2202-02-17
PERFORMANCE COMMITTEE
VINCE BUZEK: Great.
The Performance Committee will now come to order.
We are convened as of 3:00 PM.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting
to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
I will now call the roll.
Second Vice Chair Peggy Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Bobby Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Shontel Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Marjorie Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: And Chairman Buzek is here.
Other Directors in attendance, Angie Rivera-Malpiede

is in attendance.
I don't see any other Directors-so I don't think so.
Staff in attendance are plentiful.
We have Leah Riley, Jillian Knapp-Rhodes, Brandy Hunter,
my screen just moved.
Tai-Shrae Parish, Brendan Morgan, Melanie Snyder,
John McKay.
Oh, Shelley Cook is also here, Director Cook.
If I've missed anybody, I apologize.
We have all of the members of the committee
and a couple other Directors in attendance.
The first item on the agenda this afternoon
is the selection of the Committee Chair and Vice Chair.
As discussed by the Executive Committee on Thursday,
January 6, for this first meeting
I will facilitate the election, and once both seats are filled,
turn over the meeting to the new Committee Chair.

Unlike the election process, which
uses secret ballots for the election of the Board officers,
for committee leadership appointments,
we will proceed with open nominations, discussion,
and vote by the full committee.
We will begin with selection of the Chair and then Vice Chair.
We will allow up to three minutes for those Board members
who nominate a candidate, those seconding nominations if any,
and any other members who wish to speak regarding
the candidates to speak.
I will then call for a vote, and the candidate with the most
votes will be appointed.
If only one Director is nominated,
the committee may proceed by acclamation, and that Director
will be appointed.
I will start by asking for nominations
for Committee Chair.
Director Catlin?

I see your hand raised.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair.
I would like to nominate Director Shontel
Lewis for the position of Chair of the Performance Committee.
She served on the previously named General Management
Oversight Committee during the time
when we went through an interim Executive Director
and when we went through a search
for our now GM CEO Debra Johnson.
And her input and experience in that regard
were extremely valuable.
So I would like to submit her name for the nomination
with pleasure.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I'd like to second the nomination.
Do I speak now or speak later?

VINCE BUZEK: Oh, speak now or forever hold your peace.
BOBBY DISHELL: [LAUGHS] I will.
I'd like to second the nomination
made by Director Catlin.
Building on what she mentioned, Director Lewis
leads from a place of equity and is
someone who, even when the decision may not entirely
be in her favor or what she was advocating for,
takes the time to really dig in and learn and read.
And where she may not have knowledge, provide that insight
and ask that question, and really push
folks towards progress.
That's something that I admire, and I
think, frankly, it would make her
a great Chair of this committee because it requires
that interpersonal ability and the ability
to lead from a place of equity and the ability
to ask the tough questions.

And she often brings with her questions
backup and evidence of where and why the question's being asked.
So honored to submit-to second the nomination.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that.
Are there any other nominations for Chair of this committee?
With only Director Lewis having been nominated as Committee
Chair, I will ask if anyone is opposed
to appointing Director Lewis to the position of Committee Chair
by acclamation.
Seeing none, no opposition, Director Lewis,
you are the Chair of the committee.
I'll finish off with the selection of our Vice
Chair of the committee.
Do we have any nominations for Vice Chair of the
Performance Committee?
Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair.

I would like to nominate Director Dishell for Co-Chair
of the Vice Committee-- or the Performance Committee,
excuse me.
Director Dishell deals in nuance,
and I always have an appreciation for that.
He's willing to hear other points of view.
And oftentimes he and I don't agree,
but I'm always open to learning something different from him
or considering a different perspective,
and I always appreciate that lens.
He often tries to find the positive in situations,
even if I sometimes feel like there may not be one.
He is committed to ensuring that those that are most
marginalized and oppressed, that their voices are
at the center of our decision maker.
And he believes in prioritizing those that
are utilizing our services.
And I think with the new systems that we have in place

to evaluate our agency and our General Manager,
I think he'd be a phenomenal Co-Chair,
and so I nominate Director Dishell for these reasons.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that.
And in your nomination, you nominated him for Co-Chair.
Do you mean Vice Chair?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, you know I like to co-create and co-lead,
so I'm saying co-chair, but I guess
the official is Vice Chair.
[LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Let's stick with the official.
You guys can work it out however.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right.
Cool.
VINCE BUZEK: All right.
So we've got a nomination of Director Dishell
for Vice Chair of the Performance Committee.
Are there any seconds or any other nominations?

With only Director Dishell having
been nominated as Committee Vice Chair,
I will ask if anyone is opposed to appointing Director
Dishell to the position of Committee Vice Chair
by acclamation.
Seeing no opposition, Directer Dishell,
you are Vice Chair of the Performance Committee.
And at this point in time, Chair Lewis,
I will turn the meeting over to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Buzek.
Thank you all so much.
I really appreciate it.
I'm excited to chair or co-chair this committee
with Director Dishell.
At this time, the public comment period
is open, which is a new addition to our committee agendas.
And I would like to open it to anyone who would
like to address the committee.

If you wish to speak and have not already done so,
please either raise your virtual hand or-[BABY CRYING]
--press 9 on your-sorry, I have a little one-- on your phone.
The staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak.
If you dialed in, press 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process,
you are being recorded.
If you do not wish to be recorded,
then your comments will have to be submitted in writing,
and you will not have the opportunity
to speak this afternoon.
If any speaker has documentation or reference
materials for the committee, or if any member of the public
would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board office
at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.

Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names,
and the speaker will have three minutes to speak.
Do we have any speakers?
I don't know if I see Barbara here.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Dr. Lewis, this is Tai-Shrae.
I don't see anyone that has any hands up
that would like to speak at this time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Wonderful.
Thank you so much.
So with that, if we do not have any speakers,
I will close the public comment period at this time
and then hand it over to our General Manager Johnson
to go over the strategic plan survey results and the
data evaluation.
So Ms. Johnson, you have the floor.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
And first and foremost, congratulations
to you on the Chairpersonship and to Director Dishell

as the Vice Chairperson of this committee.
I look forward to working with you
all cooperatively and collaboratively.
As a way of introduction, as you all know,
this body adopted the 2021-2026 strategic plan
in August of 2021.
And in doing so, we established four strategic priorities
collectively, which are customer excellence, community value,
employee ownership, and financial success.
In order to gauge how we're performing collectively
as an organization and to create a North Star for us
collectively, in doing so we needed
to ensure that we understood where
we were functioning as an organization holistically.
And with that, it was collectively
agreed that this organization would undertake
some baseline survey data to establish how it is that we
needed to move the needle.

Moreover to that point, this Board collectively
decided to ensure that the data was statistically validated,
that we engaged Plante Moran that
serves as our financial auditing arm, that is a third party.
And in doing so, in your Board packet,
there is documentation in which Plante Moran,
pursuant to your request, validated
the statistical aspect of the survey data.
And so I wanted to ensure that you all were aware
that Plante Moran found no substantive errors
in the survey data.
So with that, I would now like to turn over the presentation
to Ehren Bingaman.
And we also have Brendan Morgan of TransPro
so they can provide this information to you in a fashion
and give you the opportunity to ask questions.
So with that, I will yield the floor.
Thank you.

EHREN BINGAMAN: Greetings.
Can everybody hear me?
SHONTEL LEWIS: We can.
EHREN BINGAMAN: Great.
Great.
I don't know if everybody remembers it as finely as I do,
but the first time I had the opportunity
to speak to this Board, my microphone kicked out
and I talked to myself for three straight minutes
without awareness.
So I'm always a little nervous when
it's microphone time for me.
It is great to be back with everybody.
It's a pleasure to see you.
And Madam CEO, thank you for that introduction.
Madam Chair, congratulations on your Chairpersonship.
We're excited to, again, be with you.
Very quickly for those of you that are observing,

not as familiar with the Board process and the strategic plan
process that Madam CEO just talked about,
everything that we're doing ties back
to what was defined in that strategic plan.
And Kris, if you did, just-or Brendan, whoever's driving, click
us ahead there real quick.
The measurement of these outcomes, the measurement
of customer satisfaction is tied very specifically-- directly
to our four areas of success.
The four outcomes defined in the strategic plan
that the Board unanimously approved last fall,
that the staff worked really hard on to compile
has four areas of success.
Community value, customer excellence, employee ownership,
and financial success.
And we defined success in this coming year
as an organization around those four areas.

And so part of that is assessing our baseline
so that we can demonstrate the effectiveness of the work
plan, the projects and things that our team will
be doing to have an impact on those success outcomes.
So everything that we're doing is about measurement
and demonstrating the effectiveness
of our performance.
So really excited to introduce you to the reporting material.
Our expectation is we would be doing this with you,
or the organization will be doing
this to make sure we're making progress towards those goals,
anywhere from a quarterly to a semi-annual basis.
So this is information we hope this body and the full Board
begins to become more familiar with as delivered
in a pattern they are used to seeing
to be able to demonstrate that progress towards the goal.
So again, everything's tied back to our strategic plan.
I just wanted to reorient our public

as well as you all to that point.
Kristopher, why don't you take us through both-I think you're going to take us through both
the customer and community survey to share some results.
We're going to do this pretty quickly.
And there's a lot of information.
It's pretty dense.
And we'll be available for questions
that you may have after.
Kris?
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Thanks, Ehren.
Good afternoon, members.
It's great to be with you.
I'm Kristopher Browning, Principal of TransPro
and the Project Manager on the survey execution
side of the house.
As Ehren mentioned, we're going to talk today
through two components.

The first we're going to focus on
is the customer experience survey.
And we'll break that down in three different modes.
So it's fixed route bus, rail, and then paratransit.
And then we'll talk about the community value survey
after that.
So first and foremost, your fixed route bus.
The most important areas of service to your customers
are fare price, route coverage, and hours of operation.
And we'll define all of these things a little bit more
as we go through the presentation.
Your net promoter score, which is one of the areas in which-is one of the definitions for your success outcome
for your fixed route service is a 38,
which is 5% higher than the industry sampled average.
The industry sampled average here for the fixed route bus
system, we use a rolling two-year average
from like similar peers around the country.

And we make sure-so that number does not stay static, right?
As other agencies are making improvements to their systems,
their customers are more satisfied or less satisfied,
their net promoter score goes up and down.
So the industry sampled average over time is a moving target.
However, it allows you to have that comparison
to how your peers are doing.
Fare price is the most important factor to your fixed route
bus customers.
However, it's also one of the factors with the lowest
levels of satisfaction.
On the rail, your fare price, frequency, and route coverage
are the most important elements of service.
Your net promoter score is a 59 compared
to two different peers, which is 74% higher than peer A
and 8% lower than peer B. So between these two peers,
you're right in the middle.

And fare price for rail is also the most important factor
for customers with one of the lowest levels of satisfaction.
For your paratransit access-a-ride service-would you like me to take questions throughout,
Madam Chairwoman?
Or would you like me to go through the whole conversation
and take pauses throughout?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm OK with you taking questions throughout.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, first of all, thank you.
I think my first question-one question, one request.
Question is I'm assuming for rail,
it would be considered light rail or commuter rail is one,
or we separate that out.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Those are considered together here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.

And then the next is sort of a request,
because I know that comparing transit agencies
is probably a little [INAUDIBLE],,
but as GM CEO Johnson says, it's like comparing apples to fish.
We are not always able to so easily compare ourselves
to other agencies, because each scenario is so different.
And so I think it would be helpful-these are helpful.
I think for me-- and I'm open to others thoughts
as well-- it would be helpful to see the net promoter
score relative just to other public agencies
within our metro area.
So how are we viewed relative to how people
view city and county of Denver?
How are we viewed relative to those others?
If that data doesn't exist, I just am thinking about while
comparing ourselves to our peers are helpful,
in our day-to-day operations, I don't know that it's--

how beneficial it is.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Dishell.
I see Director Cook and Director Buzek,
but I'm going to go to General Manager Johnson,
assuming that you might have a response to Director Dishell.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair.
And in relationship to what was said here, as we go forward,
this was creating a baseline.
This will better enable us to make informed decisions
as we look at our respective work plans
to move the needle as relates to fare price, route coverage,
and hours of operation.
So traditionally, as we looked, we
wanted to ensure that we were looking at other transit
agencies and recognizing that our transit environment is
different for all intents and purposes.
It's the comparative data from the vantage point of,
is the fare price fair and reasonable

as relates to the services that are being provided?
So I just wanted to acknowledge the comments raised
by Director Dishell and provide just some context around that.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair.
Or thank you, General Manager Johnson.
I'm sorry.
Director Dishell, was that your only question,
or did you have another follow-up?
BOBBY DISHELL: No, that's it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: So thank you.
I haven't aligned my camera.
I don't know if I'm visible.
But a couple quick questions.
Who are our peers?
Who are the peers that we're selected

to compare to in both rail and fixed route bus?
You said industry sampled average.
I assume that's a subset.
And then who are peer A and peer B,
and how were these comps selected, is my first question?
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: That's a great question.
Thank you, Director Cook.
So similar peers are-so we do mask the peers on purpose
to not identify particular agencies.
Some of the industry sampled peers
are often CapMetro, San Antonio in Texas, CATS in Charlotte,
TARTA in Toledo, MATA in Memphis, HART in Tampa.
So it makes up a good number of agencies across the country.
And for the rail, because those are similar in size and scope
agencies on the rail side, we're cautious to compare
those publicly.
SHELLEY COOK: Hmm.

I guess-- I think the committee ought to know who they are,
or maybe Plante Morann-or Moran.
However you say that.
The second question would be CEO General Manager Johnson,
do you want your rail score based upon DTO's score as well?
Because you can't really control that other than to make sure
they meet standards.
So that was a question.
Wouldn't it be better to break those out?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much,
Director Cook, for that question.
For all intents and purposes, it's
very analogous to what we do with bus.
We have a contractor that provides bus service.
And so when you think about DTO being Denver Transit Operators
or partners providing rail service,
for all intents and purposes to the person utilizing

the service, it's RTD.
And so we have a role in that.
And so to bifurcate that I don't believe
would be in our best interest going forward,
because most people aren't aware of who's
operating what services.
They just see RTD.
SHELLEY COOK: Are you able in your management work
with this to isolate-- to the extent you isolate
characteristics or features of the service that
are contributing to a score, are you
able to isolate that in case it is
one of the contractors versus RTD's own operated services?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Most definitely, Director Cook.
As we get into our specific work plans
and we look at various aspects of key performance indicators
where it relates to service delivery availability,
as relates to service disruptions, perhaps

due to security or something of the like,
we are able to drill down on a granular level
so we internally can work on moving the needle.
And that's what's incorporated into the overarching work
plans for the respective departments and divisions
within the organization.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
Thanks to you both.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook, that's all your questions?
SHELLEY COOK: That's it.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Chair-Director Buzek, you're on.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair.
And I agree with Director Cook.
I think this committee should know the identities of the peer

groups, and also what factors were used to determine
that they were peers.
And I don't need to know this now, but down the road
it would be nice to get that detail.
Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
I'm sure we can get that information from staff.
All right.
Thank you so much, Directors.
Go ahead, Kristopher.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Thank you.
So looking at your paratransit access-a-ride, on-time
performance, and drivers being friendly and helpful
are ranked as the most important elements of service.
Your net promoter score is a 49, which
is the same as the paratransit industry sampled average.
And on-time performance is your most important factor
for your paratransit customers.

However, it has the lowest level of satisfaction
among those factors.
We'll talk about the community results in a few minutes
when we get through the customer experience surveys.
Just as a reminder, I know we were in front of this committee
before we initiated this process.
Excuse me, before the GMOC Committee.
We developed the survey instrument
initially using benchmark questions that
are used across the industry.
We also added several specific questions
to RTD based on the scorecard and other key factors
that staff wanted to make sure we asked.
Our sampling and methodology, we use a random sampling structure
so that we approach the customer.
Every fourth customer that gets on the vehicle, that's
who we approach to take the survey.
So we don't allow customers to approach us and say, hey,

I want to take the survey.
We approach the customer to make sure it
is a random sample of who's riding
this-- using the service.
We completed the survey over a period of about seven days
on fixed route and rail.
And our paratransit survey was about two weeks,
and those are done via phone.
From the results analysis and industry benchmarking,
this is your baseline survey.
And what you'll see here are the results
of wave 1 compared to the industry sampled average
on the fixed route bus and the paratransit survey,
and compared to two of your peers on the rail survey.
And ultimately, recommendations.
So as we understand where we are today, we have a baseline.
We have a benchmark.
So then we begin to work with staff to understand,

what are the next steps?
Do we want to improve?
Do we want to wait on certain metrics
until we conduct the next wave of surveys
to understand whether something has moved?
So as you look at the results here,
understand that this is a starting point, not
an ending point.
The methodology we use is, as I just discussed,
we captured more than 400 surveys, a statistically valid
sample on both fixed route bus and rail for a 95%
confidence level.
And on paratransit, we collected more than 350 surveys as well
for a 95% confidence level.
So I'd like to walk you through some of the key results,
and I'm going to start with the customer characteristics.
So who are your customers?
On the fixed route bus, your customers

are most likely to be an 18 to 29-year-old
white Caucasian male earning between $25,000 and
$50,000 annually.
Now I do want to say, there is one caveat to this information.
It's that almost 40% of customers
indicated they preferred not to say what their income was.
So of those that responded, 27% of your overall customer base
earns between $25,000 and 50,000.
And you can see that's a little bit higher than prefer
not to say than others around the country
on your industry sampled average,
but it's not uncommon for us to see
a significant number of customers who choose
not to provide their income.
On the rail, your customer is most
likely to be 18 to 20-year-old white Caucasian male earning
under $25,000 annually.
And again, you can see about a quarter of customers

indicate that they prefer not to provide specifically the
income information.
So we just have to understand that when we think about
whether they're earning under $25,000 or $25,000 to $50,000,
it's safe to say most of your customers
are earning under $50,000.
For your paratransit customers, your average customer
is most-- your most likely customer is a 70 to 79-year-old
white Caucasian female earning less than $25,000
with the same caveat on the income range.
Moving on to the results, the net promoter
score and overall satisfaction.
So as I believe most of you all are aware,
the net promoter score poses the ultimate question.
How likely would you be to recommend riding RTD
to a friend or neighbor?
The way that that's calculated is we take a scale of 0 to 10,
the 0s to 6s are detractors.

Your 7s and 8s are passives, and your 9s and 10s
are your promoters.
And we calculate that taking your promoters
minus your detractors, and that leaves us
with a net promoter score anywhere from a negative 100
to a positive 100.
The concept was introduced by the Harvard Business School
back in the '60s.
And service agencies across the country
use it as a way to measure their success against other agencies.
Director Dishell, I know you asked about other agencies
local to the Denver Metro region.
We don't have that information today.
We can certainly do some fact finding
and see if we can find some of that information for you
to be able to have that comparison.
And as you can see on this list here,
how your service on the right-hand side

compares to other both paratransit agencies, fixed
route bus services, and other service agencies that you
may use on a regular basis.
As I mentioned, your fixed route bus service is approximately 5%
higher than the industry sampled average.
So you can see that there are a considerable number
of passive individuals that use the RTD system.
So 54% of promoters, 30% are passives, and 16% detractors.
For the rail, you can see that you have a net promoter
score of 59%, where you have significantly more promoters
here than you did on your fixed route bus.
68% promoters, 23% passive, and 9% detractors.
And on paratransit, your NPS is the same
as the industry sampled average at 49% with 60% promoters
and 12% detractors.
Overall satisfaction for your fixed route bus service,
81% compared to 77% of your peers, the industry
sampled average.

And in the past year, 63% of your customers
indicate that service has stayed about the same,
while 25% say the service has gotten better.
Overall satisfaction for rail, 85% of your customers in wave 1
indicate overall quality of the train service,
while 69% say the service stayed about the same.
And about that same quarter says the service has gotten better.
Overall satisfaction for paratransit,
91% of your customers indicate satisfaction,
above the industry sampled average.
We generally across the board see
higher levels of satisfaction with paratransit customers
than we do with fixed route bus or with rail.
And that's largely due to the one-on-one interaction
that a customer has with staff and the processes
and how they interact with the agency.
I'd like to introduce you-walk you through the most important factors for each

of the three modes as well.
As I mentioned at the outset, fare price, route coverage,
and hours of operation are the three most important factors
for your fixed route bus.
So as your management team takes the information from the survey
and they think about, what's going
to move the needle, what's going to drive us to be more
successful, it's largely going to be
focusing on these three things.
That doesn't mean-- I just want to be clear-- that doesn't mean
that these three areas are being performed poorly
or there are negative levels of satisfaction.
It simply means these are the areas that
are going to move the needle, that
are going to drive customers to be more likely to recommend
the service.
For your rail customers, similarly,
fare price, frequency, and route coverage.

You can see closely behind route coverage here
hours of operation at number 4.
So we really could have had a top four here,
but we just picked the top three.
So moving the needle for rail customers really
revolves around-- more so around four items
than it does for the fixed route bus.
And then lastly, for your paratransit customers,
you can see far and away that on-time performance
is the most important factor for your paratransit customers
at 267 points of the weighted score,
compared to 194, drivers being friendly and helpful.
After that, it really doesn't matter quite as much what
the other factors are.
Vehicle cleanliness, it may be doing great.
It may be doing poorly.
But if you spend all of your energy
and all your effort on vehicle cleanliness,

as you can see on the right side of your screen at 43 points,
it's not going to move the customer's needle for them
to really recommend using the service.
Before I move on, are there any questions about the customer
experience surveys?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook?
EHREN BINGAMAN: Can I pile on one thing, Madam Chair?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
Go ahead, Ehren.
EHREN BINGAMAN: Thanks.
We would hope to see in our Operations team,
the Executive team and staff start to think about strategies
wrapped around these importance factors
to continue to improve the customer experience.
That's the intent of having this important information as it
starts to influence the tactical things we
do within the organization to continue
to improve the quality of the experience

that our customers have.
All right.
Thanks for that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Ehren.
Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, this may seem like a silly question,
but words matter.
What does route coverage mean?
And I apologize.
I believe we had actually seen some of these questions.
Maybe that was a different survey.
But if you could just clarify for us,
what do you mean by route coverage exactly?
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Good question.
So route coverage simply means the vehicles go the places
I need them to go.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Anything else, Director Dishell?

Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair.
You know, I'm really interested in looking at these components
that the customers were talking about,
and that safety didn't have a much higher rate of concern.
Can you talk a little bit about when you actually did this
and where you got the data from, and how
that seems to be not a big issue when I'm hearing it really
clearly is?
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Sure, absolutely.
So just to be clear, we did, especially on the-make sure you all can see them-on the fixed route and the rail surveys,
we did truncate this list of factors.
So safety is an option for customers to choose from here.
It just does not show up in the top six of either fixed route
or rail.
We approached the customers on the--

so we are on board the vehicles as we're surveying.
And so we approach the customer while that customer
is taking the trip.
That's how we complete the survey.
To the specifics, this survey was completed
at the end of October.
And so it's been some time since it was completed.
I don't know if there were specific incidents that
have happened either before then or after then
that may contribute to some of the comments you're hearing,
but I'll let-Madame CEO may have an additional comment there.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Browning.
Director Rivera-Malpiede, if you look on package page 12,
it gives you the time frame in which the fixed route
bus and rail surveys were done.
It was October 18 through the 24 of 2021.
And the paratransit survey took place over October 4

through the 27th.
So the questions in which you're raising
are valid ones in light of the issues
in which we have been trying to mitigate collectively
with our partners, with the city and county of Denver.
So that also basically coincides with Civic Center Park closing.
So I believe that's what you were getting to.
So it was the time frame.
Because quite naturally, when we did the survey
and then did the validation of the data,
that took an additional three months.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam CEO.
I would be interested to know what routes you guys took
the surveys on as well.
Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right.
And Director Rivera-Malpiede, in reference
to the information that we provided the consultant,

we looked at the highest ridership lines
so they could really garner an understanding from those that
are utilizing the services.
And Mr. Browning may have that available,
but if he doesn't, we can double back.
But that's how it was determined.
And I believe we provided that information previously,
but we're more than willing to do it again
if that would be helpful.
So I'll yield the floor back.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
Thank you, General Manager.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
And that's all for you, Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right.

Any other Directors?
Director Catlin, I think I saw your hand.
I want to make sure you get your questions answered.
All right.
Anyone else on the Committee have any additional questions,
or those not on the Committee?
All right.
Wonderful.
Well, thank you for this presentation.
We really appreciate it.
If you all do have any questions, please-Oh, go ahead, Kristopher.
I'm sorry.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Madam Chairwoman, I'm
actually not finished yet.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, I'm so sorry.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: You're fine.
I just-- if you want me to be done, I can be finished.

SHONTEL LEWIS: No, do your thing.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: I will say to the routes that we selected,
we used your ridership data to help us understand
where we needed to get surveys.
I don't know the specific number offhand.
We surveyed on most of your routes.
Certainly, the higher ridership routes
we surveyed more heavily, because that's
where the customers are.
Again, we go to the customer, not just waiting for them
to come to us.
So we can certainly follow up with more specific
information there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
We look forward to it.
Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, follow-up on that.
So to the extent you surveyed--

your surveying was weighted toward rides or routes that
had more riders, that may also correlate with more
frequent service is my guess.
Do you adjust this frequency, how often the buses come,
according to whether the route runs frequently or not?
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: We don't-let me make sure I understand the question.
We don't ask a-we don't ask specifically, does the bus run-is 15 minutes fast enough for you.
We simply pose the statement, the bus
runs often enough for what I need.
And then the customer indicates their level
of agreement or disagreement with that statement.
Does that make sense?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
What I'm worried about is that you would be asking-OK, so let's say you asked a small number of people

who ride a route that is an hourly service,
because the ridership warrants that.
They may say it's really important,
but because they're a very small portion of the sample,
it won't emerge as an issue for them.
That's the concern I have, is how do you
get at the people who are currently operating-or they have to ride a service that's going hourly or
half hourly?
They express the concern, but it doesn't ripple up
because it's sort of swamped by people
riding more frequent services.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Absolutely.
And this is a system-wide sample.
This is not a route-by-route sample.
Certainly, there is an opportunity
to do a deeper dive on specific routes.
To be sure, even on this slide you only see the top importance

factors to number 6.
There are 18 factors, right?
So just because it means it's not on the top 6
doesn't mean that it's not important to someone.
But as the agency thinks about, what
are the things that are going to move the needle, that are going
to drive the NPS, that are going to drive toward the success
outcomes, overall it's likely going
to be around the issues of fare price, where the buses go,
and the hours of operation.
Does not minimize the individual experience
of individual customers.
But on the whole, this is what customers are saying.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that makes sense.
Director Cook, did you have a follow-up.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, just to note that to the extent
that you're sampling routes that have high ridership.
You're probably sampling mainly routes

that have frequent service.
So we're not getting insight into routes that could benefit
from more frequent service.
So that would be the concern I have there.
Sorry about that, though.
That's all, Madam Chair.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
Dr. Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just to respond
to Director Cook's question, because I
had a similar thought.
To take the inverse approach would
be to give those who are the smallest users of our service
a vastly outsized impact on survey data, right?
So it's sort of like you're stuck in between two,
because if you weighted it so that everyone
was the same, so that everyone got

the same amount of surveys-and I'm not a statistician, but I
believe you would then be weighting it-you wouldn't end up moving the needle very much,
because you would be trying to cater
to needs that aren't necessarily reflective of a broader trend.
So it sounds like maybe we need to drill down
data for some aspects, but for the whole agency,
it seems like I would rather err on this side
than err on the side of-the outsized impact side.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Dishell.
I don't see any additional hands,
so I will turn it back over to you, Mr. Browning.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Thank you.
So I'd like to turn our attention to the community
value survey.
As Ehren mentioned, this is designed as an information

system to support the community value success outcome, as well
as the financial success outcome.
Providing access to places of employment,
providing transportation options to people with special mobility
needs, such as the elderly, and providing access
to the region/adjacent counties are
ranked as the most important areas of focus
for RTD community members.
Providing access to the region and adjacent counties
is the third most important area for RTD to focus on.
However, it's the fact with the lowest impression of value.
So again, Director Cook, to your point,
this survey is conducted of people who
are not on the service, right?
This is a community survey.
We start with one-on-one interviews with key community
stakeholders to inform the survey instrument.
And then we do a statistically valid sample

through a third-party call center
that covers the entire RTD service area to make sure
we're understanding the geographic population
and what their perceptions of RTD are.
And so here, some of our customers-- or excuse
me, some of our community members have used the service.
However, others may not have.
And so this provides the balance of our customer experience
survey and our community value survey.
What is the investor of the community
or the investor of RTD?
What do they believe the value of the service is?
So thinking about that perceived value, 86% of the community
believes that RTD brings value to the greater Denver region.
Personally, 34% believe that RTD brings value to them.
I just want to make sure we pause for a minute.
In between those two, only about 12% of the community
indicates that they use the service two times a week

or more.
But 34% of the community find it personally valuable
and 86% believe that RTD brings value to the region.
So while even as an individual I may not use the system,
I still believe that it brings value to me personally
and to the greater community.
The top areas of focus for RTD, providing access
to places of employment, far and away the number
one most important factor.
Providing transportation options, again, as I said,
to people with special mobility needs, such as the elderly,
and providing access to the region and adjacent counties.
So you can see that step down there of what that looks like.
And then it really levels out towards the right side
of your screen on the most important areas to focus on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Question here.
Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.

What do you mean by adjacent counties?
Adjacent to what?
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: So adjacent to the immediate Denver area.
So the outlying areas, but the edges of the service area.
VINCE BUZEK: But within the service area.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Right.
Or it could also be beyond as well,
beyond the current service area.
VINCE BUZEK: I just wonder-that confused me, because adjacent-- we've
got eight counties in our service area.
So I mean, unless you're asking only Denver people
these questions, I don't know why adjacent counties would
have been a term used.
Just an observation.
Thanks.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Absolutely.
Thank you.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Buzek.
Additional question?
Your hand's still up.
OK.
Thank you.
Go ahead.
Proceed, Mr. Browning.
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Thank you.
And as we think about-specifically around providing access
with two of the three top most important factors being
around providing access to employment,
we think about the overall value that the community
perceives RTD brings.
67% indicate RTD brings value in providing access
to places of employment, and 51% in that connection
with other communities.
Really, that might be another way

to frame it, Director Buzek.
And only 51% believe RTD brings value
to the community in that perspective.
So as staff considers changes and potential improvements,
these are some of the areas that we
would recommend staff focus on.
So I want to take a minute and just loop this back around
to the beginning of the conversation
and our strategic plan.
The two information systems that we talked about today,
the customer experience survey and the community value survey,
tie directly to three of the agency-adopted success
outcomes, community value, customer excellence,
and financial success.
And so as we think about-- there are several components.
Step 1 is to establish a baseline, right?
What does that look like?
Step 2 is to improve.

So now that we've understood our baseline, we have our baseline,
how are we going to think about improving?
The success outcome of community value,
we have the Community Value Index as designed
by the scorecard.
So the metrics will be determined
about the right metrics to inform the baseline.
And then the management team will determine a goal,
establish the goal for the Board's consideration
as it begins to move forward this year.
Around the customer excellent success outcome,
the baseline NPS of 41% combines fixed, rail,
and paratransit NPS numbers for that baseline.
Again, the performance goal is to be set, to be established.
And then the effort is to improve by 5%, right?
And so maybe this year it's 41% with the idea to improve it
to 46% or the percent of that.
But it's really understanding, we have a baseline now.

What is our performance goal, and how are we going
to move forward to improve?
And lastly, around financial success, 50% of this outcome as
defined and adopted by the Board last August,
50% is about the actual money being spent,
and 50% is about the community's perception of how it's spent.
And so today, 50% of the community
agrees or strongly agrees that RTD manages financial
resources well.
So how do we think about improving
that perception of how RTD is using its dollars?
And so as we think about overall next steps-we've defined what success looks like through
a Board-adopted strategic plan in August of last year.
We've established our baselines through information systems
such as the community value survey and the customer
experience survey.
Now it's up to the management team

to begin to implement a plan to improve,
understanding key-- developing key activities that
will drive to success, continuing
to measure through the information systems,
and then looping back around to continue
to modify those key activities, ultimately measuring progress
through the scorecard to understand,
are we achieving the outcomes that the Board
has set as important?
And ultimately celebrate success, right?
As we work towards achieving the success outcome,
as we go along, there are certain things
to celebrate, right?
Having an NPS on your fixed route bus system higher than
the average is to be celebrated, right?
Having an NPS on your paratransit that
is at or higher than the industry sample
NPS should be celebrated.

And so I will leave you with that, that this really
ties back not just doing something here, not
just measuring something to measure it,
but to be able to take the information,
put it into the scorecard, and allow the management
team to make business decisions that are really going to impact
service, that are going to move the needle on the areas that
are most important to the customer and the community
to achieve the success outcomes.
And with that, Madam Chairwoman, I
will pass the baton back to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
I really appreciate it.
Directors, do you have any questions?
Oh, there we are.
Director Dishell, you're on.
BOBBY DISHELL: Fear not, I have a question.
The NPS score, I just want to confirm that that is weighted

in a way that reflects-I don't know if we're using revenue or service hours.
How did you weight that, given that if you
did a straight average, those are not all three equal?
KRISTOPHER BROWNING: Great question, Director Dishell.
We used the ridership data to weight that today.
That is, today, that does not mean that it is the official.
Certainly want to put this in front of you for you to see it.
And we'll work with the management team
to make sure we're using the right benchmark there.
But we did use ridership data today.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
Other Directors have any questions?
Any final words from the team?
General Manager Johnson.
All right.
OK.

Go ahead.
I see you coming off mute.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I was going to say thank you very much.
And I want to thank TransPro for their work on this
and collaborating with us.
And as we look at next steps, just
wanted to ensure that we're very transparent in relationship
to what we're doing.
As you all know, we were waiting for this baseline data.
And as we look at our individual tactics and work
plans for the department as a whole
collectively, utilizing this data to inform
our path forward, I would be remiss not
to recognize Leah Riley and Rebecca Tate who
are on the call, if you guys could turn on your camera
so the team can see you.
They have been working diligently
internal to the organization in reference

to outlining our path forward.
So I will yield the floor to Leah and Rebecca who
have done a lot of work thus far to get us primed as relates
to what it is we're doing.
So with that, I will yield the floor to Ms. Riley.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson.
It is wonderful to have participated in this today
and to finally have this information
forthcoming and available to everyone
so we can begin our earnest work internally and starting
to track our progress.
Rebecca and I have done a lot of work
over the past several months to get
the agency ready to start tracking its progress on all
of the metrics on the strategic plan, and not just the ones
that are specifically related to this report from TransPro.
We are working-- we have set up a tracking
mechanism internally, and we are working

on getting a scorecard that will be set up on our website
so we can have an external transparency
to a quarterly performance scorecard
so we can be transparent to the traveling
public about our progress, as well
as some internal dashboards so we can manage
these conversations internally with our leadership,
with the intent of moving the needle.
And Rebecca has done the yeoman's work
with a lot of the detail on this,
and so I want to acknowledge her work here with the Board.
And I will let her say a few words,
but I can say for the both of us,
we're looking very much forward to working with all of you
over this year on this effort.
Thank you very much.
REBECCA TATE: Yes, thank you, TransPro,
for the work you've done, getting us this data.

And thank you, Board of Directors,
for supporting this work.
And we are looking forward to doing some hard and good work
to improve the value we deliver to our customers
and to our community.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Ms Tate.
Oh, go ahead, Director.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, no, no.
I was just going to thank them and yield the floor back
to you.
So yes, they have done a lot of work.
The leadership team has done a lot of work.
And as we move forward, we will see how this all
comes to fruition in reference to ensuring that we are making
better connections and improving the overarching aspects
of our transit service delivery.
Thank you.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, General Manager Johnson.
Director Sloan, you have the floor.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
Yeah, I appreciate the report from TransPro.
And I just want to confirm that the ball has now
been passed to staff, that the TransPro
report, with that delivery, does not conclude the TransPro
contract at present, and now staff is taking the next
steps forward?
SHONTEL LEWIS: GM Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair.
Thank you, Director Sloan.
So yes, I'd be remiss to say that TransPro actually are here
on their own time, because they concluded their work back
in November.
And so as we look at this in earnest going forward,
basically we are working internally.
And there are going to be opportunities in the future,

quite naturally, as we look to engage, to move the needle,
and ensure that we are capturing survey
data in a way with intercepts.
It could be TransPro.
It could be another entity in which we engage.
But just to circle back on your response,
this concludes the engagement with TransPro at this juncture
with this being their last deliverable.
And I want to, again, thank them for their patience, recognizing
the holidays came [INAUDIBLE] and you
heard that they thoroughly had finished this back in October.
So thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
Any other Directors with any questions?
All right.
Well, thank you to TransPro.
Thank you to Ms. Riley and Ms. Tate

and our General Manager for your work on this.
It's fabulous.
With that, we will move on to other matters.
Do any Directors have any other matters
that they'd like to discuss?
All right.
Seeing none.
So I will work with the General Manager and her staff
to determine the next committee dates
and find a cadence for that.
And so you all will hear communication
from our Board Office regarding those dates
to schedule the remainder of those sessions
for the end of the year.
Oh, Director Buzek, it looks like you have a hand.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, just wondering
if the rest of the committee will
be consulted with regard to dates and times

for future meetings.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [LAUGHS] You know I got your back.
[LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely.
[LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Cool.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks for asking.
Yeah, sure.
No problem.
All right.
With that, if no one has anything else,
I will adjourn this at 3:57.
Any objections to it?
All right.
We'll see you all soon.
Take care.
&nbsp;

