Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
July 28, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Roy E. Davis – Supervisor, Service & Cleaning – 30 years
Special Recognition – 2015 APTA International Rail Rodeo
Rail Rodeo Operator Team Competition (RTD – 9th Place)
Bryan Coy
Christina Romero
Customer Service Event (RTD – 1st Place)
Christina Romero
Maintenance Team Competition (RTD – 12th Place)
Andre Leigh
Randall Lovegrove
Wheel Measuring Event (RTD – 1st Place)
Andre Leigh
Randall Lovegrove
Special Recognition – APTA 2015 Rail Safety Gold Award for Program Excellence
Rail Safety Team
Special Proclamation – Silver Anniversary (25) for the Americans with Disabilities Act

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Contract Amendment; 2nd Optional Year of 2013-2015 Street Improvements &
Shelter Installations Contract; # 33DM005
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second optional year of a threeyear contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with
Manion Construction, Inc. for $390,318.35. Funding for this contract amendment is
provided by the annual 2015 – 2016 Engineering Expense Budgets.

XIII.

Recommended Action
B.

Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route Service

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Interim
General Manager, or his designee, be authorized to enter into a contract with First Transit
for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit services in the Boulder and Longmont
areas. This package of service, named “Group 26”, represents the re-bid of service
currently operated by First Transit under a contracted service package named “Group 22.”

This contract is for three years plus two one year extensions for a total of five years. The
total not-to-exceed five year contract total amount is $63,168,544 for service and
$7,019,978 for fuel.
This recommendation represents the most responsive and
responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 15-DH-064 to
provide “Group 26” Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is
scheduled to be effective on January 17, 2016.
C.

US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the US 36 BRT (Flatiron Flyer) Service Plan package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A, resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $991,000
funded through FasTracks and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
D.
Resolution No. _________, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of Certificates of
Participation, Series 2015A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A.
E.
Authorization to Amend Contract with NewPush for Expansion of Smart Media
Technology Hosting Service
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to amend the contract
with NewPush to expand Smart Media Technology (SMT) hosting services to increase the
contract not-to-exceed amount by an additional $1,440,000 to a total contract value of
$1,729,500 and extend the period of performance for the current and additional services
for three additional optional years. The additional services are needed for SMT stored
value system security and high availability. Of the $1,440,000 contract value, the Board
of Directors approved $500,000 for these hosting services in March 2015 along with
other SMT items. The remaining $940,000 equates to $333,333 per year for the
remaining three years of the contract that will be funded in the 2016-2021 operating
budget.
F.
Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to
Execute a Design Build Contract and other Agreements for the Southeast Rail Extension
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached resolution authorizing the Chair of the RTD Board of Directors and the
General Manager, whether interim or permanent, or their officers or delegates to execute
grant agreements, a two phase design-build contract, intergovernmental agreements
(IGAs), purchase and sale contracts, documents evidencing property interests, and such

other agreements as are necessary or appropriate for the construction of the Southeast
Rail Extension (SERE) and to accept third party contributions and increase the project
budget by such third party contribution amounts to implement third party requested
betterments, all according to the terms set forth in the Resolution.
G.

2015-2020 Strategic Plan

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2015-2020 RTD Strategic Plan.
H.

Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the Interim General Manager’s goals for
2016 as defined in the attached General Manager’s Performance Evaluation Form.

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Old Business

XVI. New Business
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

