Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
July 28, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Roy E. Davis – Supervisor, Service & Cleaning – 30 years
Special Recognition – 2015 APTA International Rail Rodeo
Rail Rodeo Operator Team Competition (RTD – 9th Place)
Bryan Coy
Christina Romero
Customer Service Event (RTD – 1st Place)
Christina Romero
Maintenance Team Competition (RTD – 12th Place)
Andre Leigh
Randall Lovegrove
Wheel Measuring Event (RTD – 1st Place)
Andre Leigh
Randall Lovegrove
Special Recognition – APTA 2015 Rail Safety Gold Award for Program Excellence
Rail Safety Team
Special Proclamation – Silver Anniversary (25) for the Americans with Disabilities Act

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Contract Amendment; 2nd Optional Year of 2013-2015 Street Improvements &
Shelter Installations Contract; # 33DM005
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second optional year of a threeyear contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with
Manion Construction, Inc. for $390,318.35. Funding for this contract amendment is
provided by the annual 2015 – 2016 Engineering Expense Budgets.

XIII.

Recommended Action
B.

Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route Service

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Interim
General Manager, or his designee, be authorized to enter into a contract with First Transit
for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit services in the Boulder and Longmont
areas. This package of service, named “Group 26”, represents the re-bid of service
currently operated by First Transit under a contracted service package named “Group 22.”

This contract is for three years plus two one year extensions for a total of five years. The
total not-to-exceed five year contract total amount is $63,168,544 for service and
$7,019,978 for fuel.
This recommendation represents the most responsive and
responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 15-DH-064 to
provide “Group 26” Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is
scheduled to be effective on January 17, 2016.
C.

US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the US 36 BRT (Flatiron Flyer) Service Plan package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A, resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $991,000
funded through FasTracks and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
D.
Resolution No. _________, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of Certificates of
Participation, Series 2015A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A.
E.
Authorization to Amend Contract with NewPush for Expansion of Smart Media
Technology Hosting Service
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to amend the contract
with NewPush to expand Smart Media Technology (SMT) hosting services to increase the
contract not-to-exceed amount by an additional $1,440,000 to a total contract value of
$1,729,500 and extend the period of performance for the current and additional services
for three additional optional years. The additional services are needed for SMT stored
value system security and high availability. Of the $1,440,000 contract value, the Board
of Directors approved $500,000 for these hosting services in March 2015 along with
other SMT items. The remaining $940,000 equates to $333,333 per year for the
remaining three years of the contract that will be funded in the 2016-2021 operating
budget.
F.
Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to
Execute a Design Build Contract and other Agreements for the Southeast Rail Extension
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached resolution authorizing the Chair of the RTD Board of Directors and the
General Manager, whether interim or permanent, or their officers or delegates to execute
grant agreements, a two phase design-build contract, intergovernmental agreements
(IGAs), purchase and sale contracts, documents evidencing property interests, and such

other agreements as are necessary or appropriate for the construction of the Southeast
Rail Extension (SERE) and to accept third party contributions and increase the project
budget by such third party contribution amounts to implement third party requested
betterments, all according to the terms set forth in the Resolution.
G.

2015-2020 Strategic Plan

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2015-2020 RTD Strategic Plan.
H.

Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the Interim General Manager’s goals for
2016 as defined in the attached General Manager’s Performance Evaluation Form.

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Old Business

XVI. New Business
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

4.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date:

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Director

GM

Date:

July 24, 2015

Board Meeting Date: July 28, 2015

Subject:

Proclamation for Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA 25th Anniversary)

ATTACHMENTS:


2015-07-28 Proclamation for Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA 25th Anniversary)

(DOC)

Prepared by:
Vivian Morales, Board Office Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

A PROCLAMATION HONORING
SILVER ANNIVERSARY (25) FOR THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
July 25, 2015

WHEREAS July 26, 2015 marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) which was signed into law by President George H.W. Bush to provide civil rights protections to
individuals with disabilities, and access to businesses, employment, transportation, state and local
government programs and services and telecommunications, and
WHEREAS the Regional Transportation District (RTD) Denver fully supports and endorses the civil
rights provided under protection of the Americans with Disabilities Act, and RTD recognizes that
accessible transportation conducts a vital role for/within the disabled community, and
WHEREAS the Regional Transportation District was one of the first transit agencies in the country to
have a fully accessible fleet of buses, and has incorporated accessibility in all of its services and
programs, and
WHEREAS the Regional Transportation District honors the “Gang of 19” whom in 1979, Broadway &
Colfax, Denver CO., protested the lack of accessible transportation thus laying the ground work for
accessible transportation and the ADA both locally and nationwide , and
WHEREAS the Regional Transportation District continues to endorse innovative programs to step up
our efforts in support of the ADA: Hiring an experienced ADA Manager, upgrades to fixed route and
Para-transit services, input from the disabled community on rail car design, creating and supporting
numerous boards and commissions, all have been implemented to monitor, manage and maintain the
organization’s ADA compliance and reporting program that will ensure our business operations,
facilities and services are compliant with applicable state, local and federal requirements.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the RTD Board of Directors acknowledges the
contributions of the Disabled community in accomplishments, leadership and vision to promote a more
unified, diverse, and inclusive environment to move this agency and country forward now and in years
to come.
ALSO, BE IT RESOLVED that the RTD Board of Directors recognizes the 25th Anniversary of the
ADA and the Board respects, appreciates and embraces the Act as a critical part of the RTD mission to
serve all patrons.
PRESENTED THIS 28th DAY OF July 2015.

_____________________________
Charles Sisk, Chair of the RTD Board

________________________
Jeff Walker, Secretary

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: 2015-07-28 Proclamation for Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA 25th Anniversary) (2459 : Proclamation for Americans with

4.A.a

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 008 Proclamation ADA (2459 : Proclamation for Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA 25th Anniversary))

4.A.b

Packet Pg. 7

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

6.A

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

STUDY SESSION
June 30, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Present
Claudia Folska
Director, District E
Present

Arrived
5:24 PM
5:13 PM
5:23 PM
5:24 PM
5:28 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:21 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:22 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Absent
Present
Absent

5:10 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Absent
Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:34 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:27 PM

Chair Sisk and Directors Lasater and Menten were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Garrett Christnacht, Rick
Clarke, Heather Copp, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons,
David Genova, Doug Gragg, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry,
Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Michael Nabhan,
Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, John
Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch

Packet Pg. 8

6.A

Others Present:

Strategic Planning Work Session (Brian Welch)
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, explained that the Strategic Plan
Draft (Draft) Work Session was the result of months of work with the Directors. He noted
that Brian Welch, Manager for Planning Technical Services, documented the Strategic Plan
Draft (Draft) included in the June 30, 2015 Study Session agenda packet. The final
version of the document will hopefully set RTD’s direction for the next five (5) years.
Brian Welch explained that his presentation will include how the Board and staff got to this
point, what the Draft contains, and next steps.
Brian Welch reminded the Directors of the process so far:
 Staff initially met one-on-one with Directors
 P.E.S.T. Model Exercise (Political Influence, Economic Influence, Financial Influence,
Sociocultural Influence, and Technological Influence)
 Joint Board – Staff Strategic Planning Advance
 Listening Sessions with employees
 Employee Survey
 Customer Panel
 Customer Satisfaction Survey
 Final staff one-on-one round of meetings with Directors
Brian Welch noted that this process helped inform and refine the Draft as it exists today.
The seven strategies outlined in the Draft are:
 Customer Service
 Safety
 Financial Sustainability
 Equity and Accessibility
 System Optimization
 Technological Innovation
 Workforce
Each strategy includes a goal statement, a brief explanation, and initiatives.
Brian Welch added that the next steps for the Draft include refining/additional info graphics
and preparation of performance measures for each initiative if the Board approves the
document. The timeline is to present the Strategic Plan at the Planning and Development
Committee Meeting of July 14th with a proposed Board adoption date of July 28th.
Director Lubow thanked staff for their effort. She believes that staff has done great work
exploring what staff and Directors feel is important; however, she is not happy with the

Packet Pg. 9

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

II.

Dave Sachs, Jane Smith, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

context. She shared her thoughts on how the strategic plan is akin to the Joint Board –
Staff Strategic Planning Advance; she would like to see a Board retreat be part of the
process. This way the Board could take this and any other pertinent information to
discuss and flesh out what the Directors as elected officials would like RTD to look like in
five (5) years. She believes the Draft presented at the meeting is a great first step.
Director Lubow noted that affordability was not stressed enough in the document since
this has been the main need the community has expressed in the past year. She added
that the Draft mentions its commitment to finish FasTracks but there are no concrete
steps on how to do so. Director Lubow was pleased that personnel retention was
identified as a challenge since this was brought up throughout the General Manager
Executive Search Employee Listening Sessions.
Director Bagley recognized that other Directors may think that the Draft does not go far
enough; however, he sees it as a broad brush document that is not meant to be specific.
He noted that under the last bullet of the System Optimization initiatives, which reads,
“Partner with other agencies to integrate transit services throughout the State of
Colorado,” he believes RTD needs to be proactive in creating an environment where the
agency convenes the conversation with others in the Front Range and throughout the
state. He added that RTD needs to be seen as a leader in order to have other entities
discuss those types of issues with us. He mentioned the study of rail transit from Ft.
Collins to Denver Union Station as the kind of conversations RTD needs to have. He
added that these conversations need to be similar in importance to the Fiscal Sustainability
Task Force conversations.
Relating to workforce, Director Bagley said he was very pleased to participate in two
General Manager Executive Search Employee Listening Sessions: at the Platte Facility with
Director Hoy and at the Elati Rail Facility with Director Walker. He noted that these twoway conversations between the Board and employees need to happen more frequently
throughout the year in order to create a culture where the employees feel that the Board is
interested in them. Director Bagley would like to see these conversations included in the
Strategic Plan.
Director Walker thanked staff for the work. He said the Draft provides a good framework
on issues to consider regarding what the agency has to be as opposed to what the
Directors and staff want it to be. He said the Draft is vague enough to allow for the
strategies to be modified in the future without radically overhauling the plan. Director
Walker added that he would like to see a stronger emphasis on Equity, Accessibility, and
working with jurisdictions on first and last mile issues. He said that he was impressed
with the Draft since it gives room for the concepts to be fleshed out.

Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Director James appreciated staff’s great effort in putting the Draft together and the
attention to detail. He noted that he looks forward to a few changes during the next
couple of weeks. He agreed with Director Walker about giving more emphasis to first and
last mile issues. He wondered if the Strategic Plan should go beyond five (5) years in
order to truly be strategic. He questioned how technological changes could affect the way
we do business in the future. Director James said that it is a challenge to put such a
document together with so much input.
Director Francone asked staff what the purpose of the Strategic Plan is. Brian Welch
replied that the purpose is to capture in one compact document what RTD does and why.
He noted that there is not a document detailing the Board’s vision about the uniqueness of
RTD. As the District grows it becomes important to prioritize what the agency does. The
simple seven (7) strategies and goal statements will help focus the prioritization process.
Brian Welch added that Chair Sisk described the document as “aspirational”.
Director Francone said she appreciated staff’s work, including distilling all the information
after meeting with all the Board members twice. She pointed out the tension of a five (5)
year timeline for the agency and the very nature of the transit industry which works on 20
– 30 year timelines. She added that this body of Directors needed to be careful to not
bind future Boards yet anticipate the needs of future customers. Director Francone said it
is a fine first draft; however, she agrees with Director Lubow in that this type of document
is a Board document. This Board document does include public commentary and staff
input, yet it is the Board’s responsibility to sit down and go through the document and use
it as a springboard to set the agency’s direction. She emphasized her appreciation of
staff’s work on the Draft.
Director Archuleta noted that he has a background in media. One of the strategies used in
the business is to trade out advertising. He pointed out that he has never heard about
RTD in the media except when reporting a crash. He added that this type of strategy was
not included in the Draft. Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications,
said that during the next Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting staff will
give a presentation on the overarching process of marketing and branding. He added that
staff already trades advertising with radio stations and publications such as the Denver
Post, Westword, and the Boulder Daily Camera, among others. Scott Reed explained that

Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson agreed with much said by Director Bagley and Director Walker, but she
believes the Draft is too detailed. The fleshing out of the concepts could happen during
the preparation of tactical plans. She added that there are many things happening with
MAP21 that may have a dramatic bearing on where RTD goes from here. She noted that
staff hit on the top items that the Directors need to look at, particularly as it relates to
safety. She appreciates staff for listening to all the details provided by the Directors.

6.A

Director James emphasized the importance of the Strategic Plan as a reference guide for
making decisions. Brian Welch added that future Board Reports from staff could use the
Strategic Plan to reference which strategy the particular action is consistent with, similar
to the current use of tactical goals. He compared the Strategic Plan to a city’s
Comprehensive Plan; the document would be used to identify strategic pieces of our
mission. Brian Welch added that staff recommends that the Board reviews the Strategic
Plan on annual basis. The top three strategies (Customer Service, Safety, and Financial
Sustainability) may not change, but maybe the other four (4) will shift around. Director
James agreed with Director Archuleta in that there was no mention of external and
internal public communication. He added that RTD being part of conversations on
enhancing the livability of communities is important. The Strategic Plan should provide a
guide as to how much involvement and support RTD should seek in different
conversations.
Director Walker asked if any initiatives were added or deleted based on Directors’ input.
Brian Welch replied that the Draft did change from the feedback received, such as adding
technology and removing leadership from the seven (7) strategies. He added that the
Draft is meant to reflect the Board’s direction to staff. For some topics, for example,
Technology, staff went to the corresponding Department to get further details to better
address the Directors’ desires. Director Walker added that he feels the Draft is a Board
document given the amount of interaction and input, even if the final “pen to paper” was
done by staff. He pointed out that this document will ultimately help RTD guide the
budget, giving the Board of Directors an idea of what’s important and where the money
should go to reach those goals. He said that he was comfortable with the impetus of the
Draft.
Director Anderson likes the idea of comparing the Strategic Plan to a city’s Comprehensive
Plan. Cities use Comprehensive Plans as a roadmap for the future. She noted that the
City of Arvada updates its Comprehensive Plan every five (5) years, keeping the issues
broad and allowing for current leadership to flesh out the plans. She added that RTD’s
Strategic Plan could follow this example allowing the Board and Senior Leadership Team to
flesh out any strategic or other plans. Director Anderson likes staff’s work and the
incorporation of people’s thoughts and feedback. She still feels it is a little too wordy.

Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

RTD is limited by the amount of advertising space on buses and lightrail. Director
Archuleta asked if advertising trades included Spanish-language publications. Scott Reed
replied that RTD does have trade outs with Spanish-language publications. He will provide
to the Directors a list of the trades and programs the Communications Department does
throughout the year.

6.A

Director Bagley shared that, after reviewing a lot of documentation, he came up with half
a dozen major topics to discuss during his two one-on-one meetings with staff. Three of
those topics are the top three strategies of the document: Customer Service, Safety, and
Financial Sustainability. Another one, Workforce, also made it to the document. He
recalled that he did not tell staff how to do Fiscal Sustainability; he simply said that is
something to be looked at. Director Bagley believes that the process for creating this
Draft allowed for the Directors to give their opinion on critical aspects and for staff to
further develop the ideas. He called the Draft an outstanding first effort.
Chair Pro Term Tobiassen appreciated the City Comprehensive Plan comparison. He shared
his involvement in the City of Aurora, who also reviews their Comprehensive Plan every
five (5) years. He said that his objective was to improve the city and quality of life in a
fiscal way. He envisions the Draft to grow more robust as programs are measured against
it. He noticed that the bullet points and headings included in the Draft came out of the
Joint Board-Staff Advance in March. Chair Pro Term Tobiassen noted that comments from
Board members that were made throughout the process have been incorporated as well.
He added that during the General Manager Executive Search Employee Listening Sessions
he heard many of the issues listed in the Draft, which means that the Board and Staff are
hitting the nail on the head with this Draft. He looks forward to the Strategic Plan
growing more robust over time.

III.

APTA Transit Board and Board Support Seminar Update (Paula Perdue)
Paula Perdue, Executive Director of the Board Office, noted that the American Public
Transportation Association (APTA) Transit Board and Board Support Seminar (Seminar) will
be held from July 18th to the 21st in Denver. RTD and the Board of Directors are hosting
this event. She said that the purpose of the update is to help the Directors understand
what will be happening during those days as well as solicit the Directors’ support and
engagement.
She noted that Denver was selected as host due to the construction, collaboration,
partnership, and community involvement of recent projects. The theme of the Seminar is
Elevate Knowledge of Transit Dollars and Cents. Participants will be interested in finding
out how RTD has done more with less, how RTD has been able to do the things it has
done, and how does the agency work with constituents, stakeholders, and communities.

Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler agrees with some of the statements made. She thinks the Draft is
very broad. She said that the Draft presented has more of the same when it comes to
generating new revenue. She was hoping for an innovative approach, yet it seems that no
one is thinking outside the box. She added that RTD needs reliable funding and if we keep
doing the same thing we will not get new results.

6.A

Paula Perdue highlighted the following events for Directors’ engagement:
 Saturday, July 18th
o 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. – Sign up to assist in Denver information distribution
to participants. Shifts will be available in two hour increment. This will be
an opportunity to introduce yourself and welcome the participants to
Denver.
o 6:00 – 7:00 p.m. – APTA Welcoming Reception
 Sunday, July 19th
o 8:30 – 11:45 a.m. – Opening General Session and First Keynote Session.
Guests include:
 The Honorable Steve Hogan, Mayor of the City of Aurora
 The Honorable Sue Horn, Mayor of the City of Bennett and Chair of
the Colorado Metro Mayors Caucus
 Rosemary Rodriguez, State Director for The Honorable Michael
Bennet, Senator of the State of Colorado
 Rick Garcia, Regional Administrator for the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development, Region VIII, Washington, D.C., and
Keynote speaker who will address the Strategic Importance of Transit
to Revitalization of Communities and Economic Growth
o Afternoon Breakouts
 Noon – 2:00 p.m. – Director Folska will facilitate The Blind Side of
Communication. This workout will be held on the Board Support
track.
 3:45 – 5:00 p.m. – Director Bagley will be part of the panel
discussing The Board’s Role in Goal Setting and Performance
Evaluations of the GM/CEO. This breakout will be held on the Board
Members track.
o 6:00 – 9:00 p.m. – Colorado Hoedown BBQ at Coors Field. The event will
host invited speakers as well as all Seminar participants. It will be an
opportunity to relax and engage in a casual manner. Guests will be able to
participate in fun activities, including Coors Field batting cages.

Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The Seminar will have a track for Board members and a track for Board Support.
Registration is up to 150 with the expectation of 200 participants including those who
sign up at the last minute. Financing for the Seminar has been achieved strictly through
sponsorships. Director Walker, who serves as the Chair of the APTA Program Planning
Committee, is the Project Sponsor for the Seminar. The APTA Program Planning
Committee is interested in featuring the following criteria: Collaboration, Construction,
Partnership, Financing Models, Transit Oriented Development, Community Involvement,
Safety, and ADA.



Monday, July 20th
o Morning Board Member Track Breakouts
 8:30 – 10:00 a.m. – Transit as a Catalyst for Development. Guests
include:
 Tom Clark, Chief Executive officer, Metro Denver Economic
Development Corporation; Executive Vice President, Denver
Metro Chamber of Commerce.
 Troy Gladwell, Founder and Principal, Medici Communities –
Affordable Housing
 Frank Cannon, President, Union Station Neighborhood
Company
 Aaron Miripol, President and CEO, Urban Land Conservancy
 Mark Deven, City Manager, City of Arvada
 10:30 a.m. – Noon – Fundamentals of Transit Financing: Transit
Dollars & Sense. The breakout will be moderated by Director Walker.
Guests include:
 Blair Anderson, DOT Deputy Assistant Secretary for
Budget/Finance
 Marla Lien, General Counsel, RTD
 Maria Garcia Berry, CEO, CRL Associates, Inc.; Campaign
Manager for FasTracks-Sales Tax Ballot Referendum
o Noon – 5:00 p.m. Afternoon Tours for the Board Members Track. Directors
are requested to sign up for hosting tours. Part of the responsibility will be
to move people in and out of locations as the timelines are tight.
 Tour 1 –Transit Oriented Communities and Flavors of Bus Rapid
Transits (BRT). Tour will include Alameda Station, US36 BRT, and
Denver Union Station (DUS)
 Participating Staff includes:
o Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented
Communities
o Kate Iverson, Manager, Transit Oriented Development
o Nadine Lee, Engineering Project Manager, US36
o Jerry Nery, Engineering Project Manager, DUS
 Requested Director Hosts: Chair Sisk and Director James
 Tour 2 – West Line Tour – An Urban Renaissance Story. The tour
will feature light rail through a community studying safety impacts,
concerns, sound mitigations, community revitalization
 Requested Director Hosts: Director Anderson, Director
Menten, and Director Francone
 Tour 3 – Transportation Anchors: From Denver International Airport
(DIA) hub to DUS Multi-Modal Mega Center. This tour will include

Packet Pg. 15

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A



working with partners such as Denver Transit Partners and Hyundai
Rotem, unsolicited proposal discussion and tour of I-225, and light
rail travel from Nine Mile to DUS.
 Requested Director Hosts: Director Deadwyler and Director
Tobiassen.
o 6:00 – 8:00 p.m. – A Taste of Denver Union Station Reception
Tuesday, July 21st – Board Member Track
o 8:30 – 10:00 a.m. – It’s all About Advocacy: How to Engage Millennials in
Public Transportation. Session will focus on the Millennial perspective for
the next 10 years and what it will take to attract and retain that generation
as costumers.
o 10:15 – Noon – The ADA Time Line: Where We Were, Where We Are, and
Supporting Where We Are Going! This session will celebrate ADA’s 25th
Anniversary through a panel discussion. Bruce Abel, Assistant General
Manager for Bus Operations will be a member of the panel discussion.
o Noon – 1:30 p.m. – What Board Members Need to Know about the Safety
Management Systems Approach.

Paula Perdue asked the Directors to communicate with Barbara McManus, Board Office
Administrator, to sign up for Saturday’s registration and for Monday’s tour hosting. She
noted that on Monday, July 20th, while the tours are occurring, the Board Office Staff will
be presenting about Board Meeting Preparation in the RTD Board Office breakout followed
by a DUS Walking Tour/Scavenger Hunt/Poker Run. She acknowledged the work of Erin
Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant, as a member of the APTA Board Support Team
planning and coordinating the Board Support Track in addition to her regular duties at RTD.
Paula Perdue highlighted the work of RTD Marketing, Graphics, and Event Planning who
have worked behind the scenes for a year in preparation for the Seminar. That team
includes:
 Cheryl Holmes, Creative Services Manager
 Stephen Reilly, Marketing Communications Manager
 Adrian Mabry, Project and Contract Manager for Marketing
 Georgann Van Gemert, Account Executive
 Diane Borden, Senior Graphic Designer
Paula Perdue added that the marketing team created booklets for all three (3) tours in
order to assist the participants with accessible information and reference as they go back
to their respective agencies. She passed around a sample of one of the booklets.
Director Deadwyler thanked Paula Perdue for all her hard work. She told the Board Office
Staff that they can count on her for 100% support in anything they need.

Packet Pg. 16

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Director Folska called Paula Perdue “priceless”. She said that once again Paula Perdue has
blown it out of the water as she extended her congratulations to the whole team. Director
Folska offered her support in anything that the team may need. She related how at a
recent conference she attended in Saratoga Springs participants received coupons to
different local businesses as a means for sponsorships. Paula Perdue acknowledged that
was a great idea but explained that the local event planning had to conform to APTA’s
criteria.
Director Bagley noted that he has participated in many APTA tours. He said that the tour
booklet created by the marketing department makes a tremendous difference and that
APTA should step up their game for future tours. He thanked Paula Perdue and her team
for all their work. Paula Perdue commented that marketing is truly the backbone of that
booklet. She said that she gave them a vision and the product they returned was unreal;
she only had one change.
Chair Pro Term Tobiassen thanked Paula Perdue and her team for their efforts. He said
that she has his full participation. Paula Perdue reminded the Directors to please contact
Barbara McManus to sign up for specific assignments.

IV.

Other Matters
Director Anderson shared about her attendance at APTA’s Rail Conference in Salt Lake
City, UT. She noted that the last time she was in Salt Lake City their commuter rail
consisted of travel to Sandy, a suburb of Salt Lake City. Today, she explained, Salt Lake
City has an absolutely exciting multimodal system that works very well.
Director Anderson reminded the Directors that even though MAP-21 will expire on July
31st, Congress is in the process of creating new rules. This is due to the hope that it will
be extended until December 31st, 2015, or even the possibility of extensions throughout
the 2016 Presidential Campaign. She added that State of Good Repair and shared
Passenger and Freight Transit are items of discussion as new rules are being considered.
The recent AMTRAK accident has made an impression. She noted that many agencies
hoped that the deadline for Positive Train Control (PTC) installation would be extended,
but that does not seem to be the case. She said that the potential new rules on shared
track will have an impact on how RTD does business. Director Anderson added that

Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker said that he received a Seminar walkthrough from Paula Perdue and her
team. The team has worked very hard and he would like to make sure that Paula Perdue
and her team get all the recognition they deserve. Director Walker said he is really looking
forward to the Seminar. He encouraged the Directors to step up and participate as transit
agency representatives from around the nation will come to Denver to see how RTD has
handled all the recent work and partnerships.

6.A

Director Deadwyler expressed her thanks to the Communications, Marketing, and Civil
Rights departments for their participation during the Juneteenth Festival in Five Points,
Denver. She noted that the Departments came through on what was a short notice. The
RTD booth had 471 visitors and 11 people working in two hour shifts. RTD partnered
with Beverly Grant, a small business owner and participant in the I Am FasTracks
Campaign, and shared the booth with her business, Mo’ Bettah Greens. Director
Deadwyler thanked Director Archuleta, Director Folska, Director Solano, and Chair Pro
Term Tobiassen for attending the event. Chair Pro Term Tobiassen said that he could tell
from conversations that folks appreciated RTD’s participation at the event.
Director Bagley shared that he also attended the APTA Rail Conference. He said that
Director Anderson and he, along with RTD staff, accepted the APTA Rail Safety &
Security Excellence Award. He appreciated that both Director Anderson and he could
accept the award, but this was really an award for Staff. He thanked David Genova,
Interim General Manager, because if it was not for his staff the Directors would not have
an award to accept. David Genova said that the team responsible for the award will be
invited to the next Board Meeting to be recognized.
Director Bagley recommended that any Director interested in learning more about rail
transit attend the APTA Rail Conference. He highlighted the breakout titled Rebirth and
Resurgence of Streetcars in North America as a great opportunity to learn streetcar history
and see where it is headed. Director Bagley shared information on the Opening General
Session titled Where Public Transportation Goes, Community Grows. This session was
moderated by former RTD General Manager and APTA Chair Phil Washington. Panel
members talked about issues they saw when it comes to transit and community growth.
He noted that Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, participated along
with Julie Skeen, Vice President – Denver Manager of Operations for Jacobs, in the
breakout titled New Models for Public-Private Partnerships. Director Bagley noted that the
PTC deadline may not affect RTD much as it has been incorporated into all rail
construction; however, many legacy systems will be hurting if Congress does not grant an
extension because they have not been able to retrofit their systems. Director Bagley also
shared about the breakout titled Transit-Oriented Communities and Corridors and how it
contained information that many Directors may not be familiar with. He encouraged the
Directors to attend next year’s APTA Rail Conference in Phoenix, AZ.

Packet Pg. 18

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

another factor important to mention is how RTD will work with metropolitan planning
organizations as it relates to asset management and how to plan for the future. She
concluded her remarks by reiterating that some events that will happen in the next six (6)
months to a year will affect how RTD does business.

6.A

Director Bagley attended the dedication of the Elbra M. Wedgeworth Municipal Office
Building at 2855 Tremont Place in Denver. The art work on the building, including a mural
of Elbra Wedgeworth, was dedicated on June 25th. He noted that it has been a pleasure
serving on the Denver Union Station Project Authority Board, which is chaired by Elbra
Wedgeworth, as a representative of the RTD Board of Directors.
Director Lubow informed the Directors of a new organization in her District called Citizens
for the Completion of FasTracks. Their intent is to push RTD to finish the Northwest Rail.
She noted that this group is expressing something the community would like to see.
David Genova said that he gets an email notification every time Citizens for the
Completion of FasTracks collects ten (10) new petitions.

V.

Adjourn
Chair Pro Term Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 7:16 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 30, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Bagley said that during his last day in Salt Lake City he spent about three and a
half hours riding the system. He observed how the stations work, the integration of light
rail and commuter rail, and the experiment with the streetcar, which is essentially a
modified light rail vehicle that travels for a mile. He noted that it was very interesting to
see how Salt Lake City had implemented their multi modal system for the Winter
Olympics.

6.B

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, July 7, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Director Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:27 PM
4:53 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Absent

5:27 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:09 PM
5:21 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:11 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:22 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

5:32 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present
Remote

5:29 PM
5:05 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:32 PM

Packet Pg. 20

6.B

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

4:43 PM
5:21 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Gemechisa Ayana, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps,
Norene Curran, Nate Diaz, Lisa Dorrance, Terry Emmons, Nataly
Erving, Eric Farrington, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bob
Grado, Chris Harmon, Cheryl Holmes, Tina Jacquez, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Tony
McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Edin Memic, David Menter, Vivian
Morales, Brendan Morgan, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters,
Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Kevin
Steele, James Sutton, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Katrina Avellano, Josh Benninghoff, George Gerstle, Bob Kinney,
David Krutsinger, Mike Meader, Tom Peterson, Pedro Ramos, Susan
Spry, Joe Triplett, Dee Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route Service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Interim General Manager, or his designee, be authorized to enter into a
contract with First Transit for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit
services in the Boulder and Longmont areas. This package of service, named
“Group 26”, represents the re-bid of service currently operated by First
Transit under a contracted service package named “Group 22.”
This contract is for three years plus two one year extensions for a total of
five years. The total not-to-exceed five year contract total amount is
$63,168,544 for service and $7,019,978 for fuel. This recommendation
represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in
response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 15-DH-064 to provide “Group 26”
Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is
scheduled to be effective on January 17, 2016.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Sisk participated via phone. Director Deadwyler was absent.

6.B

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
reminded the Board that RTD has contracted out some of our
services for a number of years. These service packages are
labeled as “Groups” as a way for staff to keep track of
services. He said the services are in the Boulder and
Longmont areas. The service package is named “Group 26”
and represents the re-bid of service currently operated by First
Transit.
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services
noted that a Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued on May
1, 2015. RTD received four (4) proposals from First Transit,
MV Transportation, National Express Transit and Trandsdev.
The technical evaluation team reviewed and scored each
proposal based on understanding and approach as well as
experience, qualifications and safety record. The small
business office reviewed the SBE aspects of the proposals
while the procurement department provided scores for pricing.
She reiterated that scores from the technical evaluation team
were provided independent of cost. Carolyn Conover
explained that First Transit had the highest rated proposal.
Director Folska thanked staff for being responsive to the
Board’s request of including both the pros and cons for each
proposal in the Board Report.
Director Lubow echoed Director Folska’s comment. She
thought having both the concerns as well as the strengths
really helped in her analysis. She questioned the weakness
identified in the First Transit proposal of not having a
dedicated customer service representative. She wondered if
there was a dedicated person in the past. She recognized this
being a very important position but inquired if it needed to
dedicated. Greg Smith, Manager of Competitive Services,
explained that a dedicated customer service representative
was a requirement of the RFP; however, this is something that
staff will be working with First Transit Management to fulfill.
He believes it is a very important job and component of the
RFP.
Director Solano expressed his disappointment at not being able
to meet with the employees of First Transit directly. Bruce
Abel explained that RTD as an organization needs to be
extremely sensitive to the fact that while we work with our
contractors, they are independent businesses.
Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Discussion:

6.B

Committee Chair Anderson recognized that this seems like a
good contract for RTD as it will save money when compared
with operating the service ourselves.

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the US 36 BRT (Flatiron Flyer) Service Plan
package as revised and summarized in Attachment A, resulting in an
annualized cost of approximately $991,000 funded through FasTracks and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel apologized to the Board for inadvertently having an
outdated chart in Attachment A that was included in the Board
packet. The chart indicated that Express service would
operate at 15 minute frequencies instead of 10 minutes. He
noted that the narration was accurate and that the chart
would be updated prior to the Board Meeting on July 28,
2015. He asked Nate Diaz, Service Planner and Scheduler, to
review the highlights of the US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
Service Plan.
Nate Diaz reminded the Board that the goal was to create a
service plan that took advantage of the highway
improvements such as express travel lanes, transit signal
priority, queue jumps, etc. He reiterated that the main guiding
principles for the development of the US 36 BRT Service Plan

Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler

6.B

are: 1) reduced travel time, 2) improved service reliability, 3)
increase customer comprehension/ease of use and 4) match
service levels with ridership demand. It is important for the All
Station Service to have 15 minute frequencies to allow for
spontaneous use of the service.

Chair Sisk thanked all the staff that have taken part in this
exhaustive process. He hopes that RTD will continue to listen
to our stakeholders as we have been doing. He expressed
concerns about monitoring the service needs of Boulder
Junction and mid-day express service and asked staff to keep
an eye on the demand. Chair Sisk believes this will be a great
service for everyone. He said that at this time he will vote no
to keep the item open for discussion as he knows there are
people that want to speak to it at the Board Meeting.
Director Folska echoed Chair Sisk’s thanks to the staff that
worked on this. She shared that she used to ride between
Denver and Boulder sometimes multiple times a day. She
thinks it is really important to keep at least one express bus
running every hour throughout the day. She understands that
it is only an estimated 10 minute difference between the
express and all-station service, but 10 minutes makes a
difference. She asked staff to try and make mid-day express
service happen. She believes there is always a demand for
that. Bruce Abel noted that while mid-day express service has
been an ask, it is not an element in the current Service Plan.
It is staff’s perspective that all station service is only 5
minutes slower than current mid-day express service so it is
more important to have 15 minute service frequencies that
integrates the corridor. Director Folska wondered what the
point of having BRT service is if it does not get you
somewhere any faster.
Director Lubow thanked staff for the very commendable job
they have done in meeting with stakeholders and the
community. She feels it has been a very extensive process
and she is very happy with the outcome; however, she lives in
this area and it is never far from her mind that there is still no
Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bruce Abel noted that the Board members had received a
variety of correspondence from a variety of stakeholders and
constituents. He reiterated that staff included the requests
that made sense at this time and will continue to monitor the
service.

6.B

Director Francone noted that while she does not live in the
US36 area she hears about it all the time. She said that in
District N they would be delighted to have bus service every
15 minutes. She shared that at the Transportation Legislative
Review Committee (TLRC) held earlier in the day there were
several legislators that expressed similar concerns about midday express service. Director Francone thinks that staff’s
explanation sounds very reasonable so she hopes they will
reach out to the TLRC with the same information. She said
that she would like this item to remain open for discussion so
she will be voting no.
Director Solano commented on a recent article about the
dilemma with the Northwest Rail Line just looking like a pipe
dream. He is concerned that throwing more money at BRT
moves RTD further and further away from the Northwest Rail
so he will be voting no.
Director Bagley recognized why Chair Sisk was voting no to
keep the conversation open; however, he wonders what Chair
Sisk’s general perspective is of the plan being proposed. Chair
Sisk said he thinks the plan is resoundingly good. He believes
staff has done a great job of really listening to the community
while keeping in mind what is best for RTD. He stated that he
looks forward to supporting this plan at the Board meeting.
He acknowledged that there are still some questions being
asked and he hopes those will be addressed over the next few
weeks.
Director Bagley said that it is his assumption that everyone
had read the article about the Northwest Rail in the Denver
Post. He congratulated the Denver Post for hitting an inside
the park homerun with the accuracy of the article.

Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Northwest rail. It is the elephant in the room in her District.
She is concerned that RTD is not putting money aside toward
the line as a way to show people we are serious about it.
Director Lubow said that she also feels it is important for RTD
to go above and beyond in providing BRT service because they
are not getting the rail service they were expecting. She
stated that for those two reasons she would be voting no as a
protest vote but she does feel that staff has done a stand up
job with the funding available.

Director Tobiassen remembers not that long ago that RTD did
not know how we were going to get US 36 BRT done and
now it is almost ready to be opened. He noted that there are
some operational details that need to be worked out over time
but overall it is so exciting to see this done. He commented
that this is a major change for the US 36 corridor and change
is hard, but when people look back they will wonder how they
ever survived without it. He asked staff if the concern about
the bike capacity on the BRT buses had been addressed. He
feels that is a bigger concern than mid-day express service.
Bruce Abel stated that buses would continue to have a
combination of bike racks as well as the ability to utilize the
bays. With the increased number of buses per hour there will
also be an overall increase in bike capacity for the corridor.
Director Hoy thinks that staff has come up with a good plan.
He shared that he does have some concern about no mid-day
express service but he would not propose adding it at the
expense of the all station service. He believes that RTD gives
a greater number of people the option to ride when we stop
the buses more often. Director Hoy cautioned that the all
station service will ultimately be about 10 minutes slower that
the new express service. He thanked staff for postponing the
Route AB problem, at least until the Airport Line is open.
Director Hoy noted that the service plan had an annualized
cost of approximately $991,000. He wondered how that
compared to the cost today. Bruce Abel explained that $991K
would be in addition to the costs today. He pointed out that
this is an increase of at least 10% in terms of revenue hours.
Director Hoy acknowledged that there are many Directors
voting no to keep the dialog going. He said that he too was
going to vote no; however, it only takes one no vote to keep
the dialog open. He is concerned that the dialog might go
indefinitely with how many Directors will be voting no. He will
be voting in favor of the service plan as he wants to make
sure everyone gets the opportunity to talk about it again at the
Board Meeting.
Director Lasater asked for a point of clarification as he
understood Chair Sisk to indicate that he would allow public
comment during the discussion of this item in addition to the
usually held public comment period during the Board Meeting.
This would be contrary to what is normally allowed for public
comment. Chair Sisk apologized for giving Director Lasater
Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.B

6.B

that impression. He said it is not his intention to change the
Board Meeting policies at all. He simply wants to allow for
Directors to have an opportunity to speak about this again.

Director Lubow shared that there were several comments in a
letter from the City of Boulder about continuing to work
cooperatively with RTD staff to develop transportation and
partnership opportunities that really resonated with her. She
has been very impressed by the transportation in Boulder and
urges staff to continue to work with them.
Committee Chair Anderson shared that she has worked with
members of the Boulder community for a very long time on
transportation issues. She complimented staff for working
through this huge, huge BRT service plan. She cannot express
how excited she is at beginning BRT service. Committee Chair
Anderson thinks this is the launch of one of the most
fascinating BRTs in the whole country. She said that perhaps
the service will not be perfect on opening day, but staff will
monitor it and work hard to make it outstanding. She
recognized staff’s dedication to making this a first-class BRT.
She believes that it would be a travesty for the Board to not
approve this service plan because of all the years that people
have put in to make this dream come true.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 4]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Judy Lubow, Chuck Sisk, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

 Fare Task Force Update (no backup)
Bruce Abel explained that staff has continued to evaluate the pass programs
since the Board approved the new fare policy structure and rates. They also

Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker stated that he would be supporting this
service plan. He reminded everyone that staff adjusts
schedules every three months, so changes can be made as
needed.

6.B

Director Folska noted that at the Transportation Legislative Review
Committee (TLRC) meeting one of the representatives inquired about the
structure of the affordable fare task force (i.e. is it ad hoc, when will it
disband, who makes up the committee, etc.). She asked if staff could
provide the Board with a better understanding of the task force so they
could better explain it themselves. Bruce Abel said there were some
questions he could not answer, such as how long it will exist. He explained
that it consists of a variety of public and non-profit entities. He said he
would provide the Board with a full membership list.

 2016 Pre-Opening Campaign - Rail and BRT (no backup)
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, said that staff
wanted to provide a high level overview of the campaign process for all the
2016 grand openings. He explained that one of the goals of the campaign
was to create an initial impression that something big is coming. The
campaign will provide on overall focus on the progress RTD is making on
FasTracks as well as focus on the individual corridors as they open. He
reiterated that the closest any other openings have been was one year apart
so this will be the shortest timeframe RTD has ever had between openings.
Steve Reilly, Marketing Communications Manager, explained that
marketing’s jobs is to create awareness and excitement about our new lines
all while educating people about schedules, how to ride, safety, etc. He said
that the US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) service, which is the first corridor
that will be opening next year, really has an interesting construct as the
vehicle will really be the star of that campaign. Staff began by just
introducing the vehicle but are now really starting to highlight the opening
date and attributes of the service. Steve Reilly said the next big push will be
in July and August with the opening of Boulder Junction and then will
continue to ramp up as we build to opening.
Scott Reed thanked the stakeholders who worked with us on the design of
the Flatiron Flyers. He commented that when we first started this process
he could only think of the saying that a camel is a horse designed by a
committee; however, the process with the stakeholders was really great and
resulted in a wonderful design. Steve Reilly echoed Scott’s sentiments. He
shared that it was a two year process but generated a very unique and
innovative look for the vehicles while still being in-line with RTD’s brand.
Steve Reilly said the next thing the marketing department is working on is
the commuter/light rail pre-campaign. He shared that right now the
Packet Pg. 28

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

are continuing to review the non-profit agency program reduced fare
program with the affordable fare task force. He said that staff anticipates
coming back to the Board next month with a more substantive presentation.

6.B

Steve Reilly shared that the last marketing effort staff had worked on was
revamping the existing RTD FasTracks website. It really incorporates the
overall marketing efforts as well as spotlights important aspects of each
corridor with their own page.
Director Folska shared that she had two ideas that came to her as she
listened to the presentation. The first was as a result of some feedback the
Board received during a recent focus group session. She suggested as we
move forward perhaps partnering with CDOT on a billboard campaign with a
slogan along the lines of “if you are tired of sitting in this congestion get on
the train”. She said that another idea might be to partner with a craft
brewery along the corridors to make a commemorative beer/label for the
openings.
Committee Chair Anderson believes there is actually a brewery in Arvada
that has a Gold Line Beer.
Director Lasater asked what line is the B-Line. Scott Reed said this was the
first segment of the Northwest Rail Line up to Westminster.
Director Archuleta commented that during the entire presentation he heard
no mention of doing anything in Spanish. He expressed concern as that is
such a big audience. Scott Reed explained that the ads are running in
several Spanish magazines. He said that Spanish translations of all our
marketing materials, schedules, maps, etc. are a key component of our
overall marketing strategy. Steve Reilly noted that we do not have the
literature yet for widespread distribution but when we do Director Archuleta
will be able to see the Spanish versions.

 Intercity Commuter Express (Bustang) (no backup)
Bruce Abel introduced David Krutsinger, CDOT Project Manager, and asked
him to review the highlights of the upcoming Bustang Bus Service.

Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

marketing team has a window of opportunity being between BRT events so
they have been working on something to help people understand what is
coming and how it will affect them. One of the goals is to get people
educated about the line designations. He stated that the team has been
playing with the concept of size in developing the campaign since this is
such a monumental undertaking for RTD. Additionally, they have worked
with circles to convey motion along with the specific letter and color
designation for each line. He shared that the ads are running in community
publications such as Westword and the Denver Post, online and on our
vehicles as well.

6.B

Director Lasater noted that as a parent of a Colorado State University
student is would be nice if there was one trip coming to Denver on Saturday
and a trip returning to Fort Collins on Sunday. He encouraged CDOT to
work with CSU to see if there might be some indicator that this service is
warranted.
Director Bagley congratulated CDOT in their efforts to provide intercity bus
service. He believes this is a tremendous addition to the service provided by
RTD. He recognized how important the collaboration is between CDOT and
RTD.
Director Menten asked who manufactured the Bustang buses and wanted to
confirm that RTD was not contributing to this service financially. She also
wondered what contractors provided this service prior to CDOT beginning its
offerings. David Krutsinger stated that MCI manufactures the buses and all
funding for the service comes from the State. He explained that the
Bustang Bus Service was designed to complement the existing service
provided by private contractors in the corridors and does not complete with
them. Director Menten asked for confirmation that CDOT believes these
corridors were not served previously and that CDOT is not competing with
the free market. David Krutsinger said that was correct.
Director Folska shared that when she participated in one of the inaugural
rides she found the bus to be so stunning and comfortable. She is very
excited she can now travel to Fort Collins on her own. She agreed with
Director Lasater’s point that there will be no service to Fort Collins on
Sunday. Director Folska thought it would be very grand if there could be
some tours scheduled with the TLRC. She noted Representative Kraft
Thorpe was curious how the funding CDOT dedicates for transportation was
allocated. Interim General Manager Genova thought the question was
related to Senate Bill 228 funds. David Krutsinger explained that Senate Bill
228 funds have 10% designated for transit. The projects that CDOT’s
Transportation Commission considers are throughout the State, including
collaboration with RTD. He noted that the list of projects was not final so
there was still an opportunity for discussion. Director Folska hopes that
CDOT can share that information with the TLRC members. She shared that

Packet Pg. 30

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

David Krutsinger shared that beginning Monday, CDOT will operate six round
trips per day to Fort Collins and Loveland, seven round trips per day to
Colorado Springs, and one round trip per day to Glenwood Springs. He
thanked all the Board members for their support of the service and
participation in some of CDOT’s preview events. He also thanked the RTD
Service Planning and Legal departments for their assistance in making this
service possible.

6.B

she loves the collaboration between CDOT and RTD on a whole host of
different activities and thanked David Krutsinger for being here this evening.
David Krutsinger thanked the Board for their time. He looks forward to
making more connections and furthering collaboration across the State. He
said he would take Director Folska’s suggestion from earlier in the evening
about the CDOT billboards back to his team.

Interim General Manager noted that periodically the Asset Management team
provides the Board with updates. He introduced Jim Sutton, Manager of
Asset Management, and Lou Cripps, Asset Management System
Administrator, who reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that
is available in the July 7, 2015 Operations and Customer Service Committee
Agenda Packet.
Jim Sutton explained that Transit Asset Management is a strategic and
systematic process through which RTD procures, operates, maintains,
rehabilitates, and retires transit assets. The purpose is to manage the
asset’s performance, risks and costs over the lifecycle to provide safe, costeffective, and reliable service to current and future customers. He noted
that per MAP-21 requirements agencies will be required to provide the FTA
with a Transit Asset Management Plan (TAMP), asset inventories, condition
assessments, performance metrics, backlog information, State of Good
Repair (SGR) score reports and comparisons year to year. He said that RTD
is compliant with the current rules.
Director Francone inquired as to the definition of backlog. Jim Sutton
defined backlog as any asset considered not in a State of Good repair with a
score of 2.5 or lower on a 5 point scale. That is when an agency needs to
decide if an asset should be replaced or repaired. Interim General Manager
Genova noted that the FTA estimates that backlog across the nation is
approximately $86 billion in assets so it is a very considerable amount. He
stated that the good news is that from the assessments done so far we do
have some sub fleets with lower scores but all those fleets are either in
replacement or scheduled for replacement soon.
Director Francone asked for a copy of the Asset Management State of Good
Repair Annual Report. Jim Sutton said that it was not yet finalized but staff
would send to the Board when it was ready. He anticipates this will be
within the next few weeks.
Director James pointed out that there seems to be a trend with in-service
delay hours increasing. He wonders what staff is doing to address this. Jim
Sutton commented that there seems to be a cyclical trend for this metric.

Packet Pg. 31

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Asset Management and State Of Good Repair Presentation

6.B

Director James inquired if he was correct that the Asset Management
program started prior to MAP-21. Jim Sutton stated that was correct. At
the 2010 Board and Senior Leadership Team Advance this was established
as a goal for the General Manager. He explained that it was started as a
pilot program that was then accepted as a long term department. Director
James said it sounds like what generated this program was in part a
mandate by the FTA and in part good common sense. Jim Sutton agreed
with that assessment. The Board and Senior Leadership Team saw a need
for this type of program. When the regulations were established there were
some changes from the initial plan but overall RTD had a good start on the
program.
Director Bagley stated that the issue of State of Good Repair is critical
because it relates directly to safety which is RTD’s number one priority. He
shared that Director Anderson and he were just in Salt Lake City at the
APTA Rail Conference and they have a number of sessions on State of Good
Repair. He noted that RTD is very lucky because our rail system is relatively
new; even though we may need to update some things we are way ahead of
the older systems, especially as it relates to Positive Train Control. Director
Bagley said he was recently in Boston and they can no longer get parts for
their trains so they must manufacture everything themselves. Director
Bagley reiterated that safety and State of Good Repair is critical.
Director Hoy wondered if staff’s analysis would ever allow for a macro view
of buses or light rail vehicles to determine that perhaps some of the older
vehicles are actually performing better than newer ones. He said it is his
experience that the oldest truck is not necessarily the worst truck. Jim
Sutton stated that it was absolutely possible to get to that granular level.
The data will be used to pick the worst offenders to retire first.
Director Folska thanked staff for their detailed report. She pointed out that
the system staff is using for managing the Asset Management Plan is one
that was build in-house. She wondered if staff had thought about applying
for a patent to license to other transit agencies. Jim Sutton said that staff
extending an invitation to other agencies to come and look at our system but
Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Research shows that the cause is coming from assets that are scheduled to
be replaced. As there are large groups of rolling stock that move into end of
life the in-service delay hours get worse. As the new assets come online
these delays should decrease. He said that the Asset Management team
also works with the Maintenance divisions to see if there are any underlying
causes that can be addressed. Lou Cripps stated that to staff’s knowledge
there are no other transit agencies currently trying the impact of an asset’s
score on ridership. He shared that staff recently presented on this at the
APTA rail conference and were approached by the FTA about the program.

6.B

staff had not considered patenting it. Director Folska hopes that is
something RTD will consider. The agency needs to look to create other
revenue sources. She asked why we should give something away if we can
make money from it and further support our State of Good Repair.
Committee Chair Anderson expressed how proud she was of staff at the
APTA Rail Conference she attended. It was clear how much our staff is
looked upon because of their hard work. She is very excited about our
Asset Management program because she thinks it will help RTD make better
decisions in the future on where to spend our scarce resources.

Bruce Abel stated that the report was included in the July 7, 2015
Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet. He suggested
taking question during the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Meeting when the 2015 First Quarter Performance Measures were reviewed.
There were no objections.

• Access-a-Ride/Cab 2015 1st Qrt. Report
Bruce Abel stated that the report was included in the July 7, 2015
Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet. He suggested
taking question during the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Meeting when the 2015 First Quarter Performance Measures were reviewed.
There were no objections.

• Special Services 1st Quarter Report
Bruce Abel stated that the report was included in the July 7, 2015
Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet. He suggested
taking question during the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Meeting when the 2015 First Quarter Performance Measures were reviewed.
There were no objections.

• 1st Quarter 2015 Customer Complaint Analysis
Bruce Abel stated that the report was included in the July 7, 2015
Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet. He suggested
taking question during the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Meeting when the 2015 First Quarter Performance Measures were reviewed.
There were no objections.

• 1st Quarter 2015 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
Bruce Abel stated that the report was included in the July 7, 2015
Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet. He suggested
taking question during the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Meeting when the 2015 First Quarter Performance Measures were reviewed.
There were no objections.

Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• 1st Quarter 2015 Contracted Fixed Route Quarterly Report

6.B

D. Other Matters

Director James shared that he attended the Transportation Legislation Review
Committee briefing along with several other Directors. He thought Chair Pro Tem
Tobiassen and Interim General Manager Genova gave a terrific update. He said it
was very educational and encouraged other Directors to consider attending in the
future.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 11, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 7:39 p.m. to the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker reminded everyone that the APTA Transit Board Member and Board
Support Seminar would be taking place in 11 days. He said that as of July 1 there
were 157 registered attendees, which is more than in the last 10 years. He
recognized Paula Perdue and the marketing staff for all of their efforts; thanks to
them the conference is really going to be amazing. Director Walker hoped the
Board Members had their assignments and were ready to show off what RTD has
done. He shared that he and Paula Perdue did a dry run of some of the tours and
they all look very good. He stated that this is looking like it will be a very
successful conference.

6.C

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, July 7, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Director Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 7:46 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

7:46 PM
7:44 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

7:47 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

7:49 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

7:46 PM
7:46 PM
7:45 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

7:44 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

7:45 PM
7:45 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Committee Chair

Present
Present

7:45 PM
7:39 PM
Packet Pg. 35

6.C

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

7:41 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Gemechisa Ayana, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps,
Norene Curran, Nate Diaz, Lisa Dorrance, Terry Emmons, Nataly
Erving, Eric Farrington, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bob
Grado, Chris Harmon, Cheryl Holmes, Tina Jacquez, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Tony
McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Edin Memic, David Menter, Vivian
Morales, Brendan Morgan, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters,
Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Kevin
Steele, James Sutton, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Katrina Avellano, Josh Benninghoff, George Gerstle, Bob Kinney,
David Krutsinger, Mike Meader, Tom Peterson, Pedro Ramos, Susan
Spry, Joe Triplett, Dee Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• Resolution No. _________, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of
Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District
Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager for Finance and Administration, explained that the
Resolution provides for financing of up to $230,000,000 for
vehicles and related equipment as anticipated to be financed in
the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). The vehicles included in this
financing are 40’ transit buses, 60’ articulated buses, ADA
cutaway vans, mall shuttles, and light rail vehicles. The Board
is being asked, through the Resolution, to authorize the
issuance, to establish the parameters and to approve
agreements required in connection with the issuance of the
certificates. She noted that the certificates will be
Packet Pg. 36

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Sisk and Director Deadwyler were absent.

6.C

underwritten by a team including Wells Fargo, Stifel Nicolaus,
Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, US Bancorp, and Harvestons
Securities.

Director Solano expressed his concern about manufacturers
listed as “to be determined” for the mall shuttles given the
past history of the previous vendor not being fiscally viable
and the uniqueness of the vehicle needed for the mall.
Heather Copp replied even though the manufacturer for the
mall shuttles is listed as to be determined on the Board Report,
staff is currently reviewing two proposals and will be ready to
present a recommendation to the Board during the August
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting.
Director Folska wondered what exactly is the difference
between a CoP for rolling stock and for the North Metro rail
line. Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager for Debt and
Investment explained that the CoPs are used as a financial
source for construction.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 3]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

• Authorization to Amend Contract with NewPush for Expansion of Smart
Media Technology Hosting Service
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee
to amend the contract with NewPush to expand Smart Media Technology
(SMT) hosting services to increase the contract not-to-exceed amount by an
additional $1,440,000 to a total contract value of $1,729,500 and extend
the period of performance for the current and additional services for three
additional optional years. The additional services are needed for SMT stored
value system security and high availability. Of the $1,440,000 contract
Packet Pg. 37

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Hoy wanted to confirm that the process described by
Heather Copp is the same process used for prior Certificates of
Participation (CoP). Heather Copp confirmed that it was the
same process.

6.C

value, the Board of Directors approved $500,000 for these hosting services
in March 2015 along with other SMT items. The remaining $940,000
equates to $333,333 per year for the remaining three years of the contract
that will be funded in the 2016-2021 operating budget.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager for Finance and Administration, explained that staff
considered the pros and cons of three options: RTD hosting,
Xerox hosting, and Third-Party hosting by NewPush. After
reviewing the options, staff concluded that an RTD hosted
system would be too expensive and out of the agency’s
scope. Staff also concluded that a Xerox hosted system
would be too expensive without providing the desired level of
service. NewPush is the current host of the SMT websites
and banking servers under an existing contract that is
proposed for expansion by this Board action. Staff
understands that NewPush has hosting expertise but not
expertise for SMT applications. RTD will be responsible for
managing applications and Xerox will be required to assist in
the migration.
Director Bagley noted that it is critical to move this action
forward. He added that by the time this action is approved it
will be July 28th and this system needs to be ready by January
1st, 2016.
Director Lasater said he was a little perplexed by some of the
comments during the presentation. He shared that his
personal business provides hosting services in a secure,
Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliant environment. He
wonders why RTD cannot do the same without such an
expensive price tag. He added that a hosting service just
makes sure that the data is there and if one of the hard drives
goes down another one is there for support. He asked if the
hosting would be a cloud based system and for a justification
on the price tag. Eric Farrington, Information Technology
Program Manager, explained that the total extension price of
$1,440,000 is for four (4) years total. He added that RTD
does not have a PCI compliant system, staffing, or the cooling
and electrical capacity required at the data center to do this in
Packet Pg. 38

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

house. He noted that the cost of RTD hosting this system
would be much higher than using NewPush. Director Lasater
wondered if Xerox is supposedly building a well-designed
system why RTD could not train current staff to maintain it
avodiding $400,000 hosting charge. He said his company,
which is significantly smaller, maintains its own hardware. He
shared his concerns regarding the IT Department’s inefficiency
on this matter. Heather Copp pointed out that the Colorado
Department of Revenue, where she worked for almost four (4)
years as the Deputy Executive Director, outsourced this type
of service and that the annual $333,333 for the last three
years of the extension on this contract is considered a bargain
in the industry.
Director Francone asked if there was a hosting fee already
included in the Xerox contract. She wanted to make sure that
RTD will not be paying twice for the same service. Eric
Farrington replied that there was some money included in the
contract for this item; however, the contract does not include
the extent of service needed: production, test, and disaster
recovery. Verbal conversations with Xerox indicated an
estimate twice the price of NewPush. Eric Farrington
concluded that Xerox has not been paid for this part of the
contract, nor would they.
Director Solano shared his concerns about IT infrastructure
and security. He mentioned the recent Car-to-Go breach of
security which resulted in a deadly drive by shooting. He
wondered how spending money on extending this contract
would increase RTD security. He questioned how this
contract would protect RTD in the case of a possible
partnership between RTD and Car-to-Go when dealing with
first/last mile issues. Eric Farrington replied that NewPush
would have a PCI system, firewalls, and other security
measures. He noted that security is increased by having the
information hosted by a third party and not RTD. The third
party will be subject to external PCI compliance audits. He
pointed out that no system is bullet proof; however, the
proposed system would provide for better security than if it
were hosted internally.
Director Folska asked what migration entails. Eric Farrington
replied that the cost of migration includes the first year of
hosting, which will expire on February, 2014. The migration
consists of moving the currently RTD hosted services
(EcoPass, CollegePass, Neighborhood Pass) from the RTD
Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.C

6.C

Committee Chair Tobiassen shared his experience on the E470 Board. That entity processes millions of transactions a
year through credit cards and web portals. They have about a
dozen operators handling calls yet they do not process
anything in house. Last year E-470 underwent a PCI audit to
ensure that no customer center call operators were writing
down anyone’s personal information. He said that if E-470,
and in this case, RTD, does not have that information we are
not vulnerable to leaking it to the world. He pointed out that
the $333,000 a year for this kind of infrastructure and
security system seems like a bargain.
Director Bagley thanked Committee Chair Tobiassen for his
comments.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Technical Update on Drug & Alcohol Policy (Copp, Memic)
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager for
Finance & Administration, introduced Edin Memic, Manager for Substance
Abuse and Office Services. Heather Copp noted that the last Drug and
Alcohol Policy update was approved in 2013. In an effort to maintain
compliance with the Department of Transportation and Federal Transit
Administration rules and regulations, RTD made the changes to the Drug and
Alcohol Policy as included in the Financial Administration and Audit
Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

servers and system to the NewPush system. Director Folska
wondered if everything would be integrated by the time we go
live on January, 2016. Eric Farrington said that everything
will work together: bus readers, handheld readers, light rail
platforms, etc. Director Folska asked if there would be a beta
testing period. She also wondered if there would be any
penalties on NewPush for failure to deliver. Eric Farrington
answered that the beta testing will happen this fall. He said
that staff is currently working on the NewPush scope of work
and could add penalties for failure to deliver to the document.

6.C

Committee agenda packet for July 7, 2015. All changes are technical and
regulatory in nature and do not affect negotiated terms with ATU 1001.
There was no further discussion on this update.

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager for
Finance & Administration, introduced Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager for
Budget and Financial Analysis. Heather Copp explained that of the 23
measures tracked 19 goals were met. The four exceptions were:
 System-wide on-time performance
 Level of customer complaints
 ADA on-time performance
 Bus operator/mechanic headcount authorization.
She referred the Directors to the Board Report included in the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee agenda packet for July 7, 2015 for a
full explanation of the four exceptions and a full listing of all the measures.
There was no further discussion on this update.

• Enterprise Content Management Update
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Assistant General Manager
for Finance & Administration, introduced Susan Cohen, Senior Manager for
Finance and Enterprise Content Management. Susan Cohen reviewed the
Enterprise Content Management (ECM) presentation as included in the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee agenda packet for July 7,
2015. The presentation included an ECM Project Overview, Background,
Assessment Results, Project Benefits, Financial Considerations, Project
Scope, Owners Representative, Project Cost, and Project Schedule.
Director Anderson thinks that an ECM system is a good idea given the
amount of documents generated at RTD. She recalled her experience in one
of her first jobs when a document got lost and it was not clear where the
repository was. She thanked staff for the presentation.
Director Folska found the presentation fascinating. She thinks it is exciting
to improve efficiency and productivity while reducing costs. She noted that
information and technology are a huge component of the Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP) and that $10 million for the initial implementation of an ECM
system for an agency like RTD seems more than reasonable.
Director Folska wondered if the RouteMatch software used by paratransit
costumers could be a bit more intelligent and recognize landmarks. Heather
Copp replied that Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations,
would have more information on that software. She added that the ECM
update being presented to the Board has to do with documents and paper
Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• First Quarter 2015 Performance Measures

6.C

files being archived in one repository with a consistent naming conversion,
not specific applications used by RTD.

Director Solano expressed his reservations over the dollar amount. He
recalled his experience working in the Telecom industry and from his
experience these numbers are huge. He asked what kind of system would
serve as back up. Heather Copp replied that the scope of work will include
a disaster recovery system as well as meet functional and business
requirements. She added that the current estimate assumes in house
hosting for documents and outside hosting for disaster recovery. Staff does
not have specific details on any package. Director Solano commented that it
is important to know the backup costs before moving forward. He shared
that in the Telecom industry if a system goes down without a backup the
loss would be in the millions range, and for RTD that would mean accidents
if it involves buses or trains. Heather Copp answered that the only
applications that will be hosted through this project are the document
management applications: everything that is stored on laptops, hard drives,
file cabinets, etc. The goal of this project is to store all documents in one
repository where everyone could have access to them. She shared that
during her time as the CFO of the Southern California Association of
Governments, the document management system used there forced users to
save documents in a specific place utilizing a specific naming convention,
authorizing access and restrictions, etc. Susan Cohen added that FasTracks
currently utilizes Aconex as its document management system. They have
back up servers in 3 continents with 24/7 support, something that RTD
could not provide in house. Heather Copp reiterated that the $12.9 million
figure includes disaster recovery. Marla Lien, General Counsel, pointed out
that this is not a new project or funding matter. She added that RTD is
mandated by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to have a document
management system.
Director Francone asked if the hosting will be in-house at RTD or not.
Heather Copp replied that the funding estimate is based on in house funding;
however, staff will not have those facts until the Request for Proposal (RFP)
process.
Director Lasater wondered what will be used as the technology and
hardware for the project. Susan Cohen replied that part would be
determined in the evaluation process. Director Lasater expressed his desire
to have that information as staff gets closer to that part of the project. He
Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow shared her experience working in large bureaucracies for
long periods of time and her understanding of the frustration caused by lost
documents; however, she feels that spending $15 million on improving
documentations seems like a lot of money. She added that she does not
work in that specific field, so she may not be aware of the real costs.

6.C

Director Hoy said that he would be interested in future information on the
cost versus savings of the ECM project. He added that this type of estimate
is based on elusive dollars. He referred to Marla Lien’s earlier comments and
asked if the $12 million dollars are spread out through the SBP. Susan
Cohen replied in the affirmative, reiterating that $10.3 million is the estimate
for the initial implementation and $2.6 million for ongoing maintenance.
Director Hoy wondered if RTD would end up spending more money once the
system is implemented. Heather Copp replied that staff will take a look at
those estimates.
Director Walker thanked staff for the work. He recalled a time in his career
when he spent a lot of time looking for referenced documents and how
those costs add up quickly.
Director James thought that it was a great presentation. He referred to
Director Hoy’s comment and suggested staff put together a document that
would address incremental costs and net financial gain at a macro level as it
relates to ECM. Heather Copp said that staff will create a document
addressing this matter.
Director Bagley encouraged staff to include a chart in the September ECM
presentation in order to make it easy to read and understand.
Committee Chair Tobiassen shared that he worked for records retention in
the Internal Revenue System (IRS). A few years ago, by mandate of Federal
law, the IRS had to release 50 years’ worth of documents. He said that the
struggle was with the hard copies. He noted that this type of project will
have to be done sooner or later and that in the long run it will save a lot of
money by consolidating the storage location.

• May 2015 Monthly Financials Status Report
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Assistant General Manager
for Finance & Administration, introduced Doug MacLeod, Controller. He
reviewed the May 2015 Monthly Financials Status Report as included in the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee agenda packet for July 7,
2015. He handed out an updated Sales and Tax Use chart as the one
included in the packet was based on estimated values. He noted that all
items, Sales and Use Tax, Ridership, and Fare Revenue, were lower than
budgeted. He added that May, 2015 had one less business day than May,
2014, which may contributed to the final numbers.
Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

recalled the big debate when E-470 was going through a similar process. He
shared that at that time he was more in favor of a hard drive. With newer
technology, he recommends a better media back up process, similar to a
memory stick. He added that redundancy is critical when it comes to
disaster recovery.

6.C

Director Bagley pointed out that the Meet in the Street events are on
Sundays, while the Mall Shuttle ridership is predominately during the weekly
commute. He expressed his concern over the May 2015 Monthly Financials
Status Report. He encouraged staff and the Board to keep an eye on the
report during the next few months as this would give a fuller picture.
Director Bagley added that the Sales and Use Tax is a critical component of
the budget. He encouraged the Directors to be very thoughtful as the next
reports become available.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley provided a brief update on the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee meeting earlier that afternoon. He
recognized Directors Anderson, Francone, Hoy, Menten, and Walker as members of
the committee. The committee met two weeks ago and asked David Genova,
Interim General Manager, to make minor modifications to the tactical plans for the
specific categories identified at the March 21 Joint Staff/Board Advance, which
include fiscal sustainability, technology, and 2016 openings. During today’s
meeting the committee approved the modifications presented. Paula Perdue,
Executive Director of the Board Office, will prepare a report that will be distributed
to the Directors for review. He reminded the Board that these plans have
implications on the Strategic Budget Plan and the 2016 Budget. Director Bagley
thanked the committee members for their work.
Director Solano thanked the Directors for the flowers sent to his mother’s house
honoring the passing of his father. Committee Chair Tobiassen offered Director
Solano condolences on behalf of the Board.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 11, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:53 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 7, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska wondered how the Meet in the Street events, spread out
through 5 Sundays during the summer, impact the rest of our system as the
Free Mall Ride shuts down during the event. Heather Copp replied that
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, said his staff
would provide that data.

6.D

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, July 14, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:30 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:24 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

4:58 PM
5:10 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:07 PM
5:23 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:19 PM
5:32 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:20 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:18 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:30 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:08 PM
5:20 PM
Packet Pg. 45

6.D

Director, District D

Present

5:26 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Baudermann, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Heather Copp, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Anthony Forrester, David Genova,
John Gonzales, Cory Granrud, Nate Herman, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Tony McCaulay, Robin
McIntosh Jr., Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales,
Andy Mutz, Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters, Scott Reed,
Steve Reilly, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Karen Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Liz Telford, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch, Susan Wood,
C. Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Greg Barber, Chris Barker, Barbara Brodman, Sarah
Camacho, Sarah Clark, Karen Creamer, Jane Donovan, Joni Goheen,
Art Griffith, The Honorable Jim Gunning – Mayor of the City of Lone
Tree, Sherman Hamilton, Scott Hoffman, Eugene Howard, Negar
Karimi, Kelley Kneib, Anders Lindgren, Frank Marigold, Julie McCabe,
Lorna Moritz, Roger Partidge, Joe Reed, Dave Sachs, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Karen Stuart, Arleen Taniwaki, Gary Van
Dorn, Molly Vega, Megan Wagner, Roger Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager
to Execute a Design Build Contract and other Agreements for the Southeast
Rail Extension
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the Chair of the RTD
Board of Directors and the General Manager, whether interim or permanent,
or their officers or delegates to execute grant agreements, a two phase
design-build contract, intergovernmental agreements (IGAs), purchase and
sale contracts, documents evidencing property interests, and such other
agreements as are necessary or appropriate for the construction of the
Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) and to accept third party contributions and
increase the project budget by such third party contribution amounts to
implement third party requested betterments, all according to the terms set
forth in the Resolution.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.
Packet Pg. 46

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Jeff Walker

6.D

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning,
introduced Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital
Programs, Andy Mutz, Engineering Project Manager for the
Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) and Marla Lien, General
Counsel. Together they reviewed the SERE presentation
included in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda
packet for July 14, 2015. The presentation included a SERE
Update, SERE Design/Build Contract Information, Full Funding
Grant Agreement (FFGA) Process, SERE Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) and Contract Authority, and Next Steps.
Rick Clarke noted that last year the Board authorized the
submission of the SERE project to the Denver Regional Council
of Governments (DRCOG) as part of their 2040 plan. At that
time staff explained the details of the FFGA and started the
procurement process for the design/build contract. Rick
Clarke stated that it is the same project financially. It includes
a significant federal commitment and a local stakeholder
commitment of $25 million. Staff conducted an official
appraisal of the Right of Way (ROW) property being donated.
The current appraisal is $3 million. Staff had originally
estimated it to be $9 million. This does not affect the actual
financials of the project. The project cost overall went down
by $6 million. RTD is still getting all the land needed in one
continuous strip, which is of great value to the agency. RTD’s
current additional match is $71.2 million. The difference from
last year’s amount of $73.7 million is due to money already
spent on the project. The total cost of the project is $233
million.
Marla Lien added that Lone Tree will essentially be the banker
for a variety of other government entities and private sector
companies, providing $25 million over the course of
construction. Dave Genova, Interim General Manager, pointed
out that if the FFGA is not granted in its full $92 million staff
will come back to the Board to decide on next steps with
stakeholders and other financing options.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked staff and management for an
excellent presentation. He asked Directors and staff to keep
focused and on track as it may be a long meeting. He
explained that he will allow for all Directors to have a first
round of questions and comments before calling on Directors
wishing to speak for a second time. He asked the audience to
Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Discussion:

6.D

turn their cell phones off and to take any calls outside of the
room.

Director Bagley expressed his full support for this
recommended action to move forward. He thinks the action
sets an example of the partnership between stakeholders,
RTD, and the Federal Government, which cannot be denied.
He noted that the 14% stakeholder participation is
unprecedented and fantastic.
Director Bagley noticed on the Board Report for the
recommended action that Balfour Beatty received the full 45
points allocated for the cost section of the evaluation. He
calculated that their proposal was in the $140 million range as
opposed to the other proposals that might have been in the
$169 to $182 million range. He asked staff to confirm that
they are recommending an entity that is $30 to $40 million
less than others. Andy Mutz confirmed that the cost for the
Balfour Beatty contract is $140 million; the costs for the other
proposals range from $178 to $198 million. Director Bagley
noted that the difference then is $40 to $60 million. He asked
staff about the cost estimate established by staff when the
Request for Proposal (RFP) was created. Andy Mutz replied
that staff estimated the cost at $145 to $146 million.
Director Bagley concluded that the proposal by Balfour Beatty
is about $6 million less than staff’s estimated cost. He
thought it is fantastic that the recommendation is for a bidder
at 3% less than staff’s estimate. He pointed out that this
difference in cost along with the high stakeholder involvement
is really critical as RTD steps up and demonstrate to the
Federal Government that the community is ready to work with
the amount allocated in the President’s 2016 budget.
Director Lubow said that generally she is very pleased that the
stakeholders for the SERE are coming forward and making a
submission of money and/or in kind support over the 2.5%
that the FasTracks law requires. She expressed her concerns
over not being awarded the FFGA as that is out of RTD’s
control. She noted that even though staff said the
recommended action is the same as the past updates
presented, she distinctly remembers that when the Board
Packet Pg. 48

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

He acknowledged the presence of various visitors in the
audience, including The Honorable Jim Gunning, Mayor of the
City of Lone Tree, as well as Douglas County Commissioner
Roger Partridge.

voted to add this item to the APE, the stakeholders’
contribution was valued at $40 million. This recommended
action has the stakeholders’ contribution valued at $28 million,
for a marked difference of $12 million. She understands that
the original value presented was not legally binding; however,
a contribution of $40 million has an influence on a vote since
it is an impressive amount. She explained that this does not
mean she does not want the project to move forward, it
simply means that the difference has made her feel
uncomfortable. Director Lubow mentioned that the total
project cost has changed over the years: it was $183 million
in 2004, last year it was $207 million, and this year it is $233
million. She thanked staff for their work while noting that she
would vote no until the issues she referred to were resolved.
Rick Clarke replied that he would have to look at the letter of
intent to get some of the details Director Lubow referred to.
He pointed out that the value change also has to do with
estimates versus real appraisals. He stated that the
stakeholders are still providing the strip of land promised
regardless of how it is valued. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
confirmed that RTD is getting the land and all other elements
the stakeholders promised including staff time, re-planning,
roadway easement, sewer easement, temporary water
facilities, etc. The change in value does not denote
elimination of elements.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that the package offered by the
stakeholders last year is still what RTD will get. He recalled a
discussion in which the range of the value of the land was
discussed. Rick Clarke affirmed Director Hoy’s memory of the
conversation noting that while the value of the land went
down, so did the value of the project. Director Hoy agreed
that the difference in the value of the project is a direct
reflection of the decrease in the value of the land.
Director Anderson stated that she will support the
recommended action. She said that her community has
supported FasTracks from the very beginning by a huge
percentage. She added that this is a good deal since RTD will
be paying 31% of the total cost of the project, thus leveraging
dollars in a great way. Director Anderson thanked everyone
involved for their commitment to this project. She
acknowledged that other parts of FasTracks need to be
finished and that this will be a great addition to the FasTracks
progress.
Packet Pg. 49

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

Director Menten noted that the cost per mile of the West line
was originally estimated at the high $40 million range and
ended up being about $56-$58 million. She pointed out that
SERE was originally estimated at $183 million and now has
increased to $233 million, meaning about $100 million per
mile. She asked what was accounted in the cost and what
the expectation in the future of the cost rising or declining is.
Rick Clarke replied that the cost per mile in all transit projects
has been going up for a myriad of reasons. All FasTracks
corridors have gone up from the 2004 estimates. He pointed
out that SERE has unique conditions: poor soil, more
structures per mile than other projects, and the 3 stations and
large parking lot at the end of line. Rick Clarke added that
with all of the outside money RTD is receiving the cost to RTD
per mile is around $30 million range which makes it very cost
effective. Director Menten thanked Rick Clarke for the
explanation. She noted that at the end, it is all tax payers’
money.
Chair Sisk shared that he received a number of letters in
support of this project: from the South Metro Denver
Chamber, the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce, Ridge
Gate, Douglas County Business Alliance, Denver South
Economic Partnership, and Charles Schwab. He noted that
many things may not have been envisioned in the 2004
FasTracks plan, such as Public Private Partnerships (P3s). He
stated that everytime another step of FasTracks is completed
it is a regional achievement. The SERE is important to the
whole District. Chair Sisk acknowledged the collaboration
SERE has received and said he was satisfied with the
explanation of the $6 million difference.
Director James stated that he was glad he waited to speak
because he has heard the concerns and the explanations
given. He agrees with the explanations provided. He shared
the fluctuation in prices since 2004 correlates with his
experience in real estate. He agreed with Marla Lien that the
land itself is the asset regardless of the price. He said he is
glad to support this recommended action that has been made
possible with local and federal partnerships.
Director Francone thanked staff for spending time with her the
day prior answering some of her questions. She said that she
has a few more questions. She wanted to confirm that the
third party would bear the costs of any betterments. Marla
Lien confirmed that was the case in both the recommended
Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D

Director Francone pointed out that the discussion portion of
the recommended action as presented in the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee agenda packet for July 14, 2015
mentions Intergovernmental Agreements (IGA) with Lone Tree
as well as agreements with Ridgegate and Rampart Range
Metropolitan District. These agreements include additional
contributions from these entities. She wondered if those
figures were included in the costs since there is a mention of
an additional $150,000. Marla Lien replied that all the
contributions are included in the final cost. The $150,000 is a
contribution in staff time and waving permit fees, which other
municipalities have charged for. Marla Lien explained that all
contribution values are based on RTD estimates.
Director Francone asked staff to point her to the numbers
which explain how the project decreased in cost since the
value of the ROW was originally estimated at $15 million, then
at $9.2 million and currently appraised at $3 million. Bill Van
Meter referred Director Francone to the Southeast Rail
Financing chart included in the presentation. He said that the
only two numbers that have changed are the Local
Stakeholder ROW, which changed from $9.2 million to $3
million, and the Subtotal Non-RTD Contributions; last year the
value was $73.7 million and this year it is at $71.2 million. In
the past year staff has spent $2.5 million continuing the
pursuit of the FFGA, other agreements, engineering and
design. Committee Chair Hoy pointed out that the only
difference seems to be the value of the land and the money
already spent.
Director Francone asked about the handout on SERE Actual
Percentages of Total Costs Instead of the Cost to Complete
that Director Lasater distributed to the Directors at the
beginning of the meeting. A copy of this document is
available at the Board Office. Bill Van Meter replied that he
had not seen the document. Committee Chair Hoy stated
that it would not be fair to ask staff to comment on a
document created by a Director. Director Francone agreed.
Packet Pg. 51

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

action and the resolution. She asked regarding potential
purchases of additional ROW as mentioned by Marla Lien. She
wondered what the estimate for those purchases is. Andy
Mutz replied that the cost of the private parcels is estimated at
$1.5 million and that price is included in the $233 million of
the project.

6.D

Director Tobiassen thanked staff for the presentation. He said
that this project is aligned with the philosophy of building as
much as we can as fast as we can. He asked if Balfour Beatty
is currently working on other projects. Rick Clarke replied that
they are working on the Eagle P3 project and North Metro.
Director Tobiassen noted that this is another reason why their
construction cost is lower as they have their crews and
equipment in the area. Rick Clarke added that it is a great
way of leveraging the available resources. Director Tobiassen
congratulated the SERE stakeholders for putting their money
where the effort is. He also considers them to be very
visionary as this region is one of the fastest growing areas in
Metro Denver.
Director Folska said she appreciated the effort, participation
and initiative of the SERE stakeholders. She expects that
support and enthusiasm to be sustained throughout the whole
project. She also hopes these stakeholders would help their
brethren in other locations come to the table to support other
projects in a similar way.
Director Folska mentioned that this recommended action could
have been broken down into smaller sections as to not have
so many moving parts. She felt there were some numbers
that did not correlate between the recommended action and
the resolution. Although she cannot refer to the numbers, she
recalled a $200 million in one place and a $200,000 in
another. She added that all signs indicate RTD will receive
the FFGA; however, she would feel more comfortable if there
was a clear direction in writing on how the gap may be filled if
the funding is less. Marla Lien explained that RTD is receiving
from Lone Tree the following contributions: a cash
contribution of $25 million, $50,000 in property rights in the
form of deeds and non-revocable licenses to property and
$150,000 in staff time and permit fees wavers. The last two
items amount to the $200,000 Director Folska referred to.
The $2 million figure is the estimated value of the property
donated by Ridgegate. Marla Lien clarified that the resolution
states “receipt of a FFGA in an amount no less than $92
million” in order to establish that if the FFGA is not at the $92
million budgeted in the Presidential budget staff needs to come
back to the Board in order to explore funding options.
Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Hoy said that he would not preclude anyone
from a second round of questions as the recommended action
is very important.

Director Folska asked staff to explain the Best Value Select
process. Rick Clarke explained that this process does not
necessarily select the lowest proposal; it selects the best
proposal based on a point system evaluation of technical
qualifications and price. Director Folska stated that if the
third party exceeds costs it is their responsibility to make up
the difference, not RTD. She wondered what the purpose of a
contingency is under these conditions. Rick Clarke explained
that the Federal government mandates a contingency. Also, if
RTD wanted to add something to the project or if RTD had
missed something on the proposal it would then be RTD’s
responsibility to fund that aspect of the project using the
contingency. He added that the contingency for SERE is $25
million and is already added to the $233 million final cost.
Director Folska asked if the SERE area has all the utilities,
including power supply, needed for the construction. Andy
Mutz replied that there is power in the area for all 3 stations
and throughout the guideway.
Director Bagley noted that what Director Francone may have
wanted to ask regarding the handout Director Lasater
distributed was about how the final amount of RTD
contribution seems to be 45.3%. Director Bagley explained
that that percentage does not include the additional match to
be received by RTD, which would place that percentage at
35.8%, or roughly a third of the total cost of the project.
Motion
to Postpone
Indefinitely: Director Lasater made the motion to table this
item to a date uncertain to allow staff and
possibly two Board members to enter into
discussion with the developer in Lone Tree to
bring the shared numbers closer together on the
capital cost contributions, so it can not only
protect our tax payers, which is our number one
mandate, but also show Washington, D.C. that
we are strong in making partnerships and being
able to move other projects closer to completion.
Director Menten seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 53

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D

Director Lasater said that the Town of Parker asked him to
correct the presentation in that the Town of Parker has not
officially endorsed the SERE.
Director Lasater stated that he has a different perspective on
this action as he has been an elected official for almost 20
years and a corporate CEO for three or four decades. He said
he has a credo, “stay in the comfort zone of business as usual
or rise to a challenge that can become a new standard”. He
added that RTD has been very creative in the past and needs
to keep being creative in the future in order to build the
remaining 50 miles of FasTracks. He suggested RTD consider
adopting the model of municipal government when it comes to
construction of capital projects in that the developers build it
and municipalities maintain it. Director Lasater applauded
Lone Tree for pulling together cash contributions; however, he
thinks the development community can and should be held
accountable for getting the remaining FasTracks projects built
as soon as possible. Director Lasater stated that he would like
to see RTD take a next step to see cost sharing at 50%. This
would allow for the remaining segments to be built sooner,
adding value to all the property owners, tax payers, and the
District. He acknowledged this may be a new way of thinking;
however, new thoughts are needed to finish FasTracks sooner
and possibly move on to the vision of NexTracks.
Director Lasater added that Washington notices when there is
a partnership and local buy in. He pointed out that he was
told that when staff negotiated the cost sharing they did not
give a percentage or a dollar amount in the negotiations. He
believes it is time to step up and share in the costs as well as
the benefits with the developers.
Marla Lien explained that the motion presented is a motion to
postpone indefinitely which if passed means there would be no
vote on the main motion. There would be no discussion on
the motion to postpone indefinitely either.
Director Lasater clarified that his intention is not to kill the
project. He would like to see more matching dollars,
especially from the land developers, allowing for this action to
become a new paradigm in how RTD collaborates with
stakeholders.
Committee Chair Hoy requested clarification on the motion
including if there could be a discussion. Marla Lien responded
Packet Pg. 54

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Discussion:

6.D

that there is no discussion on a motion to postpone
indefinitely. She noted that the motion presented had a
number of items added to it, but essentially it is a motion to
postpone indefinitely.

Marla Lien clarified that a yes vote would dismiss the original
motion without a vote. Staff may present something different
at another time, but this specific motion cannot be brought
back to the Board.
Committee Chair Hoy explained that if the Directors wanted to
vote tonight on SERE, then a no vote on the current motion to
postpone indefinitely would be needed.
Director Lasater asked for a question of clarification. He
wondered if he could amend his motion. Marla Lien replied
that the motion has been seconded thus not able to be
amended.
RESULT:
FAILED COMMITTEE [3 TO 12]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Natalie Menten, Director, District M
AYES: Lasater, Menten, Solano
NAYS: Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Kent Bagley, Barbara
Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Larry Hoy, Bill James, Judy
Lubow, Chuck Sisk, Tom Tobiassen, Jeff Walker
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion FAILED.
Vote
on original
motion:

Chair Sisk called for the question.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 4 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson called for the question as there was
discussion on the motion to postpone indefinitely.

6.D

Committee Chair Hoy thanked everyone for their participation and their
thoughtfulness in their questions. He also thanked staff for the
presentation.

C. Updates
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, Rick Clarke,
Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, and Susan Cohen, Senior
Manager for Finance, reviewed the 2015 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)
Status Update presentation included in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
agenda packet for July 14, 2015. The presentation included the APE
Purpose and Process, FasTracks Program Status, FasTracks Program Cost,
Changes for 2015 APE, Summary, and Next Steps.
Bill Van Meter explained that staff plans on analyzing the unfunded
FasTracks corridors, (Southwest extension, Central, Northwest, and
completion of North Metro) to identify which, if any, could be eligible for
Small Starts, New Starts and/or other Federal funding. Staff aims to report
the findings of this Federal Funding Feasibility Analysis to the Board and
stakeholders next year.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that the presentation discussed the North Metro
line to 124th and not the full line up to 162nd. Rick Clarke explained that
construction from 124th to 162nd is not included in the current APE due to
financial constraints. The completion cost of the North Metro line would be
$180 million. Committee Chair Hoy wondered if there have been
conversations with local stakeholders using the Southeast Rail Extension
(SERE) as an example of a partnership to build the line to completion. Rick
Clarke stated that staff uses the SERE stakeholders as a model on how to
get things done when talking to other jurisdictions, communities, etc.
Director Bagley stated that he understands staff will be doing further
engineering cost analysis on the Southwest rail extension as well as all
unfunded corridors. Rick Clarke confirmed Director Bagley’s statement. He
said that all unfunded corridors will have a new cost estimate by the end of
the year through the Federal Funding Feasibility Analysis. This will prevent
staff from working from obsolete estimates.
Director Anderson shared her concerns regarding safety on the Southwest
corridor. She recalled that $800,000 was budgeted for safety
improvements on the Southwest line, due to it being so close to a freight
track. From her understanding, this money was used for the North Metro
line. Rick Clarke explained that Director Anderson may be referring to an
amount of $9 million once allocated for railroad relocation for the SERE
which was moved to the internal savings account.
Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• 2015 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) Status Update

6.D

Director Menten wondered if the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) going East-West in
the northern area is not included in this update because it is not FasTracks.
Bill Van Meter confirmed that was correct. He said that East-West or
Arterial BRT is from the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS). Director
Menten asked if there is any funding for that BRT. Bill Van Meter replied
that there is some funding from Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) for further environmental planning and design work. There is also
a request included in the Strategic Budget Plan to allow advancement of this
project.
Director Menten asked if the Certificates of Participation (COP) are defined
as debt, service payment, or other. Susan Cohen replied that COPs are
considered debt service.
Director Lubow noted that the RTD Cash Flow chart through 2030s and
2040s projects an increase in operational and maintenance flow. She asked
if theoretically that money could be used for anything. Bill Van Meter replied
that yes, that money could be used however the Board of Directors would
like.
Director Francone expressed her appreciation in being presented the APE
before having to vote on it. She asked that staff send her more details on
the projects labeled as miscellaneous. She inquired about the method to be
used for the Federal Funding Feasibility Analysis. She wondered if it is a new
method or the same one used before. Bill Van Meter replied that it is a
similar analysis to the one done in 2002-2003. At that time, the West,
East, and Gold line were chosen as the ones with the best chances in
receiving funding given the current criteria at that time. A similar process
was used for the SERE. Staff will do the same with the unfunded lines in
order to select the ones with the strongest viability from the Federal
perspective.
Director James noted that the gap Director Lubow referred to is still a
decade or two away. He pointed out that budget will be tight for the next
few years. He made reference to Director Lasater’s amendment during the
SERE discussion and wondered how possible it would be to put some
pressure on stakeholders and other partners. Rick Clarke replied that staff is
already doing that. Staff has met with Adams County, Thornton, and
developers regarding this discussion. He noted that developers will develop
the land whether RTD is there or not, so this is a bit of a challenge. He
pointed to Olde Town Arvada and Denver Union Station as examples of
successful projects and partnerships with developers. Director James told
Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson asked staff to send her the cost breakdown of the cost
per rider to build the North Metro line to 124th.

6.D

staff that the entire Board appreciates all the current and future efforts to
engage with developers.

Director Folska recalled the presentation on Asset Management and State of
Good Repair during the Operations and Customer Service Committee
Meeting on July 7, 2015. The presentation included information about the
software developed by RTD that is used to manage the Asset Management
Plan. She understands that the software has been shared with the MAX
program participants; however, she feels that licensing software created in
house may be a way to create new sustainable revenue sources.
Director Lubow said that she has heard from North Metro stakeholders about
looking at 144th instead of 124th as a terminus on the first phase of
construction. She wondered if staff was considering this option. Rick
Clarke replied that staff has heard of that request and does consider 144th as
an option. The rough estimate puts the cost up to $100 million. Director
Lubow stated that this may change the APE if pursued. Rick Clarke
explained that the APE could be changed at any time throughout the year.
Committee Chair Hoy clarified that using 144th as a target on the North
Metro line does not change 162nd from ultimately being the end of line.

D. Other Matters
Director Walker reminded the Directors that the APTA Board Member and Board
Support Seminar will be held from July 18th to the 22nd. He directed the Board to
their Seminar Packets included with their mail. He said he would reach out to every
Director on Thursday or Friday to explain final details and involvement. He said
that the attendees are excited to be in Denver and see all that we are doing. He
thanked Paula Perdue, Executive Director of the Board Office, and the Board Office
Staff for all their work preparing for the Seminar.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 4, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee
meeting at 8:01 p.m.
Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska reminded everyone that Tom Clark, Chief Executive Officer
of the Metro Denver Economic Development Corporation and Executive Vice
President of the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce, is famous for saying
that 70% of those employed south of Belleview live north of I-70. She said
that she feels very comfortable that when the SERE is done it will be a big
boom. She also noted how many institutions have concluded that property
values increase 2% to 8% with the addition of light rail. She hopes that the
folks in the Southwest area will be able to see that.

6.D

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 59

6.E

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, July 14, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 8:10 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
8:06 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

8:10 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

8:15 PM
8:15 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District N

Present
Present

8:14 PM
8:10 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

8:11 PM
8:04 PM
8:10 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:05 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

8:14 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

8:12 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

8:06 PM

Packet Pg. 60

6.E

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:10 PM
8:05 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Baudermann, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Heather Copp, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Anthony Forrester, David Genova,
John Gonzales, Cory Granrud, Nate Herman, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Tony McCaulay, Robin
McIntosh Jr., Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales,
Andy Mutz, Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters, Scott Reed,
Steve Reilly, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Karen Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Liz Telford, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch, Susan Wood,
C. Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Greg Barber, Chris Barker, Barbara Brodman, Sarah
Camacho, Sarah Clark, Karen Creamer, Jane Donovan, Joni Goheen,
Art Griffith, The Honorable Jim Gunning – Mayor of the City of Lone
Tree, Sherman Hamilton, Scott Hoffman, Eugene Howard, Negar
Karimi, Kelley Kneib, Anders Lindgren, Frank Marigold, Julie McCabe,
Lorna Moritz, Roger Partidge, Joe Reed, Dave Sachs, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Karen Stuart, Arleen Taniwaki, Gary Van
Dorn, Molly Vega, Megan Wagner, Roger Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• 2015-2020 Strategic Plan
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the 2015-2020 RTD Strategic Plan.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
reminded the Board that this item was reviewed at the June
30, 2015 Study Session. Staff has since made some
modifications; he asked Brian Welch, Senior Manager of
Planning Technical Services, to review the changes with the
Board.

Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Lasater and Solano left early.

6.E

The next change relates to an initiative that staff flushed out
further to increase equity and accessibility. One of the
initiatives now reads: “Work with private and non-profit
partners to collaborate on new technologies such as car and
bicycle sharing, autonomous vehicles and other transportation
innovations”. He said staff heard pretty clearly from the Board
that this needs to be a forward looking document and
anticipate activities over the next five years that will position
the District to deal with emerging technologies so this was
added to address that need.
Additionally, the Board expressed a great deal of interest in
the integration of the RTD investment with the State of
Colorado. As a result, the initiative was changed from simply:
“Partner with other agencies to integrate transit services
throughout the State of Colorado” to read: “Establish a
leadership role with other agencies to integrate transit services
throughout the State of Colorado”. This signifies that RTD
would have a leadership role in that activity.
Finally, based on a number of comments from the Board
related to the interest in fostering enhanced communication
between Board and staff, the initiative was changed from:
“Foster a two-way communication culture with every level of
the organization” to read: “Foster a two-way communication
culture with every level of the organization, including
enhanced opportunities for Board/staff interaction.”
He said that if the Board approves the Strategic Plan, staff will
come back later in the year with performance metrics that
would be associated with the initiatives so progress could be
monitored by the Board. Staff believes the Board’s preference
would be to visit the Strategic Plan once a year while
performance measures would become part of the Board and
Senior Leadership Team Advance.

Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Brian Welch reiterated that changes were made based on the
feedback staff heard at the Study Session. He said that the
first change was related to the Strategic Planning Process
Flow. Per Board direction to make sure this plan really
addressed RTD’s long-term vision, staff added a sentence that
reads: “Some of the initiatives involve actions that may not
come to fruition until beyond the five-year time frame, but
warrant action now”.

6.E

Director Folska expressed her appreciation for all the effort
that has gone into preparing the Strategic Plan. To her it is a
memorialization of what RTD is already doing and what we
have decided to do for the next year. She stated that is has
always been her belief that doing a strategic plan is what the
Board was elected to do. She recognized that there are some
boards that have staff create the plans but that is not her
preference so she will not be supporting the approval of the
Strategic Plan this evening.
Director Lubow echoed Director Folska’s comments. She
appreciates the work that staff has put into revisions to
address specific Board concerns. She said she very much
appreciates being listened to and feeling like she was heard;
however, she still feels that a retreat driven strategic plan that
the Board does once a year should be done also for a five year
plan. She said that personally she would like to consider this
document suggestions for moving forward as opposed to
having it be associated with specific strategic goals. Director
Lubow noted that although she appreciated the work she
would be voting against the Strategic Plan.
Director Solano said that he also appreciated the work but he
thinks a Board driven plan is more in-line with what the
constituents want. He believes that the timeframe for the
Strategic Plan should be one where the Board can establish
this policy. He stated that he will vote no.
Director Walker stated that he will be supporting the Strategic
Plan. He expressed his confusion about the sentiment that
this is not Board driven. He noted that the Board gave input
and the Strategic Plan was changed as a result. He shared
that in his experience it is usually staff that creates the items
for the Board to vote on. Staff comes up with the concepts,
develops the plans, writes the reports, etc. and the Board
either approves them or asks for changes. He thinks this is a
Board driven Strategic Plan even though staff did the bulk of
the work. Director Walker thanked the staff for listening to
the Board’s concerns. He thinks they did a great job.

Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair James feels that the process by which the
Board is looking at this document and having the opportunity
for changes is good. He thanked Brian Welch for outlining the
changes since the last iteration of the Strategic Plan.

6.E

Director Deadwyler thanked staff for all the hard work they
have put in on the Strategic Plan. She recognized that the
Directors and Senior Leadership Team have an advance once a
year to discuss a one year plan, not a five year plan. She
would like to see the Board have a full discussion on the
Strategic Plan. She said that she expressed what she thought
was most important but it did not appear in the plan until
recently; therefore, she will be voting no. Director Deadwyler
believes that the Board needs more involvement in developing
the Strategic Plan. She thinks that perhaps having something
similar to the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force might be
valuable in further developing this plan.
Committee Chair James shared that he agrees with Director
Bagley and Director Walker. This Strategic Plan is one that
has had plenty of Board input. He believes it is consistent
with RTD’s mission as articulated by the Board and does a
good job describing how to achieve the desired outcomes.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 5]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Francone, Hoy, James, Menten, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Deadwyler, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Solano
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

• Contract Amendment; 2nd Optional Year of 2013-2015 Street
Improvements & Shelter Installations Contract; # 33DM005
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the
second optional year of a three-year contract for the annual Street
Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc.
Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Bagley echoed the comments made by Director
Walker. He shared that he spent a great deal of time with
Brian Welch discussing the issues that he thought were most
important for the agency. He sees several of those issues
(customer service, safety and workforce) being right at the top
of the items the Strategic Plan addresses. He recognized that
Brian Welch and his team spent countless hours interviewing
and having conversations with 14 members of the Board. He
expressed his shock that one member did not participate.

6.E

for $390,318.35. Funding for this contract amendment is provided by the
annual 2015 – 2016 Engineering Expense Budgets.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Senior Manager of Engineering, explained
that currently RTD uses Manion Construction to perform dayto-day repair work for things like bus pads, curbs, shelters,
etc. as well as work on the West Corridor. He said that this is
a really straightforward contract. Ordinarily staff would come
back in September but we have been using them quite a bit on
the West Corridor.
Cory Granrud, Project Manager, noted that Manion did 34
projects from 2013 to 2014 while this year they are already
going on 52. He said that Manion is a small business
contractor and has been very good to work with. They do a
great job so staff wishes to extend the contract.
Director Menten said that she was in support of the contract.
She asked if staff could send her the email contact for the
different governing bodies that would be responsible for the
non-RTD bus benches, shelters, etc. She has wanted to reach
out to them for several years as she sees broken bus benches,
graffiti, etc. She knows this is not RTD’s responsibility so she
would like to reach out to the responsible parties. Henry
Stopplecamp recognized that it might take some time to find
the information for every county in Director Menten’s district
but staff would work on that.
Director Francone asked how the base contract value was
determined. Henry Stopplecamp explained that staff looked at
the ongoing projects and then did an estimate. He said that it
was a lot of guess work. The last two years the cost ended
up being over the initial base contract value and staff had to
come back to the Board to request approval of amendments
for additional funding.

Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

6.E

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Committee Vice-Chair
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development and Planning
Coordination, reminded the Board that this is the second briefing as part of
the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Assessment. The team is
comprised of GM Arrington of GB Place Making, Lorna Morita of TRA, and
Arleen Taniwaki of ArLand. They reviewed a Power Point presentation that
was included in the July 14, 2015 Planning and Development Committee
Agenda Packet. The presentation focused on the Peer Reviews, 360 TOD
Interviews and Internal Assessments that the team conducted.
GB Arrington noted that there are six big themes to focus on which are:
 RTD compared well to peers
 Pilots raised RTD’s competency
 Decision-making is a challenge
 TOD group is not empowered
 Build processes, become more systematic and be more proactive
 Think more about TOD during operations
The Peer Agency TOD Review key findings were:
 RTD’s TOD program has evolved and grown since the 2010 TOD
Strategic Plan
 RTD compared well with national best practices
 RTD should selectively borrow from its peers – help take the program
to the next level
The External Interviews revealed important observations related to RTD TOD
Decision-making as follows:
 RTD departmental interests compete
 Decision-makings often contradict each other
 TOD projects impact almost every department without sufficient
coordination
 RTD TOD Projects lack sufficient priority
 TOD group is not enabled or empowered

Packet Pg. 66

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• RTD TOD Assessment Status Report to the Board of Directors

6.E

The Internal Assessment key themes were:
 Recognized the value of the TOC Division
 Build processes, become more systematic and be more proactive
 Is TOD a core function of RTD
 TOD is an evolving process at RTD
 RTD departmental interests compete
 Was money left on the table with TOD and DUS
 Residual baggage with TOD
 TOD during construction versus during operations
 Does TOD have the authority to negotiate
GB Arrington stated that his team would be back in the fall. At that time
they would prepare specific recommendations for policies, processes,
staffing and follow-up work.
Committee Chair James thanked the team for their candor and insights.
Director Folska thanked them for all their work. She thinks it is incredibly
useful, meaningful and informative.
Director Deadwyler shared that one of the things most relevant in her
District is that we evaluate everything except the customer needs. She said
that she is not disappointed in the work done so far but is concerned that a
big piece missing is discussions with the users. She hopes that they can
capture some of that feedback when they come back in the fall.
Director Walker wondered how much of the TOD program struggles were
due to unclear legislation at the state or local level. He asked if there was
something beyond our control that was contributing to some of the
difficulties. Bill Sirois noted that the Board really received an unfiltered
version of the comments. He thinks that the process has been a learning
experience for staff. He pointed out that the report did acknowledge that
the TOD staff has evolved form 2010 when our TOD Pilots began. Bill Sirois
stated that it is a challenge, especially as staff interfaces with developers
that are not used to dealing with a public agency.
Director Walker commented that there are things that RTD cannot control.
Transit Oriented Development is really a choice; there are some people and

Packet Pg. 67

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The External Interviews also indicated that the TOD staff had learned from
the TOD pilot programs, which was their purpose but interested parties felt
RTD learned by doing at their expense. Those interviewed also felt that the
timelines and schedules were impacted by RTD delays as decisions took too
long and there was inconsistent RTD guidance.

6.E

GB Arrington noted that if his team were making this presentation to other
peer agencies they would be saying many of the same things; these are
normal challenges when trying to balance the needs of users, developers,
cities, etc. He said if there are no internal fights then it means nothing is
happening. He recognized that his team is not surprised there are tensions
at RTD but the goal is to find ways to make the process more predictable to
work through.
Interim General Manager Genova noted that the change in legislation for
parking management has already helped RTD. Several examples are the
unsolicited proposal received and the City of Aurora’s plans for the Iliff
Parking Garage.
Director Lubow said she was very happy with having a TOD Analysis
because it is such a large and all-encompassing subject that it is easy to get
lost. She believes that anything RTD can do to clarify our mission and goals
is a big plus. She is very excited for their final presentation.
Director Bagley thinks it is important for the Board to remember where we
came from. Back in 2009 RTD was simply the ‘T’ in Transit Oriented
Development. He believes the agency has come a long way in seven years.
He hears from the development community that they would like RTD’s TOD
group to act as a facilitator and ombudsman. Director Bagley thinks that
RTD is constrained by State Legislation in regards to our involvement in
TOD. He wonders if perhaps the TOD Department needs to stand on its
own and have a bigger voice than just being under the Planning Department.
Director Menten thinks that the communities along the West Corridor did not
envision high density development when they approved the FasTracks plan.
The West Line goes right through well-established neighborhoods. She said
that many of those larger homesteads have been in families for generations;
they do not want to move and they do not want a seven story housing
community next to them. Director Menten stated that she would want
notifications of any zoning changes in her area and what that would mean
for the community.
Director Francone asked the TOD Assessment team to keep in mind Director
Walker’s earlier comment as they come back to the Board in the fall that
“this is how we live and this is how we want to live”. She also asked them
to keep in mind Director Menten’s sentiments that not all communities want
Packet Pg. 68

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

communities that want it and some that do not. Director Walker stated that
when most people voted for FasTracks in 2004 they said that transportation
was something they wanted. He believes this is a good step toward helping
us find a path towards Transit Oriented Development.

6.E

Bill Sirois pointed out that Transit Oriented Development is really context
sensitive; transit is an amenity that helps development but just because
there is a transit center does not mean development will automatically
happen. Other factors like location, local jurisdictions commitment, etc.
need to be there to make development happen.
Lorna Moritz commented that when they review TOD programs that are
somewhat more mature, the way those program prioritize their stations is to
look to where they have willing partners such as local jurisdictions,
neighborhood associations, developers, etc. She said no one will shove a
TOD down a community’s throat that does not want it there because it is
too hard to do even when people are interested.
Committee Chair James noted that the fundamental mission of RTD is
mobility but RTD also exists to contribute to the livability of the Metro area.
He believes that livability is contributed to by TOD. The challenge is the
coordination of these two goals. Committee Chair James thinks it is great
that RTD is in the process of conducting a TOD assessment. He looks
forward to finishing the study and implementing some of the
recommendations.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley shared that he recently had the opportunity to give Anthony Graves
from the Mayor Hancock’s office a tour of District H. Director Bagley said that he
has known Anthony Graves since his time with Visit Denver. He thought they had
a very valuable conversation about RTD. He suggested that it might be worthwhile
for those Directors that have not yet met with him to do so.
Committee Chair James noted that he has known Anthony Graves for a similar
period of time as Director Bagley. He said that Anthony Graves has reached out to
all Board members; he asked those Directors that had not yet taken the opportunity
to meet with Anthony Graves to please do so.

Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Transit Oriented Development. Her community members chose to live in
her area because there are single family homes on larger lots. She believes
her constituency would be sensitive to issues around density in their
community. Director Francone wondered if the focus of the TOD
Assessment was only related to FasTracks projects or if it would include bus
transit centers as well. Bill Sirois explained that RTD would be deferring to
local jurisdictions to create the vision for their community. If the local
jurisdiction decides that they want to be a large lot, single family home
community then RTD will not do anything to conflict with that vision. He
said that there are some beginning stages of TOD happening around bus
service and in the future he expects this to expand.

6.E

Director Menten shared that she had her meeting with Anthony Graves several
weeks ago. They met at the Sheridan Station with their bikes to take the West
Line to the Jeffco Government Center and had some difficulties getting on the train.
They missed the first train and then Anthony Graves got on the next train and it
ended up leaving Director Menten behind. He said if anyone said the W-Line does
not run on time they were wrong.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 4, 2015
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 70

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 9:18 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee Meeting.

6.F

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, July 14, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 9:20 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Absent
Present

9:23 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

9:19 PM
9:24 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

9:19 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

9:19 PM
9:19 PM
9:19 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

9:20 PM
9:19 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

9:19 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Absent
Present

9:19 PM
Packet Pg. 71

6.F

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

9:19 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Baudermann, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Heather Copp, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Anthony Forrester, David Genova,
John Gonzales, Cory Granrud, Nate Herman, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Tony McCaulay, Robin
McIntosh Jr., Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales,
Andy Mutz, Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters, Scott Reed,
Steve Reilly, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Karen Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Liz Telford, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch, Susan Wood,
C. Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Greg Barber, Chris Barker, Barbara Brodman, Sarah
Camacho, Sarah Clark, Karen Creamer, Jane Donovan, Joni Goheen,
Art Griffith, The Honorable Jim Gunning – Mayor of the City of Lone
Tree, Sherman Hamilton, Scott Hoffman, Eugene Howard, Negar
Karimi, Kelley Kneib, Anders Lindgren, Frank Marigold, Julie McCabe,
Lorna Moritz, Roger Partidge, Joe Reed, Dave Sachs, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Karen Stuart, Arleen Taniwaki, Gary Van
Dorn, Molly Vega, Megan Wagner, Roger Wilson

Committee Chair Folska highlighted RTD’s participation during the July 7, 2015
Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) meeting. She acknowledged the
participation of David Genova, Interim General Manager, and Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen.
Other Directors in attendance were Director Francone, Director James, and Director
Menten.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman, from CRL Associates, acknowledged that the last time the
committee met was the night of the Denver Municipal Runoff Elections. The
election resulted in seven (7) new council seats, including Kevin Flynn, who
at the time served as RTD’s Public Information Manager for the Eagle P3
project. Roger Sherman noted that density, congestion, and how transit fits
into these two issues will be some of the items that will be taken up by the
Denver City Council.

Packet Pg. 72

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Anderson, Lasater, and Solano were absent.

6.F

Roger Sherman mentioned that the candidate deadlines for the November
municipal elections have various dates through the end of August. Once
those submissions are official he will prepare a snapshot of the candidates
and distribute it to the Board.

Director Francone asked about the possible annexation of Southwest Plaza
to Bow Mar. Roger Sherman replied that he has not heard anything further
since the developer suspended the efforts in late April. He said he would do
some research to see if there has been any progress.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Megan Wagner, Director of Client Services for Brandeberry~McKenna,
noted that both Jenifer Brandeberry and Julie McKenna were on vacation.
Megan Wagner thanked the Directors who attended the Transportation
Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) meeting. She acknowledged that the
committee asked very tough questions yet the answers provided by David
Genova, Interim General Manager, and Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen were great.
She also thanked the Directors who have confirmed their attendance to the
Council of State Governments West Conference Meeting: Transportation
Presentation on July 27th. Committee Chair Folska confirmed her attendance
for this event.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Committee Chair Folska noted that Mike Dino from Squire Patton Boggs was
not in attendance due to a scheduling conflict. She referred the Directors to
the Federal Update included in the Government Relations Committee Agenda
packet for July 14, 2015. The update included information on the MAP-21
and Highway Trust Fund (HTF) long and short term solutions as well as
Fiscal Year 2016 Transportation/Housing and Urban Development
Appropriations Bill.
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, indicated that the House of
Representatives just introduced another MAP-21 bill that would provide
short term reauthorization. She noted that the Senate is against any short
term extension as they would like to see a six year bill. Sherry Ellebracht
said it would be magical how they would come up with a long term funding
solution, making a short term funding more likely. She added that the House
Committee on Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan is trying to buy some
time to come up with some tax reform. The bill should be on the floor
tomorrow.

Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

He noted that Wheat Ridge will include a ballot measure looking to limit the
Urban Renewal Authority and City Council in approving Tax Increment
Financing over $2.5 million.

6.F

Committee Chair Folska stated that Congress does not have a collision of
courage to pass something like a gas tax to fund the HTF. She shared a
couple of conversations she recently had: one with a Transportation Planner
professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and another with a
Transportation Planner professor at the University of California at Berkley.
She noted that both professors thought that a percentage and not a regular
tax would be more beneficial in funding the HTF. She suggested this may
be something for Squire Patton Boggs to think about and evaluate.

Director Francone encouraged the Directors to actively search for opportunities to
talk to the State Legislators from their District and educate them on what RTD
does. She mentioned that it was clear from the questions during the Transportation
Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) that a lot of the legislators do not know what
RTD does and how the agency interconnects with the Colorado Department of
Transportation and the Denver Regional Council of Governments.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 4, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 74

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 14, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

D. Other Matters

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

6.G

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
July 16, 2015 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to OrderExecutive Committee Agenda
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 12:05 p.m.
Committee members present:
Committee member absent:
Other Board members present:
Others present:
II.

Chair Sisk, 1st Vice-Chair Tobiassen, 2nd Vice-Chair
Menten, and Treasurer Hoy.
Jeff Walker
Director James, Director Folska (via phone)
Interim General Manager Genova, Paula Perdue

July Board Meeting Agenda Review

Chair Sisk requested a review of the agenda. He noted the special awards to the winners
of the International rail roadeo. Interim General Manager Genova indicated that he will be
doing a special recognition for the APTA Gold Safety Award. Interim General Manager
Genova also noted that there is an action item on the agenda for the approval of the 2016
Interim General Manager Goals so the Chair of the GM Oversight and Performance
Management Committee may have an update. Paula Perdue noted that GM/CEO
goalsetting is a session on the APTA TBM seminar this week and it will be interesting to
hear how other agencies are handling this responsibility.
Chair Sisk noted a number of items were on the recommended action agenda.
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve
moving this agenda before the full Board on July
28.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Chair Sisk noted that the award of the contract for group 26 fixed
route service was approved 13 to 1. The US 36 BRT Service Plan had
passed 10 to 4. He understands there are still some issues coming

Packet Pg. 75

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 16, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

from Boulder around midday service express and anticipates members
from that community will speak at the Board meeting on the 28th.
Director Hoy reflected on the vote in committee and observed that
although Chair Sisk had indicated he would vote no to keep the
conversation alive, several other Board members indicated they would
vote no also. This leads him to conclude that their reason for voting
no may be different than just keeping the conversation alive. Director
Menten inquired about the reason for the midday service. Interim
General Manager Genova talked about the ridership and stated the
midday service would require four buses per hour at each station.
This would give the expectation of 15-minute service from each
station which is not the service station planning model for US 36.
They have worked diligently with the US 36 community and have
heard clearly the US 36 community desires predictability and this
would not provide that type of predictability. There is a cost factor
to providing the midday service of approximately $400K just for the
service plus an additional amount of $1.2M for capital. Director Hoy
expressed there could be some concerns and tradeoffs from the
other communities along the way who would see express service
with low ridership breezing down US 36 while they would not have
access to this service. Director Hoy conveyed his understanding that
the proposed all-stop service will be five minutes faster than today’s
express service but five minutes slower than the proposed express
service. Director Folska requested clarification of how this was
determined and what does it really mean. Interim General Manager
Genova took an action item to provide a better explanation of this
issue of impact on travel times and how it compares with current
service.
Chair Sisk concurred that definitely predictability is needed and that
he has heard different discussions on impact to RTD for express lanes
that we have contributed to but not getting the use.
Chair Sisk noted the voting from the committee on the other items on
the recommended action that includes the SE Rail extension and the
2015-2020 strategic plan. Interim General Manager Genova shared
that the approval of the interim General Manager 2016 goals actually
passed committee unanimously. Paula Perdue responded that
although it appeared to have passed unanimously, what she heard in
that discussion was the need for more discussion and that what she
has heard from other Directors is a desire to discuss this item. She
preemptively made the call to move this to recommended action.

Packet Pg. 76

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 16, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.G

6.G

Vote on
motion:



The Committee approved moving the agenda as
is to the Board meeting on July 28.

Unanimous Consent

It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second
optional year of a three-year contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter
Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc. for $390,318.35. Funding for
this contract amendment is provided by the annual 2015 – 2016 Engineering
Expense Budgets.


Recommended Action
B.

Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route Service

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Interim General Manager, or his designee, be authorized to enter into a contract
with First Transit for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit services in the
Boulder and Longmont areas. This package of service, named “Group 26”,
represents the re-bid of service currently operated by First Transit under a
contracted service package named “Group 22.”
This contract is for three years plus two one year extensions for a total of five
years. The total not-to-exceed five year contract total amount is $63,168,544 for
service and $7,019,978 for fuel. This recommendation represents the most
responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 15-DH-064 to provide “Group 26” Public Transportation Services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective on January 17, 2016.
C.

US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the US 36 BRT (Flatiron Flyer) Service Plan package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A, resulting in an annualized cost of
approximately $991,000 funded through FasTracks and, further, to authorize the
General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

Packet Pg. 77

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 16, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

A.
Contract Amendment; 2nd Optional Year of 2013-2015 Street
Improvements & Shelter Installations Contract; # 33DM005

6.G

D.
Resolution No. _________, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of
Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A

E.
Authorization to Amend Contract with NewPush for Expansion of Smart
Media Technology Hosting Service
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to amend
the contract with NewPush to expand Smart Media Technology (SMT) hosting
services to increase the contract not-to-exceed amount by an additional
$1,440,000 to a total contract value of $1,729,500 and extend the period of
performance for the current and additional services for three additional optional
years. The additional services are needed for SMT stored value system security
and high availability. Of the $1,440,000 contract value, the Board of Directors
approved $500,000 for these hosting services in March 2015 along with other
SMT items. The remaining $940,000 equates to $333,333 per year for the
remaining three years of the contract that will be funded in the 2016-2021
operating budget.
F.
Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager
to Execute a Design Build Contract and other Agreements for the Southeast Rail
Extension
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the Chair of the RTD Board of
Directors and the General Manager, whether interim or permanent, or their officers
or delegates to execute grant agreements, a two phase design-build contract,
intergovernmental agreements (IGAs), purchase and sale contracts, documents
evidencing property interests, and such other agreements as are necessary or
appropriate for the construction of the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) and to
accept third party contributions and increase the project budget by such third party
contribution amounts to implement third party requested betterments, all according
to the terms set forth in the Resolution.

Packet Pg. 78

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 16, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Certificates of
Participation, Series 2015A.

6.G

G.

2015-2020 Strategic Plan

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2015-2020 RTD Strategic Plan.
Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors approve the Interim General
Manager’s goals for 2016 as defined in the attached General Manager’s
Performance Evaluation Form.

III.

APTA Transit Board Member Seminar Update
Paula Perdue provided an update status of this event. Things are progressing nicely and
the team is engaged to work out the last set of details. Board members have been given
their packets and if they have any questions, now is the time to ask. We are depending
on them to help us move our guests efficiently through our system which will be
complicated a little on Monday evening with the Rockies game. The official opening starts
on Sunday at 8:30 and culminates in the Coors Field BBQ hoedown. Everyone including
the Board members will need to check-in for this event. Sunday is “Meet in the Street”
mall day so no shuttles will be running on the 16 Street mall. We will have a couple of
artic buses to pick guest up from the Hyatt beginning at 5:30 p.m. and looping every 15
minutes.
Monday is the day for interesting discussion around transit as a catalyst for economic
development. We will also have presenters on fundamentals of transit financing.
Tours will start promptly at 12:00. We need the “hosting Board members” to help keep
us on task and time.
We are also challenging our Board members to be engaged with our guest Board members
and come back with at least one nugget that they heard that could be applicable to RTD.

IV.

Other Matters


Director Folska identified two items: (1) It appears the light rail has been having
more problems with switching and wet surfaces. She wonders if it has anything
to do with state of good repair. She asked Interim General Manager Genova to
review some of the causes for service delay. Interim General Manager Genova
indicated we have not had more problems than before Austin Jenkins had left and
he just thinks that as usage increases, we start to see issues for a variety of
reasons.

Packet Pg. 79

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 16, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

H.

(2) In honor of the ADA Silver anniversary, she would like to see a proclamation
expressing RTD’s support and plans to be proactive in the employment of ADA.
Paula Perdue requested a point of clarity around the request for a proclamation.
She explained that proclamations can be ceremonial or can be an action item
approved by the full Board. Is the desire to make this an action item or ceremonial?
She expressed concern that the full Board has not taken a position on this
employment issue and would it be appropriate to include this type of language in a
proclamation. Dave Genova indicated that he thought we already have equal
opportunity in the area of employment. Director Folska used as an example the
language on the application form that talks to ability to lift weights, be able to see,
etc. that is a generic comment on each of our applications. She recognizes this is
important in some positions but having this as a unilateral statement for other
positions where sight is not mandatory is viewed as a barrier to the visually
impaired to apply for positions. She perceives this to be discriminatory.







V.

Chair Sisk indicated it would be his desire to have a proclamation expressing
support of the ADA silver anniversary but that an action item on employment or
other issues should come out of the civil rights committee.
Chair Sisk referenced the article on the front page of the Denver Post in regard to
former employee Kenn Hardin. Interim General Manager Genova recognized this
could be damaging to RTD and indicated they have been monitoring calls from the
media and so far had not received any about this article.
Chair Sisk indicated that Director Lubow had requested a meeting on protocols and
how to handle especially as we prepare for the openings in 2016. Director James
asked what was the specific concern and Chair Sisk shared the concern around the
CDOT event where he had been asked to speak. Paula Perdue added that the issue
of protocol is more inclusive than this and that if we are addressing protocols, we
need to address other concerns expressed around protocols such as Directors going
to other Director’s district or events without notification to the representing
Director.
Chair Sisk referenced the private citizen who had been arrested at our last meeting
due to being a disruption to the meeting. Some discussion was held around the
cause of the arrest and that this is not a normal occurrence. Director Menten
expressed some concerns around the arrest and 90-day suspension and wanted
more details on the implications. Interim General Manager Genova agreed to follow
up on this issue with her.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 1:15 p.m.

Packet Pg. 80

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 16, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.G

6.G

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jul 16, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 81

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

9.A

Board of Directors

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
June 16, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Sisk asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Paula Perdue called roll. There were fourteen (14) members present at roll call. Director
James was absent.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:34 PM
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:02 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:36 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:33 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Absent

5:33 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:35 PM
5:32 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:32 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:36 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:13 PM

Staff Present:

Richard H. Baker, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Heather
Copp, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Mike Gil, Erin

Packet Pg. 82

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J

9.A

Others Present:

IV.

Christine de la Luna, Davian Gagne, Sherman Hamilton, Shame
Tempel, Armando Tiscarno, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

Retiree Awards
Mike Gil, Deputy AGM, introduced Richard Baker, Bus Operator of almost 22 years. He
noted that this was actually Richard’s second career. Richard followed his dad into law
enforcement for 28 years before coming to RTD. He was a Sheriff in Nebraska on an
Indian Reservation, Police Chief in Erie, Police Chief in Dacono and Police Chief in Hanah,
WY. Mike Gil said that Richard drove in the Boulder division for 20 of his 20+ years.
Richard is 77 years of age and is going to continue working with RTD as a part-time
undercover ride monitor. Mike Gil said that Boulder would miss him as a full-time driver
but we will welcome him as a ride monitor.
Richard thanked the Board for the award. He said this was the first award he had
received. He appreciates the many people he has worked with at RTD; they are the
backbone of this company. He recognized that there are good people throughout the
company, especially the managers.

V.

Public Participation
Bob Wilson, Arvada, shared that he recently heard several radio reports that he thought
might be beneficial for the Board to hear. One was an interview with the new Director of
CDOT. Bob Wilson noted that he did not mention transit specifically, which was a missed
opportunity, but it was very good from a board policy perspective. The other program
was an interview with a local reporter discussing the first train coming into Denver
International Airport.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

Packet Pg. 83

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Pauletta Tonilas,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma

9.A

Chair Sisk asked if there were any changes to the committee reports. There were none.

GM Executive Search Committee Update
Chair Sisk reported that the Committee is making great progress. The Employee Listening
Sessions are continuing throughout this week. Chair Sisk and Director Tobiassen will be
meeting with the Union representatives as well. He commended all the Directors, and
most importantly the employees, for taking their time to participate in this important
activity. Chair Sisk shared that some of the feedback Directors have been hearing is that
the employees would like the opportunity to meet with them once a year. He said that is
something the Directors would like to see happen.
Chair Sisk reminded the Board that there is an Executive Focus group on June 17th. There
will also be another community forum on June 24th. He said that additionally, the Citizens
Advisory Committee will be asked for their input on the General Manager Executive Search
at their meeting on June 17th. Finally, he reminded everyone that there is an online public
questionnaire available. He shared that as of 10:22 a.m. there had already been 365
responses.
Chair Sisk noted that at today’s meeting the Committee reviewed the proposals from
several executive search firms during an executive session. He said that he was pleased
to announce that after the Committee adjourned from executive session they made the
unanimous decision to offer the contract to Krauthamer & Associates.

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Bagley explained that the Committee consisted of six members: Directors
Anderson, Francone, Hoy, Menten, Walker and himself. He said they met this afternoon
to review the 2016 task goals with Interim General Manager Genova. He reminded
everyone that the task goals are determined at a retreat held in March with the Board and
Senior Leadership Team. He stated that the Committee worked with IGM Genova to
ensure the task goals were SMART (specific, measureable, attainable, realistic and timebased). He noted that there would be some minor tweaking between now and the next
Committee meeting on July 7th, at which time the goals will be finalized and sent to the
Board for approval at the July Board Meeting so that they can be incorporated into the
2016 Budget.

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 26, 2015
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of May 26th, 2015.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 84

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

VII.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, and
Walker), 0 opposed and 1 abstention (Hoy). Director
James was absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [13 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Larry Hoy
ABSENT:
Bill James
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

X.

Chair's Report
Chair Sisk commented that he really covered most of his report during his GM Executive
Search Committee Update. He noted that this is a very busy summer for the Board.
Directors Folska, Francone, Lubow and Tobiassen just returned from Washington, D.C. last
week for Accelerate Colorado. He said that several Directors would be traveling next
week to Salt Lake City, UT for the APTA Rail Conference. He reminded everyone that
RTD would be hosting the APTA Transit Board Member and Board Support Seminar from
July 18th – 21st.

XI.

General Manager's Report
Interim General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:
 Meeting with Denver Mayor, Michael Hancock, on Wednesday, May 27th
 Attended the NATA monthly Board meeting on Thursday, May 28th
 Presented and facilitated the RTD FasTracks MOU meeting on Thursday, May 28th
 Conducted employee forums at all RTD divisions and facilities between May 26th
and June 4th
 Attended and provided remarks at the COMTO Annual Scholarship Banquet on
Saturday, May 30th
 Provided introductory remarks and presented RTD’s experience regarding Asset
Management at the Federal Transit Administration’s State of Good Repair
Roundtable on Wednesday, June 3rd
 Meeting with Boulder Chamber of Commerce Executive Director John Tayer on
Thursday, June 4th

Packet Pg. 85

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

9.A







Meeting with Downtown Denver Partnership President Tami Door on Tuesday, June
9th
Meeting with Denver Chamber of Commerce President Kelly Brough and Vice
President Tom Clark on Tuesday, June 9th
RTD participated in the Clinton Global Initiative America Infrastructure for Cities and
States Working Groupon June 9th to 10th
Breakfast meeting with Director Hoy and the Mayors representing Brighton,
Broomfield, Federal Heights and Thornton on Friday, June 12th
Meeting with ATU President, Julio Rivera, and 4 other ATU Executive Board
members on Monday, June 15th

Questions from Board members:
 Director Menten noted that last year the Board was asked to approve a Band-Aid
for the Health and Welfare Trust for the Union. It was her understanding the BandAid would last through the end of this year. She thinks that it is getting close to
when a discussion needs to happen about what to do next. IGM Genova shared
that he was just recently briefed by the three salaried employees that serve as
Trustees. It is his understanding that the Trust is bringing in a consultant to look at
the health plans to recommend plan changes that could result in a savings. The
trust will be meeting again next month so hopefully IGM Genova will have more
information at that time about the options to keep the Trust healthy.
Director Menten asked if the Board would need to approve any extension of the
Band-Aid or additional funding that might be required. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
reminded the Board that last summer there was a significant increase in the ATU’s
plan cost. The RTD/ATU collective bargaining agreement (CBA) defines a fixed
contribution to the Health and Welfare plan and says that the parties will share any
increase in premiums. She explained that this is a self-funded plan so there is not
an outside, objective bill that says the premium is going up by a set dollar amount.
She said the dispute between RTD and ATU was related to how they had chosen to
fund their plan and what they were charging RTD as premiums. Marla Lien stated
that this was resolved by RTD and ATU agreeing as a definition of what could be
included in the premium; however, under the CBA the Board has already agreed to
pay half of the premium so there will be no need for further Board approval.
Director Menten asked who she should contact for any follow-up questions. IGM
Genova said he would be the primary contact. Director Menten commented that
while it did not seem like a lot when looked at as a monthly amount, when looking
at the big picture it was a significant increase in the overall budget. Marla Lien
reiterated that this was the reason for defining what would be considered a
premium. IGM Genova noted that there was also a significant increase in the
employees’ contribution.

Packet Pg. 86

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

9.A



XII.

Director Folska noted that, as mentioned in Chair Sisk’s report, four Directors
attended Accelerate Colorado in Washington, D.C. last week with a Delegation
from Colorado. She shared that one of the things that Congressman Polis was
good to remind the Directors about what that they do not have their train. She said
that she appreciates the reminder but it makes her concerned about the message
that RTD is promoting. She shared that she is excited about the five new lines we
will be opening next year but we do not want anyone to get the impression that
RTD will just transition to operations and leave the Northwest Rail in the dust.

Public Hearing for 2015 Amended Budget
Chair Sisk read the script for the public hearing into record, a copy of which can be found
in the Board office. He asked if there was anyone that would like to speak about the
2015 Amended Budget. Hearing no comments, he closed public comment.
A.

Approval of 2015 Amended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2015 to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2015 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $134.670 million to
$1,520.186 million as detailed below in the overview of the 2015 Amended Budget, and
to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds)
by $315.917 million to $987.198 million.
This action item meets policy requirements and the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal
Sustainability/Financial Plan by effecting current budgeting in a timely manner.
The 2015 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the Amended Budget
column below (in thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from Exhibit I.

Packet Pg. 87

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

9.A

9.A

Operating Expenses, Debt Service, Capital Expenditures, Fund Balances

BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)
Operating Expense

$

Interest Expense

2015 Amended
Budget
$000s

443,366

$

Change

447,565

$

4,199

26,465

24,136

(2,329)

-

-

-

New Capital

94,548

107,232

12,684

Debt Payments

53,733

49,982

(3,751)

FasTracks Internal Savings Account

5,563

5,563

-

Board Appropriated Fund

22,200

22,200

-

Capital Replacement Fund

15,000

15,000

-

Unrestricted Funds

8,555

10,012

1,457

Capitalized Interest

Base System (0.6%) Appropriation

$

669,430

$

681,690

$

12,260

Base System Previously Approved Capital

$

237,738

$

169,860

$

(67,878)

Total Base System Appropriation

$

907,168

$

851,550

2015 Adopted
Budget
$000s

FASTRACKS PROJECT (0.4%)
Operating Expense

$

56,730

2015 Amended
Budget
$000s
$

88,819

Change
$

32,089

Interest Expense

71,007

71,229

222

Capitalized Interest

45,002

45,002

-

New Capital

460,872

547,644

86,772

Debt Payments

8,738

8,960

222

FasTracks Contingency Reserve

30,000

30,000

-

FasTracks Internal Savings Account

12,810

9,674

(3,136)

Board Appropriated Fund

3,154

4,937

1,783

Capital Replacement Fund

3,154

4,937

1,783

Unrestricted Funds

3,154

4,937

1,783

FasTracks Project (0.4%) Appropriation

$

694,621

$

816,139

$

121,518

FasTracks Project Previously Approved Capital

$

1,065,377

$

817,338

$ (248,039)

Total FasTracks Project Appropriation

$

1,759,998

$

1,633,477

Packet Pg. 88

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

2015 Adopted
Budget
$000s

9.A

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS
Operating Expense

$

2015 Amended
Budget
$000s

18,399

$

Change

19,162

$

763

Interest Expense

-

-

-

Capitalized Interest

-

-

-

New Capital

-

-

-

Debt Payments

-

-

-

Board Appropriated Fund

1,022

1,065

43

Capital Replacement Fund

1,022

1,065

43

Unrestricted Funds

1,022

1,065

43

FasTracks Operations Appropriation

$

21,465

$

22,357

FasTracks Operations Previously Approved Cap.

$

-

$

-

Total FasTracks Operations Appropriation

$

21,465

$

22,357

2015 Adopted
Budget
$000s

DISTRICT-WIDE
Operating Expense

$

518,495

$

-

2015 Amended
Budget
$000s
$

555,546

892

Change
$

37,051

Interest Expense

97,472

95,365

(2,107)

Capitalized Interest

45,002

45,002

-

New Capital

555,420

654,876

99,456

Debt Payments

62,471

58,942

(3,529)

FasTracks Contingency Reserve

30,000

30,000

-

FasTracks Internal Savings Account

18,373

15,237

(3,136)

Board Appropriated Fund

26,376

28,202

1,826

Capital Replacement Fund

19,176

21,002

1,826

Unrestricted Funds

12,731

16,014

$

3,283

$

134,670

District-Wide Appropriation

$

1,385,516

$

1,520,186

District-Wide Previously Approved Capital

$

1,303,115

$

987,198

Total District-Wide Appropriation

$

2,688,631

$

2,507,384

$ (315,917)

Packet Pg. 89

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

2015 Adopted
Budget
$000s

9.A

Operating Revenue, Non-Operating Revenue
2015 Adopted
Budget
$000s

BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)
Farebox Revenue

$

Other Operating Revenue

2015 Amended
Budget
$000s

119,342

$

Change

119,342

$

-

5,195

5,245

Sales/Use Tax

321,088

330,821

9,733

Grant Revenue

119,584

106,627

(12,957)

1,160

1,160

-

Investment Income
Other Income
Base System Revenue

2,843
$

2,843
$

2015 Adopted
Budget
$000s

FASTRACKS PROJECT (0.4%)
Farebox Revenue

569,212

$

566,038

$

2015 Amended
Budget
$000s
-

Other Operating Revenue

50

$

(3,174)

Change
-

$

-

-

-

-

Sales/Use Tax

199,681

205,416

5,735

Grant Revenue

165,245

178,656

13,411

Investment Income

3,150

3,150

-

Other Income

8,177

8,177

-

FasTracks Project Revenue

$

$

2015 Adopted
Budget
$000s

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS
Farebox Revenue

376,253

$

Other Operating Revenue

395,399

$

2015 Amended
Budget
$000s

4,022

$

19,146

Change

4,031

$

9

-

-

-

Sales/Use Tax

14,377

15,131

754

Grant Revenue

-

-

-

Investment Income

-

-

-

Other Income

-

-

-

FasTracks Operations Revenue

$

18,399

$

19,162

$

763

Packet Pg. 90

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

The 2015 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and non-operating revenue
which are estimated, not appropriated, below (in thousands), which is a summary of
relevant data from Exhibit I.

9.A

DISTRICT-WIDE
Farebox Revenue

$

Other Operating Revenue

123,364

2015 Amended
Budget
$000s
$

123,373

Change
$

9

5,195

5,245

50

Sales/Use Tax

535,146

551,368

16,222

Grant Revenue

284,829

285,283

454

Investment Income

4,310

4,310

-

Other Income

11,020

11,020

-

District-Wide Revenue

$

963,864

$

980,599

$

16,735

Chair Sisk asked for a motion to approve the 2015 Amended Budget.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the 2015
Amended Budget.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed fourteen in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, hoy,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, and
Walker) and 0 opposed. Director James was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Bill James
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Unanimous Consent
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 91

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

2015 Adopted
Budget
$000s

9.A

Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, and
Walker) and 0 opposed. Director James was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bill James
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

Authorization to Enter Into Contract with INIT for Purchase of Day Pass Printers

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to enter into a
$2,700,000 sole source contract with INIT Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) for
purchase, integration and installation of equipment and software necessary to
accommodate the sale of day-pass fare media under the newly adopted fare structure
(Contract Number 15DH072). This contract will include integration with the Computer
Aided Dispatch/ Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) system, interface changes for the
new fare structure, parking pass validation and a 3-year extended warranty.
C.

Approval of Contract for External Audit Services

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to RubinBrown, LLP to perform RTD’s annual external audit services. The
contract is awarded for audit services for calendar years 2015, 2016 and 2017 in the
amount of $333,500. There is an option to extend the contract for two additional one
year periods, at RTD’s discretion, in the amount of $239,500.
D.

August 2015 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2015 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $279,000 and, further, to

Packet Pg. 92

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

Vote on the

9.A

authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

There were no recommended actions.

XV.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XVI. Old Business
Director Walker reminded everyone that the APTA Transit Board Member and Board
Support Seminar would be in Denver next month, as Chair Sisk mentioned. He thinks that
all Board members with the exception of two or three have signed up. He hopes everyone
will be in attendance. As of today there are 111 registrants, which is almost as many as
attended last year. He has been told that most registrants sign up in the last month so the
numbers look very good. He shared that we are still looking for more sponsors to really
add the “razzle dazzle” to the event.
Director Hoy reminded everyone about the event Trans Forum event taking place next
Thursday that he emailed the Directors about. He said that this is the 3rd year and it really
promises to be a good event. He hopes the Directors will attend it their schedule allows.

XVII. New Business
Director Lasater thanked IGM Genova and staff for their help pulling of a last minute
request to have a Call-n-Ride bus at the Parker Days CarFest. He said it was very well
received and hopefully brought some awareness to those Parker residents that still do not
know about the Call-n-Ride. He thanked the City of Parker, Douglas County and RTD for
working together to get more notoriety for the service.
Director Anderson wanted to share what a pleasant experience it was meeting with the
employees during the GM Executive Search listening session. She is looking forward to
reading the comments from the other sessions. She thought it was very interesting that
that there were some really thoughtful employees.
Director Francone thanked Pauletta Tonilas, Senior Manager of Public Relations and Public
Information, and Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services, for their help with her
Town Hall meeting in Evergreen about the Call-n-Ride. She said the community was very
excited about the service and she thinks we will see ridership increase soon.

XVIII. Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 6:17 p.m.

Packet Pg. 93

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

XIV. Recommended Action

9.A

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 94

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jun 16, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 16, 2015)

Prepared and Transcribed by:

12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: July 9, 2015

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

July 8, 2015

Board Meeting Date: July 28, 2015

Subject:

Contract Amendment; 2nd Optional Year of
2013-2015 Street Improvements & Shelter
Installations Contract; # 33DM005

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
amendment to initiate the second optional year of a three-year contract for the annual Street
Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc. for $390,318.35. Funding
for this contract amendment is provided by the annual 2015 – 2016 Engineering Expense Budgets.
BACKGROUND
Due to the repetitive work of this contract, a three-year contract value was determined to be an
effective way to manage this work for the District. Bids were received and a contract was awarded to
Manion Construction, Inc. as the lowest responsive and responsible bidder in September of 2013. The
current base contract value and amendments are as follows:
Amount

Amendments

Total

Base Year (2013-2014)

$

354,061.25

$

150,000.00

$

504,061.25

First Option Year (2014-2015)

$

371,711.30

$

200,000.00

$

571,711.30

Second Option Year (2015-2016)

$

390,318.35

$

0.00

$

390,318.35

Grand Total: Base Year, Amendments, and 2nd Optional Year $ 1,466,090.90
DISCUSSION
This second optional year amendment will increase the contract by $390,318.35, creating a total
contract amount, which includes this amendment, of $1,466,090.90. Manion Construction has
performed well throughout the term of this contract and has achieved all RTD requirements. The
contract enables work to be performed in a quick, responsive manner.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The Estimated $390,318.35 budget shall come from the 2015 and 2016 Engineering Expense Budgets
dependent on the calendar year in which the work is performed.
DBE/SBE GOAL
Manion Construction Inc. is a SBE certified contractor.

Packet Pg. 95

12.A

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second optional year of a
three-year contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with
Manion Construction, Inc. for $390,318.35. Funding for this contract amendment is provided by
the annual 2015 – 2016 Engineering Expense Budgets.
2. Delay the recommended action. This is not recommended as it will delay the construction of
projects that have been identified for repairs and impact coordination efforts with various
jurisdictions.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to execute all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second year
option of a three-year contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract
with Manion Construction, Inc. Instead develop a new Invitation for Bid (IFB) for this year’s
construction work. This is not recommended because:
a.
b.
c.
d.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:

It would create a delay in constructing the 2015-2016 street improvements.
The current Contractor is providing a good quality product in a reasonable time.
The 2015-2016 contract prices are considered to be fair and reasonable.
The district desires to partner with the DBE/SBE Community and Manion Construction is a
SBE certified contractor.
PASSED BY CONSENT VOTE [12 TO 0]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Anderson, Archuleta, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
Kent Bagley, Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Stan Szabelak, Manager, Civil Engineering
Cory Granrud, Manager, Park-n-Ride Design
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 96

13.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: July 1, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

July 1, 2015

Board Meeting Date: July 28, 2015

Subject:

Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route
Service

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Interim General
Manager, or his designee, be authorized to enter into a contract with First Transit for the provision of
contracted fixed-route transit services in the Boulder and Longmont areas. This package of service,
named “Group 26”, represents the re-bid of service currently operated by First Transit under a
contracted service package named “Group 22.”
This contract is for three years plus two one year extensions for a total of five years. The total notto-exceed five year contract total amount is $63,168,544 for service and $7,019,978 for fuel. This
recommendation represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to
Request for Proposals (RFP) 15-DH-064 to provide “Group 26” Public Transportation Services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective on January 17, 2016.
BACKGROUND:
As a result of a series of State legislative activities over the years, and in support of the Board
adopted strategic goal of Innovative and Fiscally Sustainable Service Delivery, RTD outsources a
portion of the delivery of its fixed route bus service.
On May 1, 2015, a Request for Proposals (RFP) 15-DH-064 was issued soliciting proposals for the
provision of fixed-route transit services in the Boulder and Longmont areas. This package of services
was named “Group 26” and consists of 75 buses operating 15 routes providing approximately
188,679 revenue hours per year. A summary of the routes included in “Group 26” is included as
Attachment A. Responses to the proposals were due on June 8, 2015. Proposers were required to
provide detailed operating plans for providing fixed-route service, including hiring and training
employees, maintaining RTD-provided transit vehicles, and conforming to RTD operating
requirements. The contract award was anticipated to be awarded on a fixed-price basis and based
on “best value” competitive proposal procedures.
DISCUSSION:
Four (4) proposals were received in response to RFP 15-DH-064 for the Provision of Group 26 Public
Transportation Services. Proposals were received from First Transit, MV Transportation, National
Express Transit, and Transdev.
The proposals were evaluated on the following evaluative criteria: a) understanding/approach and
organization for implementation (35%); b) experience/qualifications and safety record (30%); c) price
(30%); and d) SBE plan and goal attainment (5%).
The technical evaluation team consisted of Mike Gil, Deputy AGM, Bus Operations; Steve Gieske,
General Superintendent, Maintenance; Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services; and

Packet Pg. 97

13.B

Greg Smith, Manager, Competitive Services. The technical evaluation team reviewed and scored
each proposal based on a) understanding/approach and organization for implementation and b)
experience/qualifications and safety record.
The SBE plan and goal attainment evaluation team consisted of Amanda Murray, Civil Rights
Specialist.
The scores for pricing were provided by the Procurement Department staff.
The following is a summary of the strengths and weaknesses of the four proposals:
First Transit – First Transit was the highest rated proposal for technical understanding and experience
and qualifications. The key strengths of the First Transit proposal were the proposed management team.
Under this team’s leadership, the First Transit Boulder/Longmont division consistently meets/exceeds
RTD quarterly performance goals. The team has developed and nurtured positive and productive
relationships with Boulder and Longmont governments and communities. The team is experienced in
providing service for RTD and there will be no disruption of service when transitioning from the previous
“Group 22” contract to the new “Group 26” contract. First Transit proposed increases to the current
headcount in finance and operator instruction departments. The local operation is also supported by
experienced professionals at the Regional level.
Weaknesses of the First Transit proposal included the recent/relevant required experience of the
Operations Manager and no dedicated customer service representative position was identified.
MV Transportation - The strengths of the MV Transportation proposal included a reasonable start up
plan, module based training and some key personnel with previous RTD fixed-route experience. The MV
Transportation proposal was determined to be weak in the areas of the vehicle maintenance plan; facility
plan; and personnel plan.
National Express - The strengths of the National Express proposal included a reasonable recruitment plan
and approach to operations. The National Express proposal was determined to be weak in the areas of
the vehicle maintenance plan; facility plan; staffing plan; and the recent/relevant required experience of
the management team.
Transdev - The strengths of the Transdev proposal included previous experience providing RTD fixedroute service, a strong safety program, and approach to the operation. The Transdev proposal was
determined to be weak in the areas of facility plan; staffing plan; and the recent/relevant required
experience of some members of the management team.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The First Transit five-year cost was $5,269,015 less than the highest bid and $1,227,756 higher
than the lowest bid. Please see the Group 26 - Proposer Service Cost Summary below:
Group 26 - Proposer Service Cost Summary (without fuel)
Proposers

Five year Cost

Five-Year Difference

One-Year Difference

First Transit

63,168,544

MV Transportation

63,775,193

606,649

121,330

Transdev

68,437,559

5,269,015

1,053,803

National Express

61,940,788

(1,227,756)

(245,551)

Packet Pg. 98

13.B

This contract is for an initial three-year amount not to exceed $36,553,933 with two (2) one-year
options in the amount of $13,042,297 (option year 1) and $13,572,314 (option year 2), for a total
five-year not-to-exceed amount of $63,168,544 for service. In addition, RTD will reimburse the
contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be approximately $4,087,413 for the initial
three-year contract term, $1,443,284 for option year 1, and $1,489,282 for option year 2, for a
total of $7,019,978 for the five-year period. This results in a total not-to-exceed contract amount of
$40,641,346 for the initial three year contract period and $70,188,522 for the five year period.
First Transit’s proposed first year price for “Group 26” is .8% lower than the current contract price
of the “Group 22” contract that it replaces. First Transit’s proposed hourly rates for the five-year
period of the proposed contract range from $62.43 (contract year 1) to $69.13 (contract year 5).
The hourly rates for RTD’s other current fixed-route contracts range from $60.06-$64.50 (current
contract year) to $65.30-$72.75 (contract year 5). The total five-year proposed price represents a
$2.6 million savings over the estimated cost for RTD to provide the service.
In addition to the hourly costs paid to the Contractor for the provision of service, the actual diesel
fuel costs incurred by the Contractor in the provision of the specified service will be paid by the
District through the contact. RTD will reimburse the actual cost for diesel fuel to the Contractor as a
separate cost item.
GROUP 26 – Contract Cost Summary (with fuel)
Initial 3 year
contract term

Option year 1

Option year 2

Total 5 year

Service cost

$36,553,933

$13,042,297

$13,572,314

$63,168,544

Fuel cost (RTD
estimate)

$4,087,413

$1,443,284

$1,489,282

$7,019,978

Total contract

$40,641,346

$14,485,581

$15,061,596

$70,188,522

The RTD internal financial analysis (Attachment B) indicates that the estimated cost for RTD to
provide these services would be higher than the prices offered by the recommended service provider.
The estimated cost of internal operation was prepared by RTD’s Finance Department and is based on
current and projected wage rates and other operating expenses based on RTD’s current experience
providing other fixed-route services. In addition to estimating the cost for RTD to provide the services
included in the “Group 26” service package, the cost of providing a facility to serve as the operating
and maintenance base for the provision of the services is also included in the estimated cost of RTD
operation. This is done in order to evaluate the total cost that would be incurred by RTD to provide
the services. RTD currently does not have the capacity to provide these additional services without
building or leasing additional facilities to serve as the operating and maintenance base for the
provision of the services. The cost of providing facilities to serve as the operating and maintenance
base for First Transit’s provision of the services is included in First Transit’s Direct Service Cost as
shown in Attachment B.
Funds for the provision of the first year of service under this contract will be included in the
requested 2016 RTD budget. There are no proposed start-up costs, and therefore, there is no impact

Packet Pg. 99

13.B

on the 2015 budget. Funds will be requested in future budgets for the provision of service in future
years.
ALTERNATIVES:
1)
Award the contract to First Transit, as recommended
2)
Award the contract to the second ranked proposer (MV Transportation). This is not
recommended as it does not reflect the outcome of the evaluation team’s evaluation
process and RTD’s procurement process.
3)
Resolicit the Group 26 service package. This is not recommended as the proposal
process has resulted in a responsive and responsible proposal that is less expensive
than RTD is currently paying for the provision of these services, is less expensive than
the RTD internal cost estimate (ICE) and is less expensive than the estimated cost for
RTD to provide these services internally.
ATTACHMENTS:


Attachment A (XLSX)



Attachment B (XLSX)



Chart

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:

(XLSX)

PASSED [14 TO 0]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Gary Lasater

Prepared by:
Greg Smith, Manager, Competitive Services
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 100

13.B.a

PRIVATE CONTRACTOR ROUTES
as of 1/4/15

ROUTE NAME

Series
900
3800
3900

Series
5000
5100
5200

2 leased 2005 low floor 40' Gilligs
8 leased 2006 low floor 40' Gilligs
25 leased 2006 low floor 40' Gilligs

*40' bus required unless otherwise noted
C denotes 25' small bus, M denotes 30' medium-duty bus, T denotes 40' transit coach
WKDY
SAT
SUN
BUS*
GROUP

204

TABLE MESA/MOORHEAD/NORTH 19TH

X

X

X

205

28TH STREET/GUNBARREL

X

X

X

206

PEARL/EISENHOWER

X

208

IRIS/VALMONT

X

209

CU/ THUNDERBIRD

X

225

BOULDER/LAFAYETTE VIA BASELINE

X

X

323

SKYLINE CROSSTOWN

X

X

C

22

324

MAIN STREET - CROSSTOWN

X

X

C

22

326

NORTHSIDE LOOP - CLOCKWISE
NORTHSIDE LOOP - COUNTERCLOCKWISE

X

X

C

22

X

X

C

BOND

30TH STREET

X

X

DASH

BOULDER/LAFAYETTE VIA LOUISVILLE

X

JUMP
STMP

BOULDER/ LAFAYETTE VIA ARAPAHOE
CU EAST CAMPUS

X
X

Y

LYONS/BOULDER

X

327

M

22
22
22

X

M/T

22
22

X

X

22

22

X

M

22

X

M/T

22

X

M

22
22
22

NOTE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SUNDAY
SERVICE
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE
1 BLOCK
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICE

Attachment: Attachment A (2432 : Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route Service)

FIRST TRANSIT LONGMONT
GROUP 26/January 17, 2016
6 leased 2008 Startrans (C)
26 leased 2000 30' Gilligs (M)
8 leased 2008 30' Gilligs (M)

Packet Pg. 101

Total Revenue Service Hours
First Transit Cost
Direct Service Cost
Fuel Cost
Startup Cost
Total Annual Cost

$
$
$
$

Cost per Revenue Hour

RTD Cost
Direct Service Cost
Fuel Cost
Startup Cost (Amortized)
Facility Cost
Total Annual Cost
Cost per Revenue Hour

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Three-Year
Total

188,679

190,397

192,301

571,377

11,779,086
1,321,583
13,100,669

$
$
$
$

$69.43

$
$
$
$
$

11,359,433
1,203,205
199,500
615,115
13,377,253
$70.90

12,164,734
1,362,387
13,527,121

$
$
$
$

$71.05

$
$
$
$
$

11,745,081
1,244,123
199,500
649,897
13,838,599
$72.68

12,610,113
1,403,443
14,013,556

$
$
$
$

$72.87

$
$
$
$
$

12,320,414
1,285,179
199,500
671,343
14,476,435
$75.28

36,553,933
4,087,413
40,641,346

$
$
$
$

$71.13

$
$
$
$
$

35,424,928
3,732,506
598,500
1,936,354
41,692,288
$72.97

Option Yr 1

Option Yr 2

Five-Year Total

194,224

196,340

961,941

13,042,297
1,443,284
14,485,581

$
$
$
$

$74.58

$
$
$
$
$

12,913,547
1,325,019
199,500
692,155
15,130,221
$77.90

13,572,314
1,489,282
15,061,596

$
$
$
$

$76.71

$
$
$
$
$

13,712,213
1,370,306
199,500
697,026
15,979,045
$81.38

63,168,544
7,019,978
70,188,522
$72.97

$
$
$
$
$

62,050,688
6,427,831
997,499
3,325,535
72,801,554
$75.68

Attachment: Attachment B (2432 : Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route Service)

13.B.b

Packet Pg. 102

13.B.c

Cost per Revenue Hour
$85

$80
$77.90
$76.71
$75.28
$75
$72.68
$70.90
$70

$75.68
$74.58
$72.97

$72.87

$71.05

$69.43

$65

$60
Year 1

Year 2

Year 3
First Transit

Option Yr 1
RTD

Option Yr 2

Five-Year Total

Attachment: Chart (2432 : Award of Contract for Group 26 Fixed Route Service)

$81.38

Packet Pg. 103

13.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: June 30, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

June 29, 2015

Board Meeting Date: July 28, 2015

Subject:

US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the US 36 BRT (Flatiron Flyer) Service Plan package as revised and summarized in Attachment
A, resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $991,000 funded through FasTracks and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
BACKGROUND
The US 36 corridor connects Boulder and downtown Denver via six stations along US Highway 36:
Westminster Center, Church Ranch, Broomfield, Flatiron, McCaslin, and Table Mesa. These stations are
accessible using highway on-ramps, off-ramps, or bus only lanes. Denver Union Station (DUS) is the
primary terminal for routes serving downtown Denver, while a single route (HX) serves Civic Center
Station (CCS) in Downtown Denver. Regional transit services have a few configurations for travelling
through Boulder after Table Mesa. Most routes on the corridor will terminate at Boulder Transit Center
(BTC) via Table Mesa Drive and Broadway Street with a connection to the University of Colorado
Boulder. A second, peak period only travel path, involves buses continuing westbound on US 36
traveling to East Boulder via 28th Avenue.
The US 36 corridor is currently served by a total of twelve routes: AB, BF, BMX, BV, BX, DM, HX, L,
LX, S, T, and 86X. All of these routes operate with high capacity, highway coaches, except for the 86X
which utilizes high capacity, articulated buses. Routes AB, L, and LX will not be a part of the service
plan recommendations but are evaluated as part of the existing conditions analysis.
The four B routes, BV, BF, BMX, BX, each represent a different service pattern between Boulder Transit
Center and Denver Union Station. BV is the all-stop service, providing a connection to each of the six
stations as well the local stops between Table Mesa and Boulder Transit Center. BV operates all day and
is oriented towards the reverse-commute, heading westbound to Boulder in the AM peak and eastbound
to Denver in the PM peak. BMX and BX are limited-stop express services that serve Boulder Transit
Center, Table Mesa, and McCaslin (BMX). These routes supplement BV service with each route
operating a 15 minute frequency during the peak periods. BF is a short-line route that connects
Broomfield, Church Ranch, and DUS. BF is a peak period service that operates in the peak direction,
eastbound to Denver in the AM peak and westbound to Broomfield in the PM peak.
Route 86X operates between Westminster Center and DUS. This route provides frequent, peak only
service, travelling eastbound during the AM peak and westbound towards Westminster during the PM
peak.
Routes S and HX are the only two routes that currently serve East Boulder. Route S provides reversecommute, peak period service between DUS and East Boulder while Route HX offers passengers a peak-

Packet Pg. 104

13.C

direction, alternative connection into downtown Denver, terminating at Civic Center Station. This is the
only route on the US 36 corridor that serves Civic Center Station.
Routes DM, and T are low frequency, peak period routes with unique terminals outside of downtown
Denver. Route DM serves the Anschutz Medical Campus, and Route T serves the Denver Tech Center.
Routes L and LX connect Denver and Longmont. These primarily peak-oriented services access the
corridor via the stations at Westminster, Broomfield, and DUS.
Route AB provides SkyRide service to Denver International Airport (DIA) from Boulder Transit Center
serving Table Mesa, McCaslin, Broomfield, and Westminster.
DISCUSSION
The US 36 Managed Lanes/Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Project seeks to address US 36 traffic congestion
issues through physical highway improvements and transit service enhancements. The project involves
physical improvements such as the partial reconstruction of US 36 and the addition of two managed
lanes. These managed lanes will extend the existing HOV lane for high-occupancy vehicles and will also
allow single-occupancy vehicles to utilize the lanes by paying a toll. The construction project also adds
queue jump lanes at interchanges that serve the bus stations. The managed lanes and queue jump lanes
will improve BRT operations by incrementally reducing travel times and increasing service reliability. The
project will also include improvements to the existing US 36 bus stations, such as the construction of
new shelters, and added RTD operational funding; all to further enhance regional transit service along
the US 36 corridor between Denver and Boulder.
Pursuant to the Board policy on service changes, service plans for the implementation of the US 36 BRT
(Flatiron Flyer) and connecting transit network are included herein. The service plan aims to direct RTD’s
resources for the corridor in a manner that maximizes benefits for the agency and its customers.
Ridership growth will come from current customers making the same trip more often or new trips;
improved retention of current customers; and new customers making trips. The main guiding principles
for the development of the US36 BRT Service plan are:





Reduced travel time
Improved service reliability
Increase customer comprehension/ease of use
Match service levels with ridership demand

The immediate strategy is to simplify transit travel in the corridor by minimizing the number of different
services while providing spontaneous-use frequency where supported by market demand.
As a result, the resources for Routes BF, BMX, BV, BX, HX, S, T, and 86X are proposed to be
consolidated into four routes branded as the Flatiron Flyer:
1. All Station Denver-Boulder Transit Center (BTC) (All Station)
2. Express Denver-BTC (Ltd)
3. Denver-Westminster-Broomfield (DWB)
4. Boulder Junction-Civic Center (BJCC). Boulder Transit Center-Anschutz (DM) would be a BRT
route independent from the Flatiron Flyer Line
5. The fifth Flatiron Flyer route is the DM, which remains unchanged.

Packet Pg. 105

13.C

The US 36 BRT service is slated to begin January 17, 2016. While many suggestions for service
changes routinely are offered and considered, a formal public input process for the US 36 corridor began
with the Environmental Impact Study in late (November) 2003.
This included discussions with the public that determined the layout of the managed lanes from Table
Mesa to Pecos, as well as Bus Rapid Transit operations on those HOV lanes, and late on in the process
also included Bus-on-Shoulder operations, for routes serving all stations along the corridor. It also
included some minor local feeder route change suggestions.
The Preliminary US 36 BRT Service Plan was updated and taken to local governments and stakeholders
in late 2014 and to the public in early 2015. It was also available for anyone to review on RTD’s
Website. E-mail contacts were also made with local governments, including supplying them with links to
the preliminary draft plan. Revisions were made with the information gleaned from these sources and
the Draft Plan was brought to the RTD Board in February 2015 for review and permission to proceed to
public meetings for the US 36 Corridor service. The public meetings were held in April 2015 and further
revisions were made to the draft plan. Staff also met in this period with staff members of local
municipalities along the corridor, as well as other stakeholders such as Boulder, County, CU Boulder and
US 36 Commuting Solutions, to discuss potential adjustments in the corridor service. Throughout this
period, suggestions and questions from the general public and institutional stakeholders continued to be
received. Briefings with RTD Board members also continued during this period (April 2015 through June
2015) and adjustments to the Draft plan continued to be made during this period.
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
RTD held a total of 5 public hearings between March 16 and April 13, 2015 within the communities of
Boulder, Broomfield, Louisville and Westminster as well as Downtown Denver. Overall, more than 200
public citizens attended the hearings and gave a total of 77 verbal comments. A summary of these
comments can be found in Attachment B (Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments). In addition,
RTD received 189 comments via email (Attachment C: Summary of Electronically Received Public
Comments). Also received were several petitions and letters (Attachment D: Petitions and Letters
received). Staff assessed the key comments and based on input received, as well as additional analysis
conducted concluded that some changes to the initial plans were appropriate.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following represent substantive changes proposed to
the service changes initially communicated to the Board of Directors for implementation as part of the
US 36 BRT Service Plan. These changes were discussed with the Board at the June 9, 2015 Operations
and Customer Services Committee Meeting.
Route 206 – Pearl/Manhattan/Fairview High School: the proposal to increase in frequency from 30
minutes to 15 minutes in the peaks, has been rescinded to offset the cost of a new branch to BJCC
pattern (Rte S)
Route AB – Boulder/ Denver Airport (DIA): proposed routing change via Northwest Parkway and E-470
would be delayed until opening of A-Line to Denver Airport in Spring 2016
Route BJCC – Boulder Junction/ Civic Center Station: US 36 & East Flatiron Circle Station was added as
a new stop
Route DWB – Denver/Westminster/Broomfield: US 36 & Church Ranch Station was added as a new
stop

Packet Pg. 106

13.C

Route S: 3 AM peak and 3 PM reverse peak additional trips were proposed, as a branch of the new
BJCC pattern, in order to better directly serve the CU campus along Arapahoe and the Flatiron Business
Park
As a result of the consolidation of services, the five (5) identified related Flatiron Flyer BRT patterns
would be renamed as follows:
Route All-Station (BV): would become Route FF1- All-Station
Route Express (BMX): would become Route FF2 - Express
Route Denver/Broomfield (DWB): would become Route FF3 – Denver/ Broomfield
Route combination HX/S (BJCC): would become Route FF4 – Boulder/ Civic Center Station
Route DM would be considered a BRT route, but not as a part of the Flatiron Flyer Line routes; it would
remain as is and be renamed as follows:
Route DM (Boulder/ Anschutz Medical Campus): would become Route FF5 – Boulder/ Anschutz Medical
Campus
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Based on the Memorandum to the US 36 Mayors/Commissioners Coalition from July 18, 2012, an
agreement was reached as to the US 36 BRT (Bus Rapid Transit) Funding Levels. The major points of
agreement also included that service increase will be as ridership warrants, based on the RTD Service
Standards and funded by travel time savings on existing service resulting from the express lanes, and
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) funding from the FasTracks plan (increasing commitment over time)
The O & M funding available for the US 36 BRT service assumed in the FasTracks financial plan is
shown below. These funding levels, along with the US 36 Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) were
used to determine the service levels for opening day and beyond. In considering this service plan, the
FasTracks Financial Plan Operations and Maintenance Assumptions for years 2015 and 2016 were
combined, which provides the funding for the services slated for the January 17, 2016 implementation.
Subsequent years (2017 – 2019) are slightly out of balance, with budgeted resources being slightly less
than the projected cost for the service. However, by 2020 the financial plan provides a budget that is
slightly overfunded, and provides the capacity for additional service that may be warranted.

Packet Pg. 107

13.C

ATTACHMENTS:


Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (PDF)



Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments



Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (PDF)



Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36

(PDF)

(PDF)

Packet Pg. 108

13.C

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:

PASSED [14 TO 0]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Gary Lasater

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 109

13.C.a

1

Proposed Service Plan
The immediate strategy is to simplify the corridor by minimizing the number of different
services while providing spontaneous-use frequency where supported by market demand.
As a result, the resources for Routes BF, BMX, BV, BX, DM, HX, S, T, and 86X have been
consolidated into five routes: the all-stop BRT service; the limited-stop BRT service; the
short-turn service (DWB); Boulder Junction at Depot Square (BJDS) to Center-Civic Center
(BJCC); and Boulder Transit Center to Anschutz (DM). The short-turn service provides a
connection between Broomfield, Church Ranch, Westminster Center, and DUS while the
limited-stop route connects DUS, McCaslin, Table Mesa, and BTC. BJCC service (Route
HX) will now offer 15 minute, bi-directional service during the peak periods to support the
new development in east Boulder. In addition, Route S will be maintained, as part of the
BJCC route, with 3 AM and 3 PM reverse-peak trips in order to continue direct service to
CU as well as Flatiron Business Park. Boulder-Anschutz (Route DM) will remain unchanged
from its present operation. The routes in the proposed service plan each have a unique role
and generate enough demand to warrant their inclusion on the corridor.
Proposed Service Patterns

X
X
X
X

X

X
X
X
X

X

X
X

X
X

X
X

X
X
X

X
X
X

X

Boulder Junction at
Depot Square

X

Flatiron Business Pk

X

Boulder Transit
Center

X

Boulder Junction – Union Station*

X

Table Mesa

X

Boulder Junction -Civic Center

X

McCaslin

Boulder TC-Anschutz

Flatiron

Denver-Westminster-Broomfield

Broomfield

Limited-Stop Denver-Boulder TC

Church Ranch

X
X
X

All-Stop Denver-Boulder TC

Westminster Center

Civic Center

BRT Route

Denver Union Station

Proposed US 36 Service Patterns by Route

X

X
X

*Route S with service via Flatiron Business Park; 3AM & 3PM reverse-peak trips
Proposed Service Frequencies (Weekday)

Proposed Weekday Frequencies by Time Period
BRT Route

Westbound to Boulder

Eastbound to Denver

AM Peak

Midday

PM Peak

AM Peak

Midday

All-Stop Denver-Boulder TC

15

15

15

15

15

Limited-Stop Denver-Boulder TC

10

10

10

Denver-Westminster-Broomfield

15

15

Boulder TC-Anschutz

30

30

15

15

Boulder Junction-Civic Center

Boulder Junction – Union Station*

15

3 trips

*Route S with service via Flatiron Business Park; 3AM & 3PM reverse-peak trips

PM Peak
15
10

15

3 trips

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015

Packet Pg. 110

2

13.C.a

2030

2035

Table 1: Proposed US 36 AM Peak Service Levels

Boulder – Denver

Eastbound

McCaslin – Denver

Broomfield –
Denver

Westminster –
Denver

Westbound

Denver –
Westminster
Denver –
Broomfield
Denver – McCaslin

Denver – Boulder

Existing
(JAN15)

Initial MCC Memo

Proposed
Service
Plan

2020

13 bus/hr
(4.6 min)

15 bus/hr
(4 min)

16 bus/hr
(3.75 min)

16 bus/hr
(3.75 min)

20 bus/hr
(3 min)

12.7 bus/hr
(4.7 min)

14 bus/hr
(4.3 min)

16 bus/hr
(3.75 min)

16 bus/hr
(3.75 min)

20 bus/hr
(3 min)

7.7 bus/hr
(7.8 min)

8 bus/hr
(7.5 min)

14 bus/hr
(4.3 min)

10 bus/hr
(6 min)

12 bus/hr
(5 min)

11.7 bus/hr
(5.1 min)

8 bus/hr
(7.5 min)

14 bus/hr
(4.3 min)

10 bus/hr
(6 min)

12 bus/hr
(5 min)

6.3 bus/hr
(9.5 min)

5 bus/hr
(12 min)

8 bus/hr
(7.5 min)

6 bus/hr
(10 min)

8 bus/hr
(7.5 min)

6.3 bus/hr
(9.5 min)

5 bus/hr
(12 min)

8 bus/hr
(7.5 min)

6 bus/hr
(10 min)

8 bus/hr
(7.5 min)

7.7 bus/hr
(7.8 min)

10 bus/hr
(6 min)

14 bus/hr
(4.3 min)

12 bus/hr
(5 min)

20 bus/hr
(3 min)

8.7 bus/hr
(6.9 min)

11 bus/hr
(5.5 min)

14 bus/hr
(4.3 min)

12 bus/hr
(5 min)

20 bus/hr
(3 min)

24
bus/hr
(2.5 min)
24
bus/hr
(2.5 min)
16
bus/hr
(3.75
min)
16
bus/hr
(3.75
min)
12
bus/hr
(5 min)
12
bus/hr
(5 min)
24
bus/hr
(2.5 min)
24
bus/hr
(2.5 min)

Both Directions
Travel Between

Table 2: Proposed US 36 Off-Peak Service Levels
Existing
(JAN15)

Initial MCC Memo

Boulder &
Denver

3 bus/hr
(20 min)

4 bus/hr
(15 min)

Proposed
Service
Plan
4 bus/hr
(15 min)

McCaslin &
Denver

2.3 bus/hr
(26.1 min)

3 bus/hr
(20 min)

Broomfield &
Denver

1.8 bus/hr
(33.3 min)

Westminster &
Denver

2 bus/hr
(20 min)

2030

2035

4 bus/hr
(15 min)

8 bus/hr
(7.5 min)

8 bus/hr
(7.5 min)

4 bus/hr
(15 min)

3 bus/hr
(20 min)

6 bus/hr
(10 min)

6 bus/hr
(10 min)

3 bus/hr
(20 min)

4 bus/hr
(15 min)

3 bus/hr
(20 min)

6 bus/hr
(10 min)

6 bus/hr
(10 min)

3 bus/hr
(20 min)

4 bus/hr
(15 min)

3 bus/hr
(20 min)

6 bus/hr
(10 min)

6 bus/hr
(10 min)

2020

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015

Packet Pg. 111

13.C.a

3

Proposed Weekday Schedule Eastbound

Weekday – EASTBOUND TO DENVER

Midday

PM Peak

PM
Evening
PM Late

Other

4

30

2

15

4

15

4

15

4

10

6

30

2

15

4

7:00 - 8:00 am

15

4

15

4

10

6

30

2

15

4

8:00 - 9:00 am

15

4

15

4

10

6

15

4

9:00 - 10:00 am

15

4

10:00 - 11:00 am

15

4

11:00 - 12:00 pm

15

4

12:00 - 1:00 pm

15

4

1:00 - 2:00 pm

15

4

2:00 - 3:00 pm

15

4

3:00 - 4:00 pm

15

4

10

6

15

4

4:00 - 5:00 pm

15

4

10

6

15

4

5:00 - 6:00 pm

15

4

10

6

15

4

6:00 - 7:00 pm

15

4

7:00 - 8:00 pm

15

4

8:00 - 9:00 pm

15

4

9:00 - 10:00 pm

30

2

10:00 - 11:00 pm

30

2

11:00 - 12:00 am

30

2

12:00 - 1:00 am

60

1

*Route S: service via Flatiron Business Park

Trips
(per hour)

15

6:00 - 7:00 am

Headway
(min)

5:00 - 6:00 am

4

Headway
(min)
Trips
(per hour)

2
15

Trips
(per hour)

30

1:00 - 2:00 am

Trips
(per hour)
Headway
(min)

4:00 - 5:00 am

Span

Headway
(min)

Trips
(per hour)

AM Peak

Boulder/
Anschutz

Headway
(min)

AM Early

LimitedStop
Denver/
Boulder

Trips
(per hour)

Time
Period

Denver/
Westminster/
Broomfield

Headway
(min)

Eastbound to Denver

All-Stop
Denver/
Boulder

Boulder
Boulder
Junction Junction at
at Depot
Depot
Square/
Square/
Civic
Union
Center
Station*

3
trips
total

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015

Packet Pg. 112

13.C.a

4

Proposed Weekday Schedule Westbound

Weekday – WESTBOUND TO BOULDER

Midday

PM Peak

PM Evening

PM Late

Other

10

6

15

4

7:00 - 8:00 am

15

4

10

6

15

4

8:00 - 9:00 am

15

4

10

6

15

4

9:00 - 10:00 am

15

4

10:00 - 11:00 am

15

4

11:00 - 12:00 pm

15

4

12:00 - 1:00 pm

15

4

1:00 - 2:00 pm

15

4

2:00 - 3:00 pm

15

4

3:00 - 4:00 pm

15

4

15

4

10

6

30

2

15

4

4:00 - 5:00 pm

15

4

15

4

10

6

30

2

15

4

5:00 - 6:00 pm

15

4

15

4

10

6

30

2

15

4

6:00 - 7:00 pm

15

4

15

4

15

4

7:00 - 8:00 pm

15

4

8:00 - 9:00 pm

15

4

9:00 - 10:00 pm

30

2

10:00 - 11:00 pm

30

2

11:00 - 12:00 am

30

2

12:00 - 1:00 am

30

2

1:00 - 2:00 am

60

1

Trips
(per hour)

4

Boulder
Junction at
Depot
Square/
Union
Station*
Headway
(min)

Trips
(per hour)
Headway
(min)
Trips
(per hour)

4

15

Headway
(min)

15

6:00 - 7:00 am

Headway
(min)

5:00 - 6:00 am

Span

Trips
(per hour)

Boulder/
Anschutz

Trips
(per hour)

AM Peak

LimitedStop

Headway
(min)

AM Early

Denver/
Westminster/
Broomfield

Trips
(per hour)

Time
Period

All-Stop
Denver/
Boulder

Headway
(min)

Westbound to Boulder

Boulder
Junction
at Depot
Square/
Civic
Center

4:00 - 5:00 am

*Route S: service via Flatiron Business Park

3
trips
total

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015

Packet Pg. 113

13.C.a

5

Service Enhancement/ Mixed Service Efficiencies
Route DM – Boulder/ Anschutz Medical Center
It is proposed to include Route DM in the US 36 BRT service category as a new pattern,
FF5.
There are no proposed service pattern changes and it will operate at 30 minute frequency
in the peak direction only. Minor runningtime adjustments will be made, due to the
possible usage of the managed lanes/HOV along the US 36 corridor.
Route S – Denver/ East Boulder
It is proposed to include Route S in the US 36 BRT service category as a deviation of the
BJCC. The Route would be renamed, FF6.
The number of trips would be 3 AM and 3 PM reverse-peak trips, versus the current 3 AM
and 4 PM reverse-peak trips. There are no proposed service pattern changes; however,
selected stops locations between 28th St & Arapahoe and Boulder Junction at Depot
Square Station will be identified, in order to provide more direct and shorter-trip time
service.

Service Additions
Route Flatiron Flyer – US 36 BRT
It is proposed to merge routes BV/BF, BX/BMX, HX, S, T and 86X into the new US 36
BRT, Flatiron Flyer Line and to create 4 separate new patterns, (FF1: All-Station), (FF2:
Express), (FF3:DWB), (FF4:BJCC). FF1 would operate from Downtown Boulder Station
serving selected stops along Broadway and Table Mesa, then all stations along US 36,
between US 36 & Table Mesa Station to US 36 & Sheridan Station and continue along I25 to Union Station. FF2 would operate between Downtown Boulder Station and Union
Station, with selected stops along Broadway and Table Mesa, as well as US 36 & Table
Mesa Station, US 36 & McCaslin Station and Union Station. FF3 would operate between
US 36 & Broomfield Station and Union Station, serving US 36 & Church Ranch, as well as
US 36 & Sheridan Station on the way. FF4 would provide service between Boulder
Junction at Depot Square Station and Civic Center Station. It would stop at selected stops
along Pearl Street and 28th Street, US 36 & Table Mesa Station, US 36 & McCaslin
Station, US 36 & E Flatiron Circle Station, US 36 & Sheridan Station and Civic Center
Station.
All- Station: Denver/ Boulder (FF1)
Previously referred to as Route BV, the all-station service will operate with 15 minute, bidirectional frequencies along the US 36 corridor, serving all of the US 36 stations (See
Proposed Weekday Schedule Eastbound and Proposed Weekday Schedule Westbound).
The 15 minute frequencies will foster all-day, spontaneous use. The routing of the new allstation service will remain unchanged from the existing Route BV service. This route will
be the spine of the corridor, providing passengers with a spontaneous use, all day service
in both directions. Passengers will know that this route will connect them to any station

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015

Packet Pg. 114

13.C.a

6

on the corridor. This will set RTD up for success as the demand for intra-corridor
connectivity increases.
The all-station service is expected to utilize the Managed Lanes between Westminster
Center and DUS as well as between Cherryvale and McCaslin. At all other times, the allstation service will travel in the general lanes and will utilize the Shoulder Lanes when
traffic has slowed to less than 35 miles per hour.
Weekend service on the corridor will be provided exclusively by more frequent all-station
service since the market for express-stop service is reduced on the weekend. All-station
service will operate at 15 minute frequencies during the midday on Saturday and at 30
minute frequencies during the midday on Sunday.
The all station buses serve local stops between Boulder Transit Center and Table Mesa.
While these stops may add ridership, they also increase travel time and operating costs.
RTD and the City of Boulder will examine ridership along Table Mesa Drive and Broadway
to identify the costs and benefits of improved stop spacing and other transit priority
measures.
Express: Denver/ Boulder (FF2)
The Express route will connect DUS and Boulder Transit Center via McCaslin and Table
Mesa. This service will take on the role that is currently being filled by Routes BMX and
BX. An analysis of the existing conditions concluded that the ridership trends did not
support operating the two separate patterns. The express route will provide 10 minute, bidirectional service during the AM and PM peaks.
Express buses will use the new HOV/HOT managed lanes between Table Mesa and
Pecos/Westminster and the existing HOV/HOT lanes from there to Union Station. Under
free-running conditions the bus operator may choose to use the general purpose lanes
between Table Mesa and McCaslin.
DWB: Denver/ Broomfield (FF3)
The corridor will also feature additional trips between Broomfield, Church Ranch,
Westminster Center, and DUS during the peak periods in place of Routes 86X and BF.
These short trips will operate 15 minute frequencies in the AM peak heading eastbound
towards downtown Denver and 15 minute frequencies in the PM peak heading westbound
towards Broomfield. Combined with the All-Station and BJCC services, Westminster
Center and Broomfield will average 12 trips per hour or service every 5 minutes during
peak periods in the peak direction.
Route 86X is currently the most productive route on the corridor. This connection between
Westminster and DUS will be maintained but the resources for this service will be rebranded to unify the corridor.
Integration with local bus service and Call-n-Ride service will be essential to provide for
improved connectivity at the station stops. Station stops at Westminster Center and

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015

Packet Pg. 115

13.C.a

7

Broomfield possess the most local bus service on the US 36 corridor. Broomfield operates
on a pulse-based system with departures occurring at 5 and 35 minutes after the hour. In
order to improve operating speeds, the BRT service should not hold at any station. The
corridor will offer frequent service that will minimize out-of-vehicle wait times and local
services will be tailored to meet the BRT service, if necessary.
BJCC: Boulder Junction/ Civic Center Station (FF4)
The Boulder Junction at Depot Square-Civic Center route (existing Routes HX) will now
also serve Westminster, E Flatiron Circle Station and Broomfield with 15 minute, bidirectional service during the peak periods along the current HX routing on 28th Street in
Boulder and 19th /20th Streets in Denver. Additional trips aim to serve demonstrated
growth on the HX and potential demand from land use development in Boulder around
Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station and along 30th St. These service levels will be
monitored closely after service opens to determine if additional service is warranted, as the
current and potential demand is not sufficient to support higher frequency or broader
service span for opening day.

Service Reductions
Route 206 – Pearl/ Manhattan/ Fairview High School
It is proposed to discontinue the route segment between 33rd Street/Pearl Street and
Boulder Transit Center due to low ridership averaging 8 passengers per service hour or 1.5
passengers per trip and duplicative service provided by route 205 and the HOP. Boulder
Junction at Depot Square Station, located just to the west of 33rd St & Pearl St will be the
new western terminal for this route. This is part of the recently revised Boulder
Transportation Master Plan.
Route T – Boulder/ Greenwood Village
It is proposed to discontinue Route T due to low ridership. Ridership per trip averages 23
passengers, which is less than half the required ridership. In-service hours from Route T
will be integrated into the Flatiron Flyer line.
70th & Broadway Park-n-Ride
With the integration of Route T into Route Flatiron Flyer (US 36 BRT), no regional routes
will continue to serve this location. It is proposed to close this Park-n-Ride with the
opening of US 36 BRT, due to very low usage of the facility by RTD patrons (15% of
capacity; 46/308). Local service connections for Routes 8, 31X and 72 will be provided
on-street at the intersection of 70th Avenue and Broadway.

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015

Packet Pg. 116

8

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015
13.C.a

Packet Pg. 117

9

Attachment: Revised Final Attch A Proposed US 36 BRT service changes Jan 2015 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment A - Proposed US 36 BRT Service Changes - Jan 2015
13.C.a

Packet Pg. 118

To:

1

Jessie Carter, Service Planning & Scheduling Manager

From: Nataly Erving, Senior Service Planner/Scheduler – North Team Lead
Nate Diaz, Service Planner/Scheduler
David Menter, Service Planner/Scheduler
Date: April 16, 2015
Re:

Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (Proposed US36 BRT Service Plan)

The following is a combined summary of the verbal comments made by 77 citizen commenters
at five (total) separate RTD public hearings regarding the Proposed US36 BRT Service Plan.
The five publicly advertised hearings were led by RTD Service Planning/Scheduling staff and
held on: March 16, 2015 (Boulder); March 26, 2015 (Broomfield); April 1, 2015 (Louisville); April
2, 2015 (Westminster); and April 13, 2015 (Denver). More than 200 general public citizens
attended the hearings. Each public hearing followed the same format with: introductions of staff
and elected officials, a staff presentation of the proposed US36 BRT service plan, a
question/answer period for clarifications, and the formal public comment period. Additional
public comments, not enumerated here, were also submitted to RTD staff separately in writing
and email (being taken thru May 1, 2015).
Boulder Hearing (Boulder Public Library, 6pm, 3/16/ 2015)
•

Commenter is a Boulder City Council member who wished to express concern about the service
proposal and made the following statements: The Flatiron Flyer is an inadequate service for
BRT. Steps on buses make the service inaccessible for many riders. Service represents a
$1.5B savings compared with rail. Service increase looks worse to Boulder. NW area cities
supported a train on I-225, not anticipating that their own service would be reduced. Highest
system farebox collections come from Boulder. Lack of midday and weekend service
between Boulder Junction and Denver is not acceptable, nor is the lack of service
between Boulder Junction and Denver Union Station. Requests RTD improve service along
the corridor.

•

Commenter represents U.S. 36 Commuting Solutions. Supportive of 15-minute all-station
service, new DWB route, 30-minute frequency on SkyRide via NW Parkway, service
connecting Boulder Junction and Civic Center Station, and all-day bi-directional service
along U.S. 36. Concerned about a reduction in frequency along Broadway corridor, elimination
of midday express service, longer travel times to Denver International Airport, elimination of
Route S, conversion of Route HX to local service, the lack of service between Union Station and
Boulder Junction, and the lack of service between Boulder Junction and Denver International
Airport.

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 119

2

•

Commenter is a small business owner in downtown Denver and a university student. Believes
there is a misconception of the level of service which will be provided along Broadway in
Boulder and that RTD should provide better communication with the University of
Colorado community to eliminate this misconception. Stated appreciation for the work of
RTD with local representatives.

•

Commenter questioned the absence of the District O RTD board member at the meeting.
Believes that using Route HX as a basis for planning other services is a bad technique and that
Boulder Junction will be a joke because service never runs there. Expressed disappointment in
a 10% reduction in capacity for bicycles on new buses. Believes cyclists will experience a loss
of capacity and questioned RTD’s failure to install three-position bike racks on its vehicles.

•

Commenter is the chair of the City of Boulder Planning Board, but is not speaking on its behalf.
Explained that many transit-oriented development projects are planned around Boulder Junction
at Depot Square and that the board faced significant pushback from the community during the
planning of these projects. Stated that the projects were approved with the understanding that a
significant transit presence would exist. Service proposal does not describe off-peak service
to Boulder Junction, nor does it include service to Denver’s Union Station or
International Airport. Stated that there is an untapped demand at Boulder Junction for
transit service which is not expressed in RTD’s projections.

•

Commenter is a representative of the Boulder Transportation Committee. Stated the importance
of the connection between Greater Denver and Boulder. Believes that there should be an
equitable distribution of funds throughout the district. Fewer transfers between vehicles
should be required, not more. Routes S and HX should be maintained. The investment in
U.S. 36 service should be increased. Direct service between Boulder Junction and Denver
Union Station should be created. Broadway service should be improved.

•

Commenter is the transportation director for Boulder County and spoke on the behalf of the
County. Stated that no one should receive worse service than it currently receives. Questioned
the balance of local versus express service along Broadway. Stressed the importance of service
to Boulder Junction and the East Boulder employment centers. RTD should not reduce service
anywhere. RTD Board should allocate increased funds to the corridor. Spoke positively about
the increase in all-day, all-station service at a local fare to support low-income riders, as well as
the option of an all-day pass at the price of a single fare. Stated that service should not be
reduced as a result of FasTracks.

•

Commenter believes that mass transportation is misunderstood by the State of Colorado.
Understands the challenging of serving a car-oriented area such as Metro Denver. RTD should
not be a challenge to its users. Sanity in the EcoPass program is recommended, eliminating the
confusing neighborhood-dependent nature of the program.

•

Commenter views the service proposal as a shuffling of RTD service. Looking for the rollout of a
flagship service along U.S. 36. Questions why RTD does not feel it has a mandate to provide
similar service along the corridor. Explained that land use decisions have been made based
upon transit service to allow for car-free and car-light lifestyles. Boulder deserves similar service

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 120

3

and timeframes as other corridors. Service should be increased to support the development
of Boulder Junction. WiFi and real-time information should be provided to customers.
•

Commenter manages a bus pass program for the University of Colorado and did not speak on
the behalf of the institution. Stated that students are responsible for 400,000 annual rides on
Route BV and that 25% of students do not leave their homes until after 9:00 A.M. Sacrificing
Routes BMX and BX does not help these riders and struggles to understand RTD’s logic for
discontinuing these routes. Recommended adjusting the end of the morning peak period to
10:00 A.M. Hopeful that new coaches will have improved wheelchair lifts to speed boarding.
Believes that the improved SkyRide service will be beneficial for students and that RTD should
continue to improve services for students.

•

Commenter was previously an intern at RTD and did not speak on RTD’s behalf. Complained
about riders who place their feet on seats. Explained the improvements on buses, including
increased legroom, stop announcements, and LED headlamps. Believes RTD does a good job.
Questioned lack of bi-directional express lanes on I-25.

•

Commenter questioned the logic of eliminating Route T which serves a geographically
unique area. Stated that travel time for Route T riders would increase to 2-2.5 hours.
Elimination of the route would cause people to leave Boulder County. Recommended RTD
maintain geographically unique routes.

•

Commenter recommended the retention of midday express service and the addition of
lifeline service at night (night owl service) along U.S. 36. Stated that the service span of
Route AB impacts the availability of flight choices for Boulder residents. Believes that stopping
at Flatiron Park and Ride is unnecessary for Route AB.

•

Commenter is a longtime RTD supporter, an EcoPass user, and was on the Boulder City
Council as it discussed FasTracks. Thanked RTD for the service improvements. Requests
improved service on Route AB and a reduction in fare for Route BV. Disappointed in the
reduction in service for Route BX. The marginal service between Boulder Junction and Denver
Union Station will doom it to failure, missing the pent up demand at Boulder Junction. Believes
that bicycle capacity should be increased, not decreased. Suggested that service seems to be
reallocated instead of increased proportionally as with other service areas. Expressed
disappointment with the loss of rail.

•

Commenter is a former RTD board member and the director of the Boulder Chamber of
Commerce. Expressed understanding for the challenges faced by RTD and believes transit
must be successful. Hopes to increase mobility through increased investment in transit service.
Believes that vision is necessary and that RTD should see this service plan as a successful
service. No service similar to the Flatiron Flyer currently exists, and the community is counting
on RTD to put sufficient service on the street.

•

Commenter spoke regarding the lack of service near the Boulder Junction development,
believing it is unacceptable for future demand. Regarding bicycles on U.S. 36, there is
sufficient demand for bicycles on buses. The new bikeway will increase demand for bike racks
on buses, especially for one-way bike commuters.

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 121

4

•

Commenter is a U.S. 36 rider who would like to see an increase in capacity for bicycles on
buses. Stated that there is an important connection between the East Flatiron Crossing Park
and Ride and Denver International Airport. Thanked RTD for bringing sanity to the BV schedule.

•

Commenter has been a transit rider for 35 years. Northwest corridor has supported transit for
many years, but believes that RTD only wants to do a good job instead of a great job for the
corridor. Stated that RTD should measure efficiency by how long it takes customers to travel
from door to door rather than the speed of a bus. A reasonable travel time should be
considered, as should the level of complexity required to complete a trip. Stressed RTD should
be cautious when consolidating boarding points as some passengers might not be able to
access the system. Expressed concern with the EcoPass program. Buses should be simple and
predictable for cyclists to board. Observed lines at Union Station during a recent snow event
and questioned the service proposal’s ability to handle such a service disruption.

•

Commenter lives and works in Boulder, riding the BX frequently. Concerned about the plan
and the loss of the off-peak Route BX service. Requests a direct connection between
Boulder Transit Center and Denver Union Station. Concerned that the new fare schedule
and increase might discourage ridership and make the EcoPass less attractive.

•

Commenter has been a Denver commuter since 1975, previously riding the Denver Boulder Bus
service. Appreciates the improvements in the U.S. 36 corridor for transit riders since 1975 and
rides Route HX. Thanked RTD for its responsiveness to changes in demand and hopes that
demand surveys will occur for service between Boulder Junction and Denver’s Union and Civic
Center Stations. Requested that FreeMetroRide be improved to provide off-peak service.

•

Commenter is a former mayor of the City of Boulder and a former Boulder County
Commissioner. Urged RTD to look at the project in the same way it viewed the rollout of light
rail. RTD took a vision to light rail, people looked at it and wanted more. RTD is looking at BRT
as an expansion of FasTrack, so U.S. 36 should be treated in the same way. People should
view this service as an example of future BRT in the region.

•

Commenter is a Boulder City Council member, appreciative of the new service. Played a role in
the downtown Boulder EcoPass program with 7,000 participants. Believes this service is an
opportunity for RTD to say thank you to Boulder for how it has accepted transit. Boulder feels it
is at the end of the road and that it is never going to get a train. Additional funding should be
invested here, especially given the transit oriented development at Boulder Junction. The city’s
commitment to density does not match the proposed service offered by RTD. Stated that RTD
should not predetermine if a route will be popular.

•

Commenter believes RTD needs to bring more funding to the table for this project. The process
of adding and removing service isn’t right. The Northwest corridor communities paid $28M for
FasTracks, but RTD is only offering $1M in additional service. Stated that the fare structure
between McCaslin and Boulder Transit Center is confusing. Stated that Route 206 augments
Route S, but only serves Flatiron Business Park. Believes that all proposed cuts should
be eliminated and that express service should be increased during peak periods. Route
AB service should be added at Boulder Junction.

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 122

5

Broomfield Hearing (George Di Ciero City & County Building, 6pm, 3/26/ 2015)
•

David Driscoll identified himself as a board member of ‘US36 Commuting Solutions’ and was
speaking on its Board’s behalf. He said he was concerned about the overall proposed operating
plan and its lack of more service. He said the US36 corridor contributes $20M in tax funding
annually to RTD but is receiving only $900K in new proposed BRT fastracks service. This is a
service inequity for the NW quadrant of the RTD district. More service should be added into the
US36 service plan.

•

Debra Basket identified herself as a staff member of the City/County of Broomfield and board
member of ‘US36 Commuting Solutions’. She said RTD staff had worked hard on the proposed
plan but that the overall service proposed was not enough. She said the ‘on-shoulder’ running
would be a benefit. She said no customer should have less service which parts of the plan had
proposed including: (1) the ‘DWB’ service pattern should be a ‘local fare’ (2) the FlatIron
PnR should have more service than was proposed in the Plan and (3) DEN Airport
service should be added to/from the Broomfield PnR.

•

Lee Robinson identified himself as a resident of Broomfield who lived adjacent to the FlatIron
PnR. He said he was most concerned that the existing HX pattern should continue to
serve the FlatIron PnR. He said: (1) HX was the most popular route serving the FlatIron PnR
(2) 20% (1/5) of the current HX route riders boarded at FltaIron PnR (3) the FlatIron PnR had
much better access to it than the nearby Broomfield PnR (4) Increasing development was
underway adjacent to the FlatIron PnR (5) the proposed plan eliminated the existing direct HX
connection to the Civic Center Station in Downtown Denver from FlatIrons PnR. Later in the
hearing Mr. Robinson reiterated that 20% of the current route HX pattern riders boarded at the
FlatIron PnR and that this was both a relatively large number and a significant number of riders.
He also said he knew there were many riders who said to him that they were very concerned
about the proposed reduction in service to Civic Center from FlatIrons PnR but that could not
attend the hearing.

•

Sharon Quigley was most concerned that the proposed HX pattern that she used would be
discontinued from the FlatIron PnR. She said the replacement service offered would take 2X
longer for her. She said she had moved to her current residence with the HX pattern in mind.
She said a 27 min trip currently would take up to 47 min. She said the fare on US36 should be
‘local’ fare.

•

Janet Michaels said she generally liked the proposed service plan. She liked the consolidated,
rationalized patterns. She said she could ride from the Broomfield PnR or nearby other PnR.
But, she said RTD should keep the (HX pattern) at FlatIron PnR.

•

Tom Mueller said the US36’s proposed ‘Limited Service Pattern’ should be a ‘limited’ fare (not a
local fare). He said the US36 plan proposed was inadequate in that it did not directly have a
fare plan attached to it.

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 123

6

•

Lisa Engleking was most concerned about the proposed elimination of the ‘S’ route
pattern. She said the proposed connecting bus service would take longer and require a
transfer. She said the E. Boulder area is experiencing dramatic current new development and
the ‘S’ should remain. She also was concerned that the ‘All-Station’ pattern proposed on US36
should use the inside ‘Express lanes’, not the outside or general traffic lanes.

•

Sean Salisbury expressed concern about the proposed elimination of the existing HX
pattern at the FlatIron PnR. He said he agreed with Lee Robinson’s comments (made earlier
during the hearing). He said the HX provides a current good, well used, connection to the Civic
Center Station in Denver – and it should be included in this service plan. The current plan
proposed would require a transfer in Downtown Denver from the ‘All-Station’ pattern to the ‘Mall
shuttle’ which operates too slowly. It would add 15 min. or more to his commute. He also
expressed concern that eliminating the HX pattern at FlatIrons PnR would negatively impact
adjacent retail/businesses. Later in the hearing Mr. Salisbury reiterated that there was
increasing new development occurring near the FlatIron PnR and that the HX pattern should
continue to serve the PnR and that expanding market.

•

Julie McCabe identified herself as a resident of Boulder. She was most concerned that no ‘realtime’ bus arrival information is yet available at RTD bus stops/PnRs. She said RTD was
forgetting about the customer. She also said RTD had generated $583M in tax receipts from
the NW RTD corridor since 2008 and over $60M per year. She said RTD was suffering from
FasTracks budget woes of being $1.5B overbudget. However, with FasTracks funding
shortfalls, only $135m was being given back in RTD funds to the corridor. She said the NW
corridor was receiving inequitable service and getting shortchanged by RTD.

•

Joe Rocoskey identified himself as a resident of Boulder and has been a rider since 1979.
Overall he said that RTD has managed service on the US36 corridor well over the years and
has made good incremental improvements. He said he was surprised how long the ‘T’
pattern had lasted already, but said it should be retained perhaps in the A.M. He was
generally supportive of the proposed service plan and said “We should give it a ‘try’”.

•

Michael Guidarelli identified himself as a resident of Lafayette and asked to know how the plan
would address the Town of Lafayette. (RTD’s Mr. Diaz asked him to stay after the hearing
portion of the meeting so he could answer his questions directly).

•

Debra Crawford said she lived near the FlatIron PnR and lived inside the City of Broomfield,
proper. She said she moved there for the RTD service, but said the Broomfield Call-n-Ride did
not specifically serve her address. She asked that the Broomfield Call-n-Ride be expanded to
serve her address.
Louisville Hearing (Louisville Recreation Center, 6pm, 4/1/ 2015)

•

Commenter objected to the cancellation of Route AB service to Broomfield Park and
Ride. Disliked the increased travel time between Broomfield and Denver International Airport.
Spoke of frequent car break-ins at the Flatiron Park and Ride. Believed Broomfield is being
shortchanged by these service changes. Disagreed with the argument that Northwest Parkway

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 124

7

will be a faster routing for Route AB due to the improved travel time along the U.S. 36 corridor.
Thanked Chairperson Sisk for his response to a complaint. Mentioned that it appears RTD’s
desire is to save money. If time is equal to money, the current routing of the AB is equal in
distance to the new routing along the Northwest Parkway. The commenter stated an additional
comment will also be offered in writing.
•

Commenter spoke of the positives of the bidirectional service. Stated that using Northwest
Parkway will help to eliminate the long travel time to the airport and will increase likelihood of
passengers riding Route AB to Denver International Airport. Concerned that the H bus will
actually increase in travel time. Appreciated that there are people at Flatiron Park and Ride who
would use the service, but recommends not increasing the travel time for others. Appreciated
the predictability of the new service, but does not believe that this predictability will actually
occur in practice. Frequent buses won’t necessarily show up at their scheduled time. Off-board
payment will be unfair for people who actually pay their fare because there are so many people
who currently use light rail and don’t pay their fare. Operators are so confused with the current
routings and changes to ramps along U.S. 36, operators are frequently missing their turns due
to constantly changing routings and interim roadway designs.

•

Executive director of U.S. 36 Commuting Solutions stated that formal comments from the group
were submitted to RTD. U.S. 36 service plan is the area’s contribution to FasTracks. Spoke
about need to receive benefit along the corridor from the tax investment from this service area.
Pleased by good attendance at the meeting. Stated that FasTracks should result in an
improvement in service for customers, not a reduction. Expected to see an improvement in
service around the Boulder Junction development. Concerned about the low level of service to
that emerging market, as well as others. Believed that RTD should maximize its investment
along the U.S. 36 express lanes. Expected a comparable investment in the region compared
with other areas in the RTD area. Appreciated working with RTD staff on the plan. Viewed 15minute all-day, 10-minute peak frequency at all stations as an improvement. Appreciated the
service from Broomfield and Sheridan. Liked the rerouting of AB. Lack of service… (3 minutes
elapsed)

•

Louisville resident and RTD rider believed they are receiving a “triple whammy”. Expected a rail
line and isn’t going to get it. Carpool lanes are being changed from 2 to 3 people. BRT is
reducing service, specifically to Civic Center. Service between Superior and Civic Center is
getting worse as a result of the plan. Additional stops at Westminster increases service for that
area which is also getting rail service. Not fair that they are getting better service while the north
end of the service area is getting worse service. Spoke about the capacity of the Park and Ride
on both sides of the U.S. 36 freeway. Additional stops between Superior and Civic Center
Station unnecessary. Recommended staff be flexible to adjust for new travel times. Noted an
increase in flexibility along U.S. 36, but not for others. Suggested the reconsideration of the
elimination of the Superior Park and Ride.

•

Louisville resident rides Route H to Civic Center. Stated displeasure about the lack of rail
service along the corridor. Questioned whether travel times will decrease to Civic Center
Station. Believed recent changes actually increased travel times. Supported the reinstatement
of stops at Flatiron Park and Ride.

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 125

8

•

Broomfield resident stated that SkyRide service along Route AB should continue to
Broomfield given the number of connection points at that facility. Reduces the number of
transfers required to get to Denver International Airport. Recommended RTD continue to serve
Broomfield.

•

Superior resident who travels from McCaslin to Union Station was okay with the use of buses
instead trains. Believed the express flexibility of buses is good. Stated pleasure with how snow
day service serves every stop. Expressed excitement about the changes and the reliable
service, as well as the reduced travel time to the airport.

•

Commenter spoke on behalf of the City of Louisville and had previously submitted comments to
RTD. Liked all-station service and the increase in frequency throughout the day. Appreciated
the new airport service routing. Believes RTD is simply shuffling service around rather than
creating new service. Louisville feels strongly that there should be no reduction in service
through the FasTracks program and will continue to have conversations with RTD.

•

Boulder resident agreed with others who wished to increase the transit investment in this part of
the region. Believed it was important to continue serving the area. Believed there will be a
decrease in midday express service and hoped to see more frequent express service midday.
HX is always full at Table Mesa and recommended it be an express service. Wants 5-minute
frequency along U.S. 36.

•

Louisville resident would like an increase in the number of Route AB buses, especially during
school breaks. Asked that RTD increase frequency or have other buses waiting in the cases of
overloads. Route AB is extremely chaotic during break times. Suggested additional weekend
service on Route AB.

•

Commenter supported additional midday service for students, teachers, and others who work
non-standard hours. Recommended RTD use smaller vehicles for midday express service
rather than to eliminate it.

•

Louisville resident stated that waiting for the bus at Island 5 at Denver International Airport is
chaotic and cold.
Westminster Hearing (City Park Recreation Center, 6pm, 4/2/ 2015)

•

Craig Coon identified himself as a member of the US36 Commuting Solutions board. He stated
the proposed service plan had good elements including: bi-directional 15-minute headways on
weekdays and Saturdays, and additional Broomfield/Westminster frequencies in peakhours/peak-direction to/from Union Station. However, he said that RTD should add more
funding to the plan to serve large new/expanding rider markets currently being built in the
corridor including: (a) more service at Boulder Junction and (b) one-seat DIA-Broomfield
service.

•

Emily Nowicki urged that the ‘T’ route pattern be retained. She explained she rode the ‘T’
from Westminster to the Tech Center regularly and worked at Oracle. When the ‘T’ had been

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 126

9

proposed for elimination in the past, she tried various alternative RTD rail and bus alternatives
but each took far longer than the ‘T’.
•

James Stetterberg explained he was an RTD operator and operated the AB route often. He
urged that the AB continue at Westminster PnR as many DIA workers rely on that service
to get to/from work at DIA.

•

Connie Wolff explained that she worked at DIA and relied on the ‘AB’ at Westminster PnR. She
said that she and others would face longer commute times than currently exists and that the AB
should be retained at the Westminster PnR.

•

Aric Otzelberger identified himself as paid staff of the City of Westminster and that he was
speaking for the City. He explained the City appreciated RTD’s hard work in crafting the
proposed US36 Service Plan and liked several elements including: all-day 15-minute bidirectional service at all stations - including Church Ranch PnR. However, he said the City was
asking RTD to add more resources, specifically, so the ‘AB’ remained at Westminster PnR
with one-seat service to/from DIA. The replacement service would take longer and the
proposed discontinuance of the AB at the Westminster PnR was a significant loss for the City
that should be changed.

•

Cory Lacert explained he was speaking for his company, employing 485 people, at the FlatIron
Business Park in East Boulder, currently served by the ‘S’ route pattern. He said his company
provides RTD transit passes to its employees, many of whom rely on the ‘S’. He urged for the
‘S’ should remain as it benefitted adjacent communities, such as Westminster, by
allowing employees to live in Westminster and access jobs in East Boulder. He said he
was cyclist and riding a bike would become more cumbersome with the proposed transfer that
would be required if the ‘S’ would be discontinued.

•

Clayton Dean urged RTD to keep the ‘T’ route pattern as part the US36 service plan. He
said that RTD was incorrectly pushing riders away when it should instead be expanding rider
options. He said the ‘T’ should instead be promoted so that it could expand in the future and
make it better.

•

Cathy Voecks urged RTD not to eliminate the ‘T’ route pattern. She said light rail is slow
and the replacement trip, including transfers, for her will take much longer. She added that
since the fare study was not yet decided, she was concerned her replacement trip would require
she need to also pay two fares, one for bus, and another for light rail to complete her trip. She
said ‘T’ drivers also needed more training to drive the speed limit when possible as they often
operated too slowly on the I-25 HOV lanes.

•

Glen November explained that he worked at Ball Aerospace. He urged that the AB continue
at Westminster PnR and that discontinuing it was wrong. He also urged that the ‘HX’ route
pattern (‘BJCC’) serve Church Ranch PnR.

•

Tracy Kraft-Tharp (State Representative) complained that RTD had incorrectly not included the
Fare Study as an intended component of this US36 Service Plan Hearing. She said she had
been led to believe this would be the case and apologized for informing any of her constituents

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 127

10

that this meeting would also be about the Fare Study. She said the proposed US36 Service
Plan was a big change along with a fare change. She said she was dismayed at the lack of
consideration showed by RTD in that it was requiring citizens to attend two separate public
meetings and unfair to citizens’ time.
•

Paula Fossum urged RTD to keep the AB at Broomfield PnR. She said that the proposed
replacement service, requiring a transfer at the FlatIron PnR, would require needless,
cumbersome luggage transfers for riders and drivers alike.

•

Emma Pinter (Westminster City Council) reiterated the City of Westminster’s position that
retaining ‘AB’ service at Westminster PnR was of significant importance to the City. She
also expressed her concern about the proposed discontinuance of the ‘T’ route pattern.

•

Ryan Nee identified himself as a formally representing a large employer (‘Markit’) based in East
Boulder. He stated the company had 500 employees covered by employer transit pass
programs. He stated transit’s importance for many employees who live in the City of Denver.
He specifically said that proposed elimination of the ‘S’ route pattern would be an
inconvenience as it currently is a one-seat ride that should be retained. He also stated that
any timed transfer to/from route 206 at Boulder Junction needs to be made more via more
reliable206schedules.

•

Mary Fossum stated that she worked at the Denver Airport and that she relied on the current AB
route from Westminster. She stated that the AB at Westminster should be retained and that
there were many other employees who boarded the AB at Westminster and Broomfield that
would be left hanging in the breeze and negatively affected. She pointed out that the proposed
replacement location for the AB in Broomfield, serving its FlatIrons PnR instead of the
Broomfield PnR, did not have covered parking, which was another downgrade.

•

Kim Zilis stated that the current HX route, at FlatIrons PnR, has often been standing room
only. The loss of FlatIrons PnR, on the BJCC (HX) route pattern, was a wrong and it should be
added back into the plan.

•

Kuan-Hsuen Lee stated that he was a university student in Denver and that he liked the
proposed plan and the new service ideas and concepts in it. He said he thought that more
advertising and promotion of the ‘Metro Ride’ route in Denver could be used to help offset some
riders’ concerns regarding the proposed loss of the one-seat ride to Civic Center Station from
the FlatIrons PnR.

•

Helen Bushnell said she was happy about the service plan and glad it was finally going to
happen. She urged that the fare should be ‘Local’ along the corridor - especially at Broomfield
PnR. She also added that it needs to be made easier to walk, and use wheelchairs, near PnRs
along the corridor. She said RTD needs more outreach to diverse rider groups, including those
who ride the #206 route.

•

David Cook said he was speaking for himself and not CU-Boulder, where he works. He
thanked RTD staff for its hard work in crafting the propose service plan for US36. He said
however that RTD should add more FasTracks funds to the corridor to increase service on it.

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 128

11

He also said the plan has, in certain instances, times where it offers fewer trips than currently
exist at peak of the peak hours. He said this would crowd buses as certain times and affect bike
capacity. He urged that the route ‘S’ pattern be retained – especially at a time when there is
increasing development on E. Arapahoe Rd, a recently opened Hospital complex, and Ball
Aerospace expansion.
•

Bradley Kohler said he worked at the Denver Airport and regularly rode the AB from the
Westminster PnR. He said the proposed elimination of the AB at Westminster was a
problem and would require a significantly longer travel time on the future US36 BRT to DIA rail
transfer – or the NW rail transfer to DIA rail. He added that there was already a bike and
luggage capacity problem on the AB bus that will only get worse. He said that there would be
a 5-6 month gap in DIA service from Westminster entirely, if the AB ended in January, but
if NW rail did not start until the summer.

•

Patrick Ricard said he liked the service plan in that it offered a significant benefit to ‘reversecommute’ riders, like himself, going into Boulder to work. He added that the existing mid-day
express pattern should be retained. He urged RTD to carefully consider the ‘BJCC’ (HX) route
pattern should avoid Rockies baseball game day delays in Downtown Denver.

•

James Wadell said he was a member of Boulder’s ‘B-Cycle’ group. He said the route ‘S’
pattern should remain and that it was not frequent enough. He said the BJCC route should
operate via Foothills Pkwy in Boulder, vs 28th St, to/from Boulder Junction station.
Denver Hearing (RTD Administrative Offices, Noon, 4/13/ 2015)

•

Ryan Nee identified himself as a formally representing a large employer (‘Markit’) based in East
Boulder. He stated the company had 500 employees covered by employer transit pass
programs. He stated transit’s importance for many employees who live in the City of Denver.
He specifically said that proposed elimination of the ‘S’ route pattern would be an
inconvenience as it currently is a one-seat ride that should be retained. He also stated that
any timed transfer to/from route 206 at Boulder Junction needs to be made more via more
reliable206schedules.

•

Mary Fossum stated that she worked at the Denver Airport and that she relied on the current AB
route from Westminster. She stated that the AB at Westminster should be retained and that
there were many other employees who boarded the AB at Westminster and Broomfield that
would be left hanging in the breeze and negatively affected. She pointed out that the proposed
replacement location for the AB in Broomfield, serving its FlatIrons PnR instead of the
Broomfield PnR, did not have covered parking, which was another downgrade.

•

Kim Zilis stated that the current HX route, at FlatIrons PnR, has often been standing room only.
The loss of FlatIrons PnR, on the BJCC (HX) route pattern, was a wrong and it should be
added back into the plan.

•

Kuan-Hsuen Lee stated that he was a university student in Denver and that he liked the
proposed plan and the new service ideas and concepts in it. He said he thought that more

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 129

12

advertising and promotion of the ‘Metro Ride’ route in Denver could be used to help offset some
riders’ concerns regarding the proposed loss of the one-seat ride to Civic Center Station from
the FlatIrons PnR.
•

Helen Bushnell said she was happy about the service plan and glad it was finally going to
happen. She urged that the fare should be ‘Local’ along the corridor - especially at Broomfield
PnR. She also added that it needs to be made easier to walk, and use wheelchairs, near PnRs
along the corridor. She said RTD needs more outreach to diverse rider groups, including those
who ride the #206 route.

•

David Cook said he was speaking for himself and not CU-Boulder, where he works. He thanked
RTD staff for its hard work in crafting the propose service plan for US36. He said however that
RTD should add more FasTracks funds to the corridor to increase service on it. He also said
the plan has, in certain instances, times where it offers fewer trips than currently exist at
peak of the peak hours. He said this would crowd buses as certain times and affect bike
capacity. He urged that the route ‘S’ pattern be retained – especially at a time when there is
increasing development on E. Arapahoe Rd, a recently opened Hospital complex, and Ball
Aerospace expansion.

•

Bradley Kohler said he worked at the Denver Airport and regularly rode the AB from the
Westminster PnR. He said the proposed elimination of the AB at Westminster was a
problem and would require a significantly longer travel time on the future US36 BRT to DIA rail
transfer – or the NW rail transfer to DIA rail. He added that there was already a bike and
luggage capacity problem on the AB bus that will only get worse. He said that there would be a
5-6 month gap in DIA service from Westminster entirely, if the AB ended in January, but if NW
rail did not start until the summer.

•

Patrick Ricard said he liked the service plan in that it offered a significant benefit to ‘reversecommute’ riders, like himself, going into Boulder to work. He added that the existing mid-day
express pattern should be retained. He urged RTD to carefully consider the ‘BJCC’ (HX) route
pattern should avoid Rockies baseball game day delays in Downtown Denver.

•

James Wadell said he was a member of Boulder’s ‘B-Cycle’ group. He said the route ‘S’
pattern should remain and that it was not frequent enough. He said the BJCC route should
operate via Foothills Pkwy in Boulder, vs 28th St, to/from Boulder Junction station.

13.C.b

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments

Packet Pg. 130

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
13
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 131

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
14
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 132

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
15
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 133

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
16
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 134

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
17
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 135

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
18
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 136

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
19
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 137

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
20
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 138

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
21
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 139

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
22
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 140

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
23
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 141

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
24
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 142

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
25
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 143

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
26
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 144

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
27
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 145

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
28
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 146

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
29
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 147

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
30
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 148

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
31
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 149

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
32
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 150

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
33
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 151

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
34
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 152

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
35
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 153

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
36
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 154

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
37
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 155

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
38
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 156

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
39
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 157

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
40
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 158

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
41
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 159

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
42
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 160

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment B - Summary of Verbal Public Hearing Comments
43
13.C.b

Packet Pg. 161

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments
Last

First

02/18/2015 Ball

Kathy

02/23/2015 Domenico

Route/Topic Comments
Concerned with reduction in service. Already
standing loads - buses leaving passengers
120X
Concerned that passengers would need a
transfer to travel from Boulder to DIA after
opening of East Line.
Wants continued service from Broomfield PnR

Ben

AB

Smith

Linda

AB

Bartlett

Andrew

AB

Concerned that Longmont will no longer have
route to DIA

Berlin

Gary

AB

Henke

Dan

AB

Brian
Lorraine

AB
AB

Fossum

Paula

AB

Wilimont

Alan/Doris AB

04/13/2015 Tomlinson

Georgenne AB

04/15/2015 Knott
04/15/2015 Sindt
Papp
04/21/2015

Richard
Laurie
Scott

Against removing route from Broomfield pnR Flatirons is inconvenient and unsafe
Wants service from Broomfield PnR to
continue
Wants service from Broomfield PnR to DIA
Opposed to removing bus from Westminster
pnR
Opposed to cutting service from Broomfield
pnR
Opposed to cutting service from Broomfield
pnR
Upset over changes to AB route - wants direct
route to DIA
Against changes to service
Against changes to service to DIA
Wants service to continue from Flatirons PnR

03/17/2015 Lorden

Tommy

04/02/2015 Tiderman
Enterline
04/05/2015

Michael
Walt

04.30.15

Aileen

04/01/2015
04/02/2015
04/02/2015
04/02/2015

04/02/2015 Painter
Anderson
04/06/2015
04/07/2015
04/07/2015

Carrigan

03/16/2015 Van Domelen Julie

02/23/2015 Mariana

AB
AB
AB

Requesting Express Service from Boulder to
AB - US 36
DIA - No stops and alternate routing in case of
Plan
traffic issues
AF
Concerned about the 12:50 AM AF TO DIA
BJD
Concerned with lack of service between BJD
and DUS
BRT
Opposed to vehicle choice for BRT
Concerned with lack of services - and lack of
BRT Service
affordable service of fixed income passengers
- Fare
Increases

Vieira

BX

Michael

BX

03/16/2015 Schmitz

Marjorie

BX US 36
Plan

03/10/2015 Blodgett

Kristen

03/24/2015

Miller

13.C.c

Concerned about cutbacks in service - would
like to see Express service all day
Requesting stops of Broadway/27th continue

Concerned about losing Express Service
midday to Boulder
Concerned the bus will no longer go to CU as
BX/BMX/BV
an Express - 1 seat stop

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Date

1

Packet Pg. 162

2

03/10/2015 Massey

Cabell

03/10/2015 Mcclurg

Molly

03/10/2015 Schroeder

Calli

02/22/2015 Sucharov

Carmen

Route/Topic Comments
Concerned that bus won't go straight to CU
BX/BMX/BV
Campus - wants CU to Express Stops
Concerned that bus won't go straight to CU
BX/BMX/BV
Campus - wants CU to Express Stops
Concerned that bus won't go straight to CU
BX/BMX/BV
Campus - wants CU to Express Stops
Requesting an additional AM bus to Anschutz
DM

04/14/2015 Johnson

Jonathan

Express

02/24/2015 Judd

Patrick

Date

Last

First

Doraisingam

Shankini

Frederick/
Firestone
HX

Swisher

Jordan

HX

Venable

Chris

HX

Kaufman

Sandy

HX

Richman

Teasha

HX

Watkins

Carolyn

HX

Bueno

Yvonne

HX

Miller

Elizabeth

HX

Wolfson

Rose

HX

Brown

Douglas

HX

Delamarter

Chisya

HX

Gilbert

Micael

HX

Kiimber

Jennie

HX

Fero

Jon

HX

Lowry

David

HX

Stephen

HX

Burns

Jon

HX

04/13/2015 Heidell

Jim

HX

03/23/2015
03/23/2015
03/24/2015
03/27/2015
03/29/2015
03/29/2015
03/31/2015
03/31/2015
03/31/2015
04/01/2015
04/01/2015
04/01/2015
04/01/2015
04/02/2015
04/02/2015

04/11/2015 Kane
04/13/2015

Would like Express service into the PM hours
Requesting better transit options between
Frederick/Firestone and Boulder
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
CCS

13.C.c

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments

Packet Pg. 163

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments
Last

04/26/2015 Sutton
Moore
03/17/2015 Saveland
02/23/2015 Robinsto
03/03/2015 Robinston
03/04/2015 Armand
03/04/2015 Wegen
03/06/2015 Quigley
03/10/2015
03/11/2015 Malmberg
03/12/2015 Bagdassian
03/12/2015 Diefenbach
03/12/2015 Dutka
03/12/2015 Gandhi
03/12/2015 Green
03/12/2015 Ingoldby
03/12/2015 Moore
03/12/2015 Paterno
03/12/2015 Repsher
03/12/2015 Repsher
03/12/2015 Rudduck
03/12/2015 Sideris
03/12/2015 Smith
03/12/2015 Thornberry

Route/Topic Comments
Wants service to continue from Flatirons to
Holly
HX
CCS
Jeremy
HX
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
HX - US 36 Wants Express bus - fewer stops and service
Todd
Plan
to CCS
HX US 36
Doesn't want route changed Lee
Plan
HX US 36
Doesn't want route HX changed - would make
Julian
Plan
for a longer commute
HX US 36
Doesn't want HX changed - would like
Larissa
Plan
increase in service
HX US 36
Wants stop for CCS added to US 36 Flatiron
Keith
Plan
Service
HX US 36
Concerned over cancelation of HX - needs
Sharon
Plan
Flatiron stop to CCS
HX US 36
Wants HX to continue to serve US 36 Flatiron
Victoria
Plan
PnR
HX US 36
Requesting Express stop from US 36 Flatiron
Dtona
Plan
to downtown
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Briana
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Michael
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Dallas
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Riddhi
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Vince
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Mike
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Matt
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Ethan
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Katie
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Mark
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Arlene
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Sabrina
Plan
Christophe HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
r
Plan
HX US 36
Requesting stop for HX at Flatirons.
Darren
Plan

13.C.c

First

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Date

3

Packet Pg. 164

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments
Last

03/12/2015 Tinnel
03/16/2015 Coghlan
03/16/2015 Wu
03/18/2015 Harlan
03/18/2015 McCarty
03/18/2015 Rand
03/18/2015 Riverstog
03/19/2015 Bane
03/19/2015 Meng
03/19/2015 Want
03/20/2015 Copeland
04/03/2015

Pecoraro

03/13/2015 Baker
03/16/2015 Drake
03/24/2015 Broste
03/24/2015 Kepler
03/24/2015 McIntire
03/26/2015 Lacert
03/31/2015 Alexandra
03/31/2015 Haley
03/31/2015 Holloman
03/31/2015 Russell
04/01/2015 Allegra
Geib
04/01/2015
04/01/2015 Hromada
04/01/2015 Sonnenfield
04/01/2015 Yang
04/01/2015
04/02/2015 Green
04/02/2015 Mesnard
Dieter
04/03/2015
04/06/2015 Dadabhoy

Route/Topic Comments
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Rose
Plan
HX US 36
Wants Express service to CCS nights,
Jim
Plan
middays, and weekends
HX US 36
Wants stop for CCS added to US 36 Flatiron
Mary
Plan
Service
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Judy
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Becky
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Nathan
Plan
HX US 36
Concerned for lack of bike access
Ginger
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Andy
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Chris
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Jim
Plan
HX US 36
Wants service to CCS from Flatiron PnR
Peter
Plan
Kent
HX US 36
Wants service from Flatirons to CCS
Plan
Doesn't want S route discontinued or
Briana
S
combined with US 36 plan
Doesn't want S service combined with US 36
Lyndsey
S
plan
Mark
S
Against cuts to Route S
Tasha
S
Against cuts to Route S
Sarah
S
Against cuts to Route S
Corwin
S
Against cuts to Route S
Christine S
Against cuts to Route S
Jessica
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S
Katie
S
Against cuts to Route S
Karen
S
Against cuts to Route S
Robin
S
Against cuts to Route S
Eric
S
Against cuts to Route S - will HX increase
service to make up difference?
Tommy
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S
Nancy
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S
Kay
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S
Amy
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S
Jaren
S
Against cuts in service to S Route
Ilene
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S
Brennadett S
Against cuts in service to S Route
e
Natasha
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S

13.C.c

First

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Date

4

Packet Pg. 165

Date
Last
04/06/2015 Williams
Ruprecht
04/07/2015

First
Collin
Peter

04/09/2015 Curtis
04/09/2015 Dunivant
04/09/2015 Mead

Bob
Melissa
Andrew

04/10/2015 Ramsburg

Douglas

04/14/2015 Judson
04/15/2015 Tschudi
04/20/2015 Zetterholm
04/27/2015 Huff
04/09.15
Engleking
04/31/15
Almdale
03/19/2015 Moskovics
03/23/2015 Karpala
04/02/2015 Brasington
Garioto
04/02/2015

Noah
Mark
Cathy
Ryan
Lisa
Helen
Mtoica
Lidia
Chris
Michael

04/06/2015 Bucks
04/07/2015 Bucks
04/07/2015 Hasler
Bucks
04/08/2015

DA
Gregory
Rachael
Lori

04/08/2015

Winkler

Derek

04/09/2015 Hamilton
04/28/2015 Bressler
04/28/2015 Ogrin
04/30/2015 Tressell

Brendan
Scott
Joyce
John

03/17/2015 Dudley

Bob

02/21/2015 Laiho

Devin

02/21/2015 Tonesen

Gail

02/23/2015 Brockett

Aarto

02/23/2015 Gately

Jim

02/23/2015 Kornish

Ronald

02/23/2015 Munley

Deborah

5

Route/Topic Comments
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S
S
Opposed to cuts to the Route S as well as
less service in several areas
S
Uses route daily - against cuts to service
S
Against cutting service for this route
S
Against cuts to Route S
Concerned over cutbacks to the S Route S
needed service
S
Against cuts to service
S
Against cuts in service to S Route
S
Opposed to cuts in service
S
Against cuts in service to S Route
S
Against cutting service for this route
S
Against cuts to Route S
S
Wants S service to continue
T
Opposed to Route T being cancelled
T
Against cuts to T service
T
Concerned there won't be enough service,
routes already crowded
T
Against cuts to the T Route
T
Opposed to cutting service
T
Against cuts to T service
T
Opposed to cutting service to Tech Center
from Boulder
T
Opposed to cutting service to Tech Center
from Boulder
T
Against cuts to T service
T
Against cuts to T service and 86X
T
Against cutting service for this route
T
Opposed to cutting service to this route
T - US 36
Requesting departure time change that better
Plan
fits with work schedules
Travels from Louisville - changes will add
US 36 Plan
considerable time to commute
Wants more frequent service - 7 minute
US 36 Plan headways - wants compensation for not
getting promised Lt Rail
Requesting more service to accessorize the
US 36 Plan Boulder Junction transit center - minimum
frequency of 30 minute express service
Requesting Express service all day - not only
US 36 Plan during rush hour. Express buses to Boulder
should terminate at 30th/Pearl
Wants promised train or 10-15 minute
US 36 Plan
Express Headways to Denver
Upset over added stops - routes taking longer US 36 Plan motion sickness due to frequent stops

13.C.c

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments

Packet Pg. 166

6

03/10/2015 Birnberg

Ethaqn

03/10/2015 Knodell

Tyler

03/10/2015 Pinsker

Jerry

03/11/2015 Nordston

Devin

Route/Topic Comments
Concerned that express options will be
US 36 Plan
reduced - wants Express service all day.
Wants low ridership routes eliminated - Add
US 36 Plan
Express buses all day
US 36 Plan BRT no substitute for promised rail
Requesting shortening the time it takes from
US 36 Plan
Table Mesa to Denver
US 36 Plan Wants rail service that was promised
Suggested for all service - improvements to
US 36 Plan
BV
UCAR Transportation Manager - wanted
US 36 Plan
contact info
Building patio home in Superior - Concerned
US 36 Plan
about mid-day frequency to area
US 36 Plan Concerned about toll charges
Suggestions for service including Express
US 36 Plan Service to DUS - eliminating low ridership
routes to provide all day Express service
Investor - Concerned with levels of service to
US 36 Plan
"Transit Village"
More cost efficient to drive and park
US 36 Plan
downtown
US 36 Plan Requesting Express service all day
Concerned that Route S service will change US 36 Plan wants "toe seat service" from Denver to East
Boulder
Requesting all day Express Service - every 15
US 36 Plan
minutes
Disappointed with lack of rail - minimal
US 36 Plan improvements in service - lack of bike access

03/13/2015 Leccese

Michael

US 36 Plan

03/13/2015 VanHansen

Erik

US 36 Plan

03/16/2015 Espinoza

Angelique
US 36 Plan
`

03/16/2015 Stevensto

Cheryl

US 36 Plan

03/17/2015 Aizenman

Daniel

US 36 Plan

Linda

US 36 Plan

03/17/2015 Beery

Curt

US 36 Plan

03/17/2015 Moore

Marco

US 36 Plan

Date

Last

First

02/23/2015 Viera

Mariana

02/25/2015 Garristo

Steve

03/02/2015 Clausto

Stan

03/02/2015 Hartung

Tyler

03/04/2015 Dillto

Brendan

03/05/2015 Cruz

Ryan

03/05/2015 Hancock

Jean

03/06/2015 Clark

Betsy

03/07/2015 Johnston

Cynthia

03/08/2015 Mores

Paul

03/09/2015 Dumouchelle

Rebekah

03/10/2015 Abbott-Brown Deborah

03/17/2015

AndesGeorges

Wants DUS and BJTC directly linked - better
service
Concerned for lack of bike access
Boulder Chamber and US36 Mayors Coalition
requesting fair share of FasTracks investment
to their area
Concerned that service will be cut; not true
BRT service, and promises were not kept.
Wants Express service from BJTC to CCS Express from BJTC to Union Station, and
service from Midnight to 2:00 AM
Wants better service to BJTC, Longmont, and
wider availability of Ecopass program.
Concerned about bike access to US36 buses

13.C.c

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments

Wants Express service from BJTC to DUS

Packet Pg. 167

7

Last

First

03/17/2015 Nims

Josh

Route/Topic Comments
Requesting Regional service at lowest possible
US 36 Plan cost between Westminster and Boulder

03/17/2015 Roberts

Matt

US 36 Plan

03/17/2015 Zheng

Xiaowei

US 36 Plan

03/18/2015 Seiffer
03/18/2015 Simto

Jamie
Carrie

US 36 Plan
US 36 Plan

03/18/2015 Vachto

Danielle

US 36 Plan

03/19/2015 Nalezny

John

US 36 Plan

03/19/2015 Scott

M

US 36 Plan

03/25/2015 Stark
03/31/2015 Widener
Cramer

Ted
Williams
Devin

US 36 Plan
US 36 Plan
US 36 Plan

Dorsey

Susan

US 36 Plan

Fuller

Caroline

US 36 Plan

Kent

Donna

US 36 Plan

Tall

Jackie

US 36 Plan

Larissa
Joseph
Justin

US 36 Plan
US 36 Plan
US 36 Plan

Prant

Sue

US 36 Plan

Tayer

John

US 36 Plan

04/10/2015 Ramming

Scott

US 36 Plan

04/15/2015 Martus

David

US 36 Plan

Daniel

US 36 Plan

James
Johanna

US 36 Plan
US 36 Plan

Date

04/02/2015

04/03/2015

04/03/2015
04/03/2015
04/03/2015

04/06/2015 Armand
04/06/2015 Branchaw
Samuel
04/07/2015
04/08/2015
04/08/2015

04/19/2015

Spiewak

04/23/2015 Baily
04/27/2015 Karasik

Wants Express service from BJTC to DUS
Please keep Route T and consider adding
Superior Call-N-Ride back
Concerned for lack of bike access
Concerned for lack of bike access
Wants direct service from BJTC and Union
Station and DIA
Disappointed with lack of rail - minimal
improvements in service - wants free service taxes refunded etc
Disappointed with lack of service to BJTC - no
Sky Ride - Midday, PM, or weekend
Wants stop at Wewatta/Park Avenue
Requesting Express bus from BJTC to US
Concerned about lack of bicycle access,
overcrowding, and requesting another round
of meetings after service has been
implemented.
We should cancel all service cuts; implement
a 20% service increase at BJTC - etc
Concerned about AB reroute - HX no longer
going to CCS, proposing new route from
Flatirons
Against taking Broomfield PnR service to DIA
Many complaints and suggestions regarding
entire plan
Opposed to many of the changes
Opposed to cuts to the Route S
Wants direct service from BJTC and Union
Station
Wants direct service from BJTC to Union
Station
Anxious for transit improvements-should not
suffer reduced service and higher fares at the
same time
Concerned that there seems to be less service
from Church Ranch
Wants non-stop service from Boulder to
Denver - additional bike storage
Opposed to cuts in service or extra stops
which cause motion sickness
Wants express service all day
Against cutbacks in service

13.C.c

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments

Packet Pg. 168

Date

Last

First

04/27/2015 Schneider

Nick

04/27/2015 Silverthorn

Linda

04/28/2015
04/28/2015
04.30.15

8

Route/Topic Comments
Wants direct service from BJTC to DIA US 36 Plan
Union Staiton
Upset over no rail - raised rates - higher taxesUS 36 Plan
etc
US 36 Plan Wants HX to continue - Skyride service from
BJTC, and higher frequencies all day
US 36 Plan Upset over no rail - raised rates - lack of
improved service
US 36 Plan Upset over no rail service - lack of bike access

Baskett

Debra

Goldberg

Vic

Smith

Marshall

Last
Morow

First
Brad

Polow

Hannah

Sobieczky

Florian

Volckausen

Tom

Young

Harry

Route/Topic Comments
S
Wants route the same - worried about
reductions in service
Wants route to remain the same - increase
HX
service
BX
Would like internet, electric outlets, 15 minute
headways
BX
Wants mid-day Express service, service
comparable to Lt Rail
US 36
Wants equitable service to Lt Rail as promised

Stevenson

Cheryl

US 36

189
Comments

Public Hearing Comments (written)
Date
03/16/2015
03/16/2015
03/16/2015
03/16/2015
03/16/2015
03/16/2015
CU Student
Legislative US 36
Government
Council
03/16/2015 Council
Kyriaki
US 36
Boulder
US 36
County
03/16/2015
Transportatito
Dept.
Brown
Richard
03/16/2015
03/16/2015

Campbell

Jim

BX

Cannto

James

US 36

Korba

Dale

US 36

Salisbury

John

HX

03/16/2015
03/16/2015
03/16/2015
03/26/2015

Wants meeting times in newspaper, better
service to DIA, earlier routes, better off-peak
service
Resolution in support of Express Denver-CU
service
In support of Express Denver-CU service
Concerned regarding inequity in fares, reduced
service, increased travel time, addressing
growth
225 Wants increased service to Boulder Rec
Center
Wants direct connection from BJTC to Union
Station, 15 minute headways, mid-day
Express service
Concerned about service along Broadway and
the SKIP
Wants direct Express routes to East side of
Boulder, Express service off-peak
Wants service to continue from Flat Irons to
CCS

13.C.c

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments

Packet Pg. 169

Date
03/16/2015

Last
Brown

03/26/2015 Crawford
03/26/2015 Malmberg

First
Alan
Deborah
Donna

Written Comments at
Public Meetings
Total Written 17
Total via Email and
Phone
Total

17
189
206

9

Route/Topic Comments
Concerned that Westminster Train station will
US36
be underutilized
US 36
Where is the promised rail?
Bikes
Flatirons needs additional bike racks

13.C.c

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments

Packet Pg. 170

Attachment C - Summary of Electronically Received Public Comments

Signatures/
Adtl copies
of letter

220

First
Route/Topic Comments
Petition in support of Boulder Chambers Posiiton
"I agree with the Boulder Chamber that effective, affordable and efficient
transportation is a key infrastructure element for economic vitality in the Northwest
Denver Metro region. I support their position that; US36 BRT service should maximize
investment in transit oriented development and other infrastructure improvements that
communities have made along the corridor, fares for FasTracks related service should
be priced the same across the system, regardless of whether it is bus or rail-based,
and it is unacceptable for our region to suffer reduced service and higher fares at the
same time that we are absorbing thwarted expectations for FasTracks rail
investments.”

13.C.c

Last

Attachment: Attch C Summary of Electronically received Public Comments (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Date

10

Packet Pg. 171

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
1
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 172

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
2
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 173

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
3
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 174

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
4
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 175

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

5

13.C.d

I would like to respectfully suggest that changing the limit for carpooling from two to
three riders for free use of the toll lanes will significantly reduce carpooling from Boulder
to Denver. Currently, I carpool approximately three days per week, and it is very rare to
have two passengers along with myself. Many others in my company also carpool from
Denver to Boulder; however, we all have varied schedules, so it is not usually feasible to
have three people in a carpool. With the exorbitant rates that are being proposed for the
toll lanes and the change from two people to three people for high occupancy, this will
inevitably result in more vehicles in the regular lanes. I am sure that this situation is not
unique to me and my colleagues, and the result of increasing the carpool occupancy from
two to three will be that many cars with two people will now be using the regular lanes.
Based on my use of the HOV lanes, there is not an issue with congestion of these lanes,
so I do not understand why this limit would be increased from two to three other than to
force more people to pay the toll. In summary, the proposal to increase the HOV
definition from two to three people per vehicle will result in under-utilized toll lanes and
more congestion in the regular lanes. If the project partners really wanted to encourage
carpooling, they would not be making this change.
Thank you for consideration of these comments. If there are any questions, I can be
contacted at 303-480-1700 or aearles@wrightwater.com.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Written Comments from Dr. Andrew Earles, P.E. on Carpool Limitations for US 36
and I-25 Express Lane

Packet Pg. 176

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
6
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 177

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

7

13.C.d

Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Ben Petersen
880 City View Dr.
Denver, CO 80229

To whom it may concern:
I am writing as a student at the University of Colorado School of Law regarding the Regional
Transportation District. My classmates and I are concerned about RTD’s proposed route changes
that will leave CU off the list of express bus stops. Furthermore, many of us are dissatisfied with
the existing service that RTD provides, and some of us do not use it at all. We all, however, are
required to pay for it as part of our tuition.
Accordingly, we request that RTD use this opportunity for change to also examine the
functionality that it currently provides to the CU community.
I have a background in transportation management and a strong interest in urban and regional
planning. I also spent most of my life in the San Francisco Bay Area, where I frequently utilized
the BART and Caltrain services. I am speaking for many of my fellow students when I say that
we support the idea of reliable, affordable, and speedy mass transit. We also recognize the
benefits of mass transit regarding the environment and traffic congestion. Here, however, we are
forced into a situation of choosing between unreliable and inconvenient transportation that we
have already unwillingly paid for, or incurring additional transportation expenses.
I have personally had an RTD bus break down on the way to a job interview, which made me
significantly late. My already long one and a half hour commute from Denver to Boulder has
taken as long as three hours due to mysteriously absent or severely delayed buses. These stories
are hardly unique among my classmates. These types of issues can be a serious barrier to the
ability of students to attend law school-related events and arrive at classes on time. Ultimately,
RTD causes problems for us that do not reflect well on CU Law as an institution, or on its
students.
Many students at CU Law rely on RTD for their daily transportation, and any changes that
further threaten our ability to get where we need to go when we need to get there will be severely
problematic for us.
We eagerly await your response.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

March 16, 2015

Sincerely,

Packet Pg. 178

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
8
13.C.d

Ben Petersen

Packet Pg. 179

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

9

13.C.d

March 28, 2015
Regional Transportation District (“RTD”)
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Re: Written Supplement to Comments at 3/26/2015 Broomfield Public Hearing on
US 36 Bus Rapid Transit Service Plan
Dear RTD Board and Staff:
I write to you as a long-time RTD customer and resident of the Via Varra
community in Broomfield. I thank the RTD staff for providing me with the opportunity to
speak at last week’s public hearing in Broomfield about my concerns with the proposed
US 36 Bus Rapid Transit Service Plan (the “Plan”). I understand and respect that the
RTD staff has worked hard to gather data and draft the Plan, but, as discussed below, I
believe the data in the Plan and elsewhere shows that Civic Center service should be
kept at US 36-Flatiron Park-N-Ride (“36-Flatiron”).
I have been a Route HX rider since November 2003, and I have used the 36Flatiron stop to commute to my job at 19th and Stout in Denver since the HX began
service at 36-Flatiron approximately seven years ago. My personal observation from
regularly riding the HX over the years is that during peak morning commute times
(7:00am-7:45am), the 36-Flatiron stop has been a popular option for downtown Denver
commuters. Following its pickup at 36-Flatiron, the HX is usually near capacity and
often with standing room only on Tuesdays. Based on these personal observations, I
believe there is adequate demand to continue Civic Center service at 36-Flatiron. I also
question whether the proposed Boulder Junction-Civic Center route (“BJCC”) will be
able to accommodate the rider demand as a single line with additional stops at the busy
36-Broomfield and 36-Sheridan Park-N-Rides.
Perhaps more importantly, the data in Plan itself justifies continued Civic Center
service at 36-Flatiron.

• Figures 7 and 8 of the Plan reflect that a majority (approx. 55%) of 36-Flatiron
passengers prefer to take the HX route to Civic Center, not the BV to Union Station.
Indeed, the HX is the most popular bus route at 36-Flatiron. That statistic alone calls
into question the Plan’s proposal to eliminate the most popular route at 36-Flatiron
and leave a less utilized route.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

J. Lee Robinson, Esq.
13528 Via Varra
Broomfield, CO 80020

Packet Pg. 180

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

10

13.C.d

Page 2

only on the assessment that the “Flatiron and Church Ranch Station are the least
active stations on the US 36 corridor.” See Plan p. 34. But, I respectfully observe,
the RTD staff has drawn an incorrect conclusion from the data in the Plan with
respect to Civic Center service at 36-Flatiron. As it relates to the HX line, 36-Flatiron
is not an underutilized stop for Civic Center service. Although the 36-Flatiron
stop has less total boarding activity in absolute terms than other Park-N-Rides on US
36, when it comes to Civic Center service, the data in Figure 7, Figure 11, and Figure
14 of the Plan show that approximately 20% (1/5) of current HX passengers board at
36-Flatiron.1 Given that the HX makes five stops before reaching downtown, the stop
at 36-Flatiron is used as much, if not more, than other stops along the route.
Accordingly, there is absolutely no justification in the data collected by RTD in the
Plan to eliminate 36-Flatiron as an underutilized stop for Civic Center service.

• The data in the Plan also reflects that the elimination of 36-Flatiron Civic Center
service could create capacity problems at other Park-N-Rides in terms of available
parking. According to Figure 14 of the Plan, although there is currently abundant
parking at 36-Flatiron, 36-McCaslin Park-N-Ride is at 86% of parking capacity, leaving
only 65 available parking spaces. A large number of HX riders at 36-Flatiron park at
the private parking lot on the mall side of US 36 and not the Park-N-Ride itself. As
such, Figure 14 does not adequately reflect the true number of cars that would have
to be shifted to other Park-N-Rides. If even half of the current HX riders at 36-Flatiron
(approx. 71) decide to depart from 36-McCaslin for Civic Center service, there will be
inadequate parking capacity at 36-McCaslin. In addition, there will be absolutely no
room for growth (such as for the proposed and in construction mixed-use Superior
Town Center just off McCaslin). Accordingly, the RTD parking lot capacity data set
forth in the Plan also supports retaining the existing Civic Center service at 36Flatiron.
In addition, my personal experience and observation is that the 36-Flatiron stop
is a utilized and convenient drop off point for “kiss and go” riders who share cars with
their spouses/partners. That is because the 36-Flatiron parking lot is located very close
to the exit ramps on US 36, unlike both 36-Broomfield and 36-McCaslin. Those other
stops have convoluted entrance/exit patterns for passenger pickup on both sides and
inadequate visible parking spots for cars waiting for passengers. Thus, the 36-Flatiron
route to Civic Center should be maintained and promoted as an excellent place for
people to practice car-sharing for commuting to downtown Denver and to increase RTD
ridership. This advances RTD’s mission and the promise and spirit of FasTracks.
Finally, while the data and observations set forth above already provide
compelling evidence that continued Civic Center service at 36-Flatiron is warranted by
existing demand, residential patterns surrounding the 36-Flatiron stop also show that

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

• The RTD staff has justified the elimination of Civic Center service at 36-Flatiron based

1 Per Figure 7, approximately 55% of 36-Flatiron riders take the HX. According to Figure 11, that would be

approximately 142 riders (259 x 55%). Thus, according to Figure 11, HX ridership from 36-Flatiron is about 21.8%
(142/649).

Packet Pg. 181

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

11

13.C.d

demand for enhanced commuter options will only increase, not diminish. According to a
recent article in the Broomfield Enterprise (10/29/14), the Broomfield Planning and
Zoning Commission has already approved construction of 1,403 apartment units, 59
condos, and a 100+ room hotel in the Via Varra area within a short walking distance to
36-Flatiron, many of which are already built. Indeed, in the last several months alone,
the Broomfield Planning and Zoning Commission has approved the construction of 388
new residential units in the Via Varra community. As such, the residential growth
patterns in Broomfield and Superior demonstrate that 36-Flatiron service to Civic Center
should be retained to support high-density residential development and growth in
Broomfield and to accommodate US 36 corridor commuters in a fashion they have
come to expect from RTD, especially under FasTracks.
Based on the foregoing, I respectfully suggest one of the following modifications
to the Plan to provide a better level of service to RTD customers along the US 36
corridor, and particularly at 36-Flatiron:
1) 1st Preferred Solution (Two Civic Center Routes) - Given the current popularity
of the existing HX route to Civic Center and RTD’s interest in maintaining appropriate
levels of service capacity and travel speeds, I would propose that the BJCC, like the
routes to Union Station, be divided into two separate routes. The modified BJCC would
follow the existing HX route with service to 36-Table Mesa, 36-McCaslin, and 36-Flatiron
to Civic Center. A new Broomfield-Westminster to Civic Center (BWCC) should be
created to service 36-Broomfield, 36-Church Ranch, and 36-Sheridan to Civic Center. I
believe the new BWCC line would, as the HX, be a popular and well-received addition
to US 36 service that could expand and/or improve ridership for those who need to
travel to work in the traditional government and business sections of downtown. And
importantly, this modification will result in no reduction in service for current HX riders
from any station. This proposed solution will also address likely capacity issues on the
BJCC route and certain RTD parking lots along the US 36 corridor.
2) 2nd Preferred Solution (Adding BJCC Stop at 36-Flatiron) - Adding an
additional bus stop to an already existing Park-N-Ride such as 36-Flatiron results in
minimal additional costs for RTD and a very slight delay in route service times. To the
contrary, the proposed Plan, if unmodified, imposes a significantly longer and more
inconvenient commute on approximately 1/5 of the HX passengers who currently board
at 36-Flatiron. As noted above, there is no economic or demographic justification for
imposing such hardships on a significant number of RTD’s US 36 customers. At a
minimum, RTD should add a US 36-Flatiron stop on the BJCC route at peak commuting
times (7-8am; 4:30-6pm). The RTD staff’s desire for simplicity of presentation of the
service levels is not a reasonable justification for imposing a longer and more
inconvenient commute on a large number of HX riders. People who ride the regional
commuter buses have not in the past and will not in the future have any difficulty
determining the appropriate commuting routes on US 36 even if a route has limited,
additional service stops during peak commuting hours. This is especially true given the
rise of public transit mobile phone apps and maps (like Google Maps) and availability of
real-time Internet tracking of buses.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Page 3

Packet Pg. 182

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

12

13.C.d

3) 3rd Preferred Solution (Local Civic Center Service) - This option would convert
the BJCC to a local service to Civic Center with service to all stops on the US 36
corridor. This option is certainly preferable to no Civic Center service at 36-Flatiron. It
would provide one seat/no transfer service to Civic Center, which is much better for
passengers in bad weather conditions and for passengers with bicycles or luggage. It
would also address the potential parking capacity issues along US 36 noted above.
While this option would still constitute a degradation of existing HX service to 36-Flatiron
(and areas to the Northwest) by resulting in somewhat longer commute times for all
current HX riders, it is a significant improvement to the proposed Plan.
I thank the RTD Board and Staff for your time and consideration of my comments
and recommended improvements to the Plan. In particular, I hope that the RTD staff
concludes to maintain a Civic Center route to 36-Flatiron as part of the proposed
Flatirons Flyer BRT.

Sincerely,
J. Lee Robinson, Esq.
(303) 915-1577
robinsonjl@outlook.com

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Page 4

Packet Pg. 183

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
13
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 184

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
14
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 185

15

April 8, 2015
Phil Washington, General Manager
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, Colorado 80202
Dear Mr. Washington:
Effective, affordable and efficient transportation is a key infrastructure element for economic vitality in
the Northwest Denver Metro region.
The Boulder Chamber has recently been in conversation with our regional Chamber and Economic
Development colleagues about regional housing, transportation and jobs. It is clear that we share a
common interest in the regional transit that RTD delivers and plans to deliver.
As you gather input on the RTD Fare Study and the US 36 BRT Operations Plan, we wish to convey our
support for the position statement of the US 36 Mayors & Commissioners Coalition and 36 Commuting
Solutions. We also concur with the City of Boulder in their letter to you. In particular, we would like to
emphasize the following points:
•
•
•

US36 BRT service should maximize investment in transit oriented development and other
infrastructure improvements that communities have made along the corridor;
Fares for FasTracks related service should be priced the same across the system, regardless of
whether it is bus or rail-based;
It is unacceptable for our region to suffer reduced service and higher fares at the same time that
we are absorbing thwarted expectations for FasTracks rail investments.

Sincerely,

John L. Tayer
President & CEO
Boulder Chamber

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 186

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

16

13.C.d

April 14th, 2015
To whom it may concern:
I am writing on behalf of the student body at CU Boulder. I am the Director of City and
Neighborhood Relations for CU Student Government Executive Staff. Matters such as the RTD
changes fall within my jurisdiction and recently, I have heard some concern for students who are
commuters, and those who live nearby. The proposed changes to the 36 corridor due to the new
Bus Rapid Transit line are going to hurt people. We have a large (and growing) population
comprised of students, faculty, and staff who are pushed to cities outside of Boulder because the
rent is so expensive in the areas that immediately surround campus. In addition, a little less than
half of our student population comes from out-of-state and relies heavily on the SkyRide service
to Denver International Airport when they want to visit their families over break. When I first
heard of the changes I was confused because the information about them that is readily available
does not really paint a picture of the multitude of effects they will have on the community. It was
not until something was posted in our CU-Boulder Today publication that I could really grasp
how these changes would impact students.
When I learned that the SkyRide service was going to stop at the Broomfield Park and
Ride I thought of those students who will have to make multiple bus changes with their heavy
suitcases, will have to pay more for park-and-ride accommodations, and/or will experience
significant delays while traveling to the airport. As we all know, catching a flight is time
sensitive and having to calculate how long it will take one to arrive is crucial.
The rates for certain bus lines will change and I am wondering how this will effect
student fees. The Environmental Center here at CU pays for bus passes and promotes public
transportation around Boulder, but with higher costs I am concerned how the University will
approach payment for RTD next year. The proposed changes eliminate one of the only bus routes
that takes students to East Campus. The students who work and attend class on East Campus are
typically graduate students doing research. This is exactly the population that is pushed out of
Boulder due to cost and to make it harder for them to reach their final destination does an
incredible amount of harm—especially for those who are required to be flexible to get to campus
in case something goes wrong with their research.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Eileen Sherman
1030 12th Street
Boulder, CO 80302

The Bus Rapid Transit sounds like a great service—it will benefit students and
community members alike. With the delay of the Light Rail it seems like a beneficial solution,

Packet Pg. 187

17

but I do not believe that CU students, faculty, and staff should suffer because of it. Perhaps RTD
can make more of an effort to take these populations into consideration and can do more
outreach and education in the community-at-large regarding the consequences of these changes.
Thank you for taking the time to consider the student opinion and I look forward to hearing from
you soon.
Eileen Sherman
Director of City and Neighborhood Relations
CU Student Government Executive Staff

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 188

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

18

13.C.d

Introduction and Timeline
RTD recently released its proposed service plan for its FasTracks Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
system planned to open on US 36 in January 2016, announcing five public meetings to garner
public input in the corridor, along with an email address for input outside of the meetings. The
first public meeting was in Boulder on Monday March 16th; the last is at noon in Denver, April
13. Deadline for all comment is May 1; with the RTD board set to act on the plan May 21st.
The meeting schedule and additional information, including where you can email your
comments, can be found at http://www.rtd-denver.com/servicechanges-us36.shtml. If you do
provide your comments by email, include your RTD District Director as a recipient. To identify
your Director and find his or her email address, go to Look up Your Director.
RTD also released the results of its Fare Study. It is a plan to revise the structure of the entire
fare system prior to opening four new FasTracks corridors in 2016. At the same time, RTD
plans to implement an overall fare increase, the first since 2011. Fifteen public meetings will be
held throughout the entire Transportation District, one in each RTD Director’s electoral district,
starting March 23, wrapping up April 8, with final comments due by April 8. Boulder’s Fare
Study meeting is on April 6th at 6 PM at the Boulder Public Library. The meeting schedule and
additional information, including the opportunity to provide your comments online, can be found
at http://www.rtd-denver.com/fare-recommendation.shtml. In addition to submitting your
comments on line, you may send them by email to your RTD District Director. To identify your
Director and find his or her email address, go to Look up Your Director.
Background
The US 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition (MCC) and 36 Commuting Solutions, of
which CU-Boulder is a member, have provided substantial feedback on the changes proposed
in the current RTD plan for US 36 BRT. RTD has made no changes based upon that feedback
and these groups feel that the proposed service levels fail to meet the needs of a growing
corridor.
Impact of RTD’s Plans on the University and Its Constituents
With the rollout of US 36 FasTracks BRT service in January, 2016, RTD plans to:
• Add no new peak-hour express service to campus along Broadway; it had been expected
that peak-hour express service would be improved with construction of the FasTracks US
36 BRT Express Lanes.
• Eliminate existing mid-day (9 a.mm to 3:30 p.m.) express service between Denver and
CU/Downtown Boulder.
• Eliminate the current S route that brings commuters north from Denver Union Station and
communities along US 36, directly to CU-Boulder’s East Campus along Arapahoe.
• Eliminate existing direct AB SkyRide service to DIA south of the Flatirons Park-n-Ride at
NW Parkway. CU affiliates living in Broomfield and Westminster will no longer have direct
service to DIA.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

University of Colorado Boulder response to RTD FasTracks Proposed Service Plan for
US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) and RTD plan to revise fare system district-wide

Packet Pg. 189

•

•
•
•
•
•

19

13.C.d

RTD dropped its plan to add express service to the growing CU-Boulder East Campus from
Table Mesa Park-n-Ride as the 209X. CU-Boulder had already planned $20K in bus stop
improvements at the new Sustainability Energy and Environment Complex, which was
planned to contribute to the project’s LEED Platinum rating.
Provide no US 36 corridor service to or from the new Boulder Junction Station (near 33rd &
Pearl) between 9 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. weekdays; no weekend or evening corridor service.
Provide no SkyRide service to DIA from the new Boulder Junction Station.
Provide no direct service between Boulder Junction and Denver Union Station.
The new RTD BRT vehicles have less bike-on-board capacity (going from 8 bikes to 6).
This will be felt most acutely during peak-hour service - local, express and regional – where
bike-on-bus capacity is frequently maxed-out.
“Express” BRT service would be priced at the higher “Regional” fare.

Goals CU-Boulder is supporting along with US 36 Commuting Solutions and the US 36
Mayors and Commissioners Coalition:
• Maximize US 36 BRT corridor investments; increase express service to meet the
anticipated increase in demand that will accompany the announcement of BRT.
• Retain current transit ridership and attract new ridership.
• Better serve growing transit markets on East Campus, in East Boulder and elsewhere
throughout the corridor.
• Design US 36 BRT service with enough capacity to ensure a high quality customer
experience on opening day.
• RTD operating investment for US 36 that is comparable to other FasTracks corridors.
• US 36 BRT is setting the precedent for BRT in our region. It is important that the service
and fares are implemented appropriately the first time as it will be the foundation to build
metro-wide support for future BRT services throughout the District.
What we are requesting RTD to do
Bring slightly more operations funding to the table; enough to:
• Eliminate all proposed service cuts, particularly the S route, mid-day Express Service
between Downtown Boulder and Denver Union Station and the AB SkyRide for Broomfield
and Westminster.
• Implement a modest (20%) opening day increase over current peak-hour regional Express
Service at Boulder Transit Center, serving CU-Boulder along Broadway.
• Provide mid-day service between Boulder Junction and Denver on 28th Street, on the east
side of CU-Boulder’s Main Campus.
• Provide AB SkyRide service between Boulder Junction and DIA.
• Provide service between Boulder Junction and Denver Union Station.
• Price “Express BRT” service with the “Express” fare level, rather than at the higher
“Regional” fare.
• Price all trips between the McCaslin Station and Table Mesa Station as local trips. The
same trip on the same vehicle is currently priced at three different fares.
• Commit to a cooperative effort with stakeholder involvement to improve the benefits and
minimize adverse impacts to the Eco Pass and College Pass programs related to changes
to the fare structure.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 190

20

13.C.d

Desired outcomes
• For US 36 BRT to be in the position to welcome all existing and new riders who turn out for
the heavily marketed, long-awaited, highly visible new BRT service. We do not want to see
riders turned away because no new capacity is being provided to CU-Boulder on Broadway
in Boulder in the peak hour.
• To minimize the numbers who negatively experience the rollout of the US 36 BRT due to
service cuts, service reductions and increased inconvenience due to forced transfers.
• For US 36 BRT to be seen as an outstanding success. Two more BRT services are now
entering the planning stages: Diagonal HWY 119 between Longmont and Boulder; and
HWY 7 (on Arapahoe and Baseline) between Brighton and Boulder. Their success will be
linked to the success of RTD’s first BRT line on US 36.
Other Facts about CU-Boulder, FasTracks and US 36 BRT
• Approximately 8,500 CU-Boulder faculty, staff and students commute daily on some portion
of the US 36 BRT corridor; half of this number currently uses RTD at least one day a week.
There is a large potential for ridership growth among CU-Boulder -bound commuters
travelling the corridor daily, as all hold RTD transit passes and all must pay to park
anywhere on Campus.
• US 36 Corridor communities voted strongly in favor of the 2004 FasTracks $0.004/dollar
sales tax increase that has provided RTD 67% more sales tax revenue per dollar over the
last decade, amounting to an added $233 million for FasTracks through 2014.
• RTD puts the increased operating cost of their service plan for US 36 BRT at $900K to $1
million per year above what they currently spend operating existing service in the corridor.
This is only an approximate 10% increase over current service. Existing service is funded
out of the pre-FasTracks $0.006/dollar RTD sales tax.
• RTD collected $27.7 million from the NW area corridor communities (all of Boulder County
plus Broomfield and Westminster) in 2014 from the $0.004/dollar FasTracks tax alone and
plans to spend only $1 million per year in FasTracks funds to provide FasTracks operating
enhancements to existing service in the corridor.
• RTD’s annual FasTracks sales tax revenue from the corridor communities has grown by an
average of $1.3 Million per year over the last five years.
• In rolling out new services in five other FasTracks corridors, RTD has not attempted to hold
any other corridor so closely to the base operating budget of the pre-FasTracks services in
the corridor.
• RTD is revising its fare structure at the same time. Their plan would reduce fares on much
of RTD’s rail service while increasing fares on most of their bus services, leading to a
situation where bus passengers will subsidize rail passengers. This has ramifications
beyond a rider’s choice between rail and bus to get from point A to point B. There is no rail
service in the NW corridor, between Westminster, Boulder and Longmont, only bus service.
As proposed, with light rail fares declining in Denver and bus fares increasing in the NW
corridor, the new fare structure would introduce another dimension to the regional inequity
already seen for the NW corridor. The FasTracks NW Rail line between Westminster,
Boulder and Longmont, initially scheduled for completion in January 2015, is now delayed
at least thirty years, to 2045.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 191

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

21

13.C.d

Route S Survey
• Ü
Question
Summaries

•

tData

•

UIndividual
Responses

Q1

How often do you ride the Route S bus to work?
•
Daily
A few times a
week
A few times a
month
A few times a
year
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
Answer Choices

•

Answered: 62
Skipped: 1

Responses

Daily

56.45%
35

A few times a week

19.35%
12

A few times a month

9.68%
6

A few times a year

14.52%
9

Total

62

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Trends

Packet Pg. 192

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

22

13.C.d

3/13/2015 3:21 PM

Where do you get on the Route S
bus on your way to
work? (Nearest major intersection
or Park-n-Ride lot)
•

Answered: 63
• Skipped: 0

•

Union Station
4/6/2015 5:01 PM

Broomfield Park-n-Ride
3/17/2015 3:37 PM

Park and Delgany
3/16/2015 3:15 PM

Westminster
3/16/2015 12:06 PM

Westminster Park-n-Ride
3/16/2015 11:40 AM

McCaslin
3/16/2015 10:43 AM

36 & McCaslin
3/16/2015 9:48 AM

Union Station
3/16/2015 9:44 AM

Broomfield Park-n-Ride
3/16/2015 9:32 AM

McCaslin Park-n-Ride (Louisville)
3/16/2015 9:12 AM

Union Station
3/16/2015 9:09 AM

Table Mesa
3/16/2015 8:48 AM

macaslin road
3/16/2015 8:18 AM

Westminster PnR
3/16/2015 8:16 AM

westminster pnr
3/15/2015 9:43 PM

Union Station Denver
3/15/2015 6:26 PM

US 36 & Table Mesa PnR Gate C
3/14/2015 6:02 PM

20th and Chestnut
3/13/2015 4:47 PM

Westminster Park & Ride
3/13/2015 4:14 PM

Union Station
3/13/2015 3:56 PM

Broomfield Park-n-Ride
3/13/2015 3:55 PM

Park Ave and Delgany
3/13/2015 3:53 PM

Broomfield Park-n-Ride
3/13/2015 3:48 PM

Union Station
3/13/2015 3:46 PM

Westminster Park-N-Ride
3/13/2015 3:43 PM

Union station
3/13/2015 3:39 PM

Union Station in Denver.
3/13/2015 3:26 PM

Union Station
3/13/2015 3:24 PM

Denver Union Station
3/13/2015 3:20 PM

Louisville McCaslin PnR
3/13/2015 3:18 PM

Union Station
3/13/2015 3:18 PM

McCaslin
3/13/2015 3:15 PM

McCaslin Park-n-Ride
3/13/2015 3:13 PM

Broomfield Park n Ride or McCauslin Park-n-Ride
3/13/2015 3:13 PM

McCaslin Park-n-ride
3/13/2015 3:10 PM

Broomfield PnR
3/13/2015 3:09 PM

Vary
3/13/2015 3:08 PM

Union Station
3/13/2015 3:07 PM

Sheridan park n ride
3/13/2015 3:06 PM

Union Station / 21st and Wewatta
3/13/2015 3:06 PM

Westminster Park and Ride
3/13/2015 3:05 PM

Mc Caslin
3/13/2015 3:05 PM

Union Station
3/13/2015 3:04 PM

US 36 & McCaslin PnR
3/13/2015 3:02 PM

Broomfield Park-n-Ride
3/13/2015 3:02 PM

Wewatta St - 21st St
3/13/2015 3:00 PM

Table mesa Park-n-ride
3/13/2015 3:00 PM

Union Station - Denver
3/13/2015 3:00 PM

Westminster Park and Ride
3/13/2015 2:57 PM

Denver
3/13/2015 2:57 PM

Westminster
3/13/2015 2:57 PM

union station
3/13/2015 2:57 PM

westminster park and ride
3/13/2015 11:37 AM

Union Station PnR
3/13/2015 11:36 AM

21st and wewatta
3/13/2015 11:35 AM

Union Station
3/13/2015 11:31 AM

Union Station
3/13/2015 11:31 AM

Westminster PnR
3/13/2015 11:30 AM

Pearl
3/13/2015 9:22 AM

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Q2

Union Station
3/13/2015 9:18 AM

Union Station
3/12/2015 8:42 AM

Broomfield park n ride
3/13/2015 3:22 PM

Westminster Park and Ride

Packet Pg. 193

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
Q3

Central & Flatirons

Where do you get off of the Route
S bus in Boulder? (Nearest major
intersection or Park-n-Ride lot)

3/13/2015 3:18 PM

Answered: 63
• Skipped: 0

Flatirons and Central
4/6/2015 5:01 PM

Central Ave and Flatirons Prky
3/17/2015 3:37 PM

Flatirons Parkway and Central Ave.
3/16/2015 3:15 PM

Flatirons Business Park
3/16/2015 12:06 PM

Central Avenue, Flatirons Park
3/16/2015 11:40 AM

Central
3/16/2015 10:43 AM

Central Ave - Flatiron Pkwy
3/16/2015 9:48 AM

Flatirons Office Park
3/16/2015 9:44 AM

Central and Flatirons PKWY
3/16/2015 9:32 AM

Central Ave and Flatirons Pkwy (Boulder)
3/16/2015 9:12 AM

Central and Flatirons
3/16/2015 9:09 AM

Central Ave - Flatiron Pkwy
3/16/2015 8:48 AM

55th and flatiron parkway
3/16/2015 8:18 AM

Flatiron Parkway and Central Avenue
3/16/2015 8:16 AM

central and flatiron
3/15/2015 9:43 PM

Flatirons park
3/15/2015 6:26 PM

Central Ave – Flatiron Pkwy
3/14/2015 6:02 PM

Flatirons Parkway and Central Ave
3/13/2015 4:47 PM

Flatirons & Central
3/13/2015 4:14 PM

Central & Flatirons parkway
3/13/2015 3:56 PM

Flatirons Parkway W and Central Ave
3/13/2015 3:55 PM

Central Ave & Flatirons Parkway
3/13/2015 3:53 PM

55th and Arapahoe
3/13/2015 3:48 PM

Flatirons and 55th
3/13/2015 3:46 PM

Flatirons Park
3/13/2015 3:43 PM

Central Avenue (Flatirons Business Park)
3/13/2015 3:39 PM

Flatiron Parkway and Central Ave
3/13/2015 3:26 PM

38th and Marine
3/13/2015 3:24 PM

13.C.d

Central Ave & Flatirons
3/13/2015 3:18 PM

Arapaho and Marine
3/13/2015 3:15 PM

Flatirons Prkwy - West
3/13/2015 3:13 PM

Flatirons and Central in the Flatirons business park
3/13/2015 3:13 PM

Flatirons Parkway East
3/13/2015 3:10 PM

Central Ave. & Flatiron Pkwy West
3/13/2015 3:09 PM

Central Ave - Flatiron Pkw
3/13/2015 3:08 PM

Central and Flatirons Parkway W
3/13/2015 3:07 PM

central ave
3/13/2015 3:06 PM

Aparahoe and Marine St. / Flatirons Park
3/13/2015 3:06 PM

Central and Flatirons Parkway
3/13/2015 3:05 PM

Arapahoe&55th
3/13/2015 3:05 PM

The 'Central Ave - Flatiron Pkwy' stop
3/13/2015 3:04 PM

Central & Flatirons
3/13/2015 3:02 PM

Broomfield Park-n-Ride
3/13/2015 3:02 PM

Central Ave - Flatiron Pkwy
3/13/2015 3:00 PM

Flatiorn parkway & Central
3/13/2015 3:00 PM

Flatirons & central
3/13/2015 3:00 PM

Last stop: Flatiron Parkway and Central Avenue
3/13/2015 2:57 PM

Boulder
3/13/2015 2:57 PM

Central Avenue and Flatiron Pkwy
3/13/2015 2:57 PM

arapahoe and 55th
3/13/2015 2:57 PM

Central Avenue - Flatiron Pkwy
3/13/2015 11:37 AM

Flatiron Park
3/13/2015 11:36 AM

Central Ave and Flatiron Pkwy
3/13/2015 11:35 AM

Flatirons Park
3/13/2015 11:31 AM

Central Ave - Flatiron Pkwy
3/13/2015 11:31 AM

Central Ave – Flatiron Pkwy
3/13/2015 11:30 AM

55th st
3/13/2015 9:22 AM

55th and Flatirons Pkwy
3/13/2015 9:18 AM

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

•

23

Flatiron Park
3/12/2015 8:42 AM

Flatiron business park
3/13/2015 3:22 PM

Central and Flatirons Parkway
3/13/2015 3:21 PM

Arapahoe & Marine
3/13/2015 3:20 PM

Packet Pg. 194

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

24

13.C.d

Q4

Which of the following do you prefer?
•

Answered: 63
Skipped: 0

A shorter trip
time
A
one-seat-rid...
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
Answer Choices

Responses

A shorter trip time

17.46%
11

A one-seat-ride (no transfer)

82.54%
52

Total

63

Q5

Would you continue to use transit knowing you need to transfer to the 206
bus to get to Flatirons Park?
•

•

YesNo
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
Answer Choices

Answered: 62
Skipped: 1

Responses

Yes

19.35%
12

No

80.65%
50

Total

62

Q6

Do you have any other comments, questions, or concerns?
•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•

Answered: 43
Skipped: 20

Please keep the Rout S. Critical for me and several other folks I work with.
I did not answer No. 5 above, because I am not sure what to do. If making the transfer is too difficult or
otherwise problematic, I may choose to drive into Boulder each day.
If I were going continue to use this route would strongly depend on how long the trip from Boulder
Junction at Depot Square to Flatirons and Central would take. How many bus options 206 bus options
per hour would be available- it would be awful if there was an accident on the 36 and there were limited
number of 206 buses and therefore I had to wait an excessive amount of time. The ride already takes
an hour and a half, more than double what it takes me to simply drive, so really this is only saving me
gas money, not any frustration or ease of commute. Also I am very frustrated by this because I
specifically picked where I lived in downtown Denver to be able to readily and easily be able to use this
specific bus.
The one seat ride is a key benefit. The transfer to 206 would be ok if there were equally improved
service - minimizing the transfer time. The 206 service in its current form would be grossly insufficient.
Please don't cancel this route.
I recently bought a home in Denver with the expectation that i could take a single bus from Union
Station to Flatirons Park. I don't mind a longer ride, as i can do more work on the bus, if it is single route
(no transfer). Please save the S route for future commuting.
The "S" route is extremely convenient because of where I can catch it near my home and because of
the drop-off location. With our erratic weather, I value the fact that I can get on the bus and not have to
get off until I am at my office building. Having to wait outside to transfer to another bus would be
inconvenient and probably make the commute longer. That would be very discouraging. I have coworkers that must ride the bus every day and this add additional stress to their day.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

•

Packet Pg. 195

•
•

•

•
•
•

•

•
•

•

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

13.C.d

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
25
Please do not get rid of this bus. Not having a transfer is the main draw for utilizing RTD as transport to
work. This will result in many more cars on 36 commuting to work.
i have already asked for the S to stop and flatiron PNR on 36 so i do not have to transfer from the BV.
Eliminating the S is even more annoying. The 206F only runs a few times a day so we have to walk to
catch the 206 at night. I want to keep the S and increase the stops on 36. With the express lanes, trip
time will still decrease.
I bike to the bus, so at every transfer I would need to unload my bike and load it again on another bus.
It doesn't seem like much, but that in and of itself can be a pain. That is why the one-seat ride is so
appealing to me. I typically ride the 7:01 from Westminster PnR and the bus is always full. I also take
the 4:03 S from work and it is full as well, so I'm not sure why this bus would be taken away. Please do
not cancel this service, it is a huge benefit for me and my fellow employees that take it!
I work for Markit, the largest company in Flatirons park with 500+ employees.Many of our employees
count on this bus line.
Keep the S route as is!
I'm able to drive from my home in downtown Denver to my office in east Boulder in 45 minutes, and my
mode of transportation is ultra reliable. If shorter trip times were my goal I would drive. Currently on the
S route I have a single block of time that allows me to spend 60 minutes reading, napping, or working
on my laptop between union station and east boulder. I board the bus from union station where it's
covered and climate controlled, and I'm able to get a good seat on the bus. If transfers are introduced,
the 10 or 20 minutes of possibly reduced time does not offset the cost of having that commute time
broken into periods that are much less conducive to reading/working/napping, introducing the possibility
of needing to stand out in the cold/rain, knowing that the next bus I get on may not have any seats,
higher chance of losing items on the bus.... Transfer routes are less reliable than one-seat-rides,
especially on snowy days when the chances of a missed transfer is highest. The round trip time savings
would have to be very significant to make up for the increased overhead of a transfer. Unless we're
looking at taking a total 75 minute trip down to a total 30 minute trip, the unreliability that is introduced
doesn't feel worth it. If I have to take a 30 minute ride, wait 10 minutes for a transfer, and then take
another 20 minute ride, that 15 minute time savings (over a 75 minute one-seat-ride) isn't worth the
cost of losing reliability and uninterrupted blocks of time that can be used for other activities. If I have to
be actively engaged with that is happening throughout the entire trip, I'm likely to start driving. If there
were a system in place that allowed riders to track each of the buses in real time on google maps and
know if they missed a transfer or how far away the next bus is, the introduced risks would feel less
substantial. If there was a way to notify drivers that you intend to transfer from bus ABC to bus XYZ (so
bus XYZ wouldn't leave 30 seconds before bus ABC arrived) the introduced risks would feel less
substantial. If there were a way to know that bus XYZ has no seats left, the introduced risks would feel
less substantial. As it stands, having to do a transfer (especially on snowy days) is playing Russian
roulette. Ultimately reliability is the reason people like trains over buses. The schedule of trains is much
harder to interrupt than the schedule of buses.
My firm is one of the largest employers in Flatirons Park and we risk to lose 10-15% of our staff if the S
route is discontinued. Not only will it be a loss to the local economy, but it may have financial
ramifications for RTD as our firm may no longer participate in the Eco-pass program if these benefits
are discontinued to the employees.
I am a hiring manager at Markit On Demand. When we are interviewing candidates it is very beneficial
for us to highlight that we have a number of employees that live in Denver and a direct bus is available.
This helps open up our pool of possible candidates to the Denver Metro area.
In regards to question 5: if the BRT system in conjunction with a transfer on the 206 gets me from
Union Station to my stop at Central/Flatiron quicker than the Route S does now then I would support
that. Transfers are probably the biggest friction point for riders. I live 1.7 miles from Union Station but I
have to leave my apartment at 7:00 AM to catch the 7:30AM S bus. If transferring to the 206 adds
another 15-20 minutes or more to my ride time then I'll most likely stop using the RTD. If the BRT
coming up 36 is delayed, am I waiting 15-20 minutes for the next 206 or will you increase 206
frequency during peak hours? I also think having real-time data on bus locations would help alleviate
some of the stress of transfers.
It is because of the S bus that I started using RTD. I am not sure I would continue if the schedule
changed.

Packet Pg. 196

•
•

•

•
•
•

•

•

•

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

13.C.d

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
26
Many people are riding s please don't cancel it. I am coming from broomfield - 469 west state highway
7 broomfield 80023 where there is no Rtd available.
I ride the S at least 3 times per week (sometimes more) and I do so mainly because I get on one bus
and it takes me from the Westminster PnR right to my office at the corner of Central and Flatirons
Parkway. I have been riding this bus for several years and I love it just the way it is. Many, many people
at my company, Markit on Demand, ride the S on a daily basis and the proposed change will impact a
lot of people. I seriously doubt that I will continue to ride the bus if the S is no longer an option and I
have to make a transfer.
I just moved to Denver and work in Boulder. I was originally living in Boulder, but couldn't afford the
housing and saw a great opportunity to live in Denver to save money, and commute to Boulder for my
job. I only decided this move was feasible after finding out about the S bus service. This made it so
much easier for me to get to and from Denver and my work, which is right down the street from Fate
Brewing Company. I already ride my bike from my house, to Union Station, load it on the bus, and take
it into Boulder every day. If the S bus service is eliminated, it'll add another leg to my already very long
commute. I barely have enough time as it is to get to and from work, and still enjoy any time before or
after to exercise, etc. The bus is VERY busy every day I ride it - both to and from Denver. There's quite
a few people in my office who take it, and we really would be negatively impacted by removal of the S
line. I'm incredibly stressed thinking about my commute will be if it's removed. Please keep the S bus
as it is heavily used by the large amount of people who work in East Boulder who need a singular
commute vehicle to get to and from work. The more segments and transfers you add to a commute the
more difficult it become, and the less likely people will be to use it. I have a car that I don't use to go to
work now, but if I'm forced to transfer buses and increase my commute, I'll have to drive. Thank you for
your consideration.
o I've found the 206 connection to be unreliable at Table Mesa. 2. The 206 only comes every 1/2
hour, so if you miss the connection, the penalty is high. 3. What's with the 8am 206 that doesn't
come all the way to the tech center and stops at 55th & Arapahoe? 4. Connections always add
a degree of inefficiency that makes it more worthwhile to drive RTD can pretend that the travel
time is the same or faster with a connection. But that's assuming a tight connection time. If you
add in 10-15 minutes that you need to plan for so you're not late. It no longer makes sense.
Frequently the S bus is running 10-15 minutes late in the morning! Thanks!
This route is a must. There's too many employees that work in East Boulder to remove this route?
Transferring would be less reliable.
I love the S bus.
Best thing about taking S is that even when it snows we can take a ride because we don't have to
change bus in between to reach our office which makes a lots of difference and comforting during
winter. And don't forget the instances when some one has to give their cars for maintenance and still be
happy to take S straight to their office.There are tons of people who take this bus everyday because it
takes straight to the door steps of our offices. In the last 9mnths I have tried at least 6 different
schedules of S and was wondered how the seats are always filled with people.Believe it or not there
are at least 8people who takes this bus to my office everyday.
The schedule for the 206 to busses such as the B never really line up very well. Also the 206 that
doesn't go all the way to the flat irons park, and instead goes to the high school, isn't very well marked
and I've been on it only to be kicked off at the Dinner Theater. So better schedule match and markings
of alternative buses is needed.
I already have to take 2 buses to get to work because the S doesn't stop at Flatirons park-n-ride. I
prefer the S over the 206 bus because it drops me off closer to work, because it goes into the business
park. The 206F would be a good alternative to the S if only it had earlier routes, because it too comes
into the business park.
Route 206 runs every 30 minutes and due to service adjustments the 206F only services the Flatirons
Business Park a few times a day and after 9AM in the mornings (most people are already at work by
9AM!!!). The improvements along 36 only get riders into Boulder faster, we're still hindered by how
frequent local routes run. This is why the S is so important. Riders are guaranteed a consistent arrival
time (barring traffic delays). In the new plan, riders would be dependent on arriving to Boulder Junction
on time to make a transfer or risk a 29+ minute delay at the station. That's not only a variability in traffic
delays but an added variability depending on whether transfers are made or not. Route S already takes
35+ minutes in the mornings from Broomfield PnR. Compare this to 20+ minutes by car. If the proposed

Packet Pg. 197

•

•

•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

inShare
•
•

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

13.C.d

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
27
changes go forward, riders from Broomfield will see travel times increase and as a result more riders,
myself included, will forgo public transit.
It's kinds of surprise me when I first found the route S and could not imagine we can have a such
convenient route which can directly drive me from workplace to Denver. It is really a super convenient
route for all the workers who have been working in Flatirons Parks Area, not only for the people who
are living in Denver, but also for the people who might want to spend a weekend in Denver or need go
to Westminster/other stops between Denver and Boulder after their work.
I could actually go either way on Question 5. If transferring to the 206 would get me to work in around
the same amount of time that taking the S does now, then I would continue to use public transit to get
to work. If it is longer, or if I have to spend a long time waiting for the 206 after getting off the bus that I
would be taking to Boulder instead of the S, then I would not. I'm erring on the side of "Yes" because
using public transit is important to me.
The S bus route is essential to my daily commute. I love that I do not have to transfer and that the S
bus provides a direct ride from Union Station. I think RTD has done an amazing job encouraging
regional commuters to use public transportation as their primary mode of transportation. Please do not
discourage the use of RTD regional bus lines by forcing commuters to transfer. Transferring is
especially difficult since we do not have access to real time bus location data.
The 206 is the least dependable bus ever. I could ride the BV to the 206 but the 206 is pretty
consistently awful.. Riding the S, especially on snowy days makes my life very easy as I don't have to
worry about how late a bus will be to work. Just get on and there it is.
While I understand that I can transfer to the 206 from one of the other regional buses and still get to the
part of town where I work, I've always found transferring incredibly unreliable, especially in the case of
bad weather. I need to be consistent about when I arrive at work and transferring makes that nearly
impossible. Too many times have a bus arrived too late to catch a transfer, no matter how many
promises RTD has made to improve reliability.
There may not be that many S routes throughout the day, but there are certainly those who depend on
it to get to work. Getting rid of the route is like saying that the Flatirons Business Park is not important.
The S line is important to many employees at our company and needs to stay!
Do not stop S route
Yes, I WOULD keep using transit, but I believe that extra step will make my mornings and evenings
more complicated than it needs to be. The S Bus is really nice because it allows me a direct trip to
Boulder without taking extra time to transfer.
The S Route is the perfect bus for me, when my car isn't working or when I don't feel safe driving. It is
indespensible.
I would prefer a shorter trip and it would be great if the bus did not go through the 28th street and
instead just took Foothills up to north east Boulder which is where most of the business circle is.
Thanks
Please keep this route as is!
This is very upsetting that this route could potentially change because with inclement weather, it makes
bus transfers very difficult during the wintertime.
There needs to be a route to Flatirons park from Gunbarrel...the normal 205 route makes it quite a long
bus ride to get to a place that's only 10 minutes away.
The best part about the S bus is that it takes LESS time than going to DT Boulder and it drops me off
outside work without me having to stress out about a whole bunch of transfers!
The extra time to switch between buses means I will have to leave home over 20-30 minutes earlier
each day and then get home 20-30 minutes later each day. I would just start driving to save myself that
lost time.

63 responses
51 days (March 09, 2015 - now)

Packet Pg. 198

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
28
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 199

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
29
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 200

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
30
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 201

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

31
Boulder Junction Station

Existing
Residential: 3,666 units
Commercial: 8.3 million sq ft

Existing
Residential: 948 units
Commercial: 5.7 million sq ft

Zoned (additional)
Residential: 388 units
Commercial: 1.5 million sq ft

CU East Campus/Hospital

TO LONGMONT

BOULDER

Existing
Residential: 1,015 units
Commercial: 3.2 million sq ft

Foothills Pkwy

Downtown Boulder

Existing Zoned Land Uses Within
1/2 Mile of US 36 BRT or Northwest
Rail Stations

Zoned (additional)
Residential: 2,146 units
Commercial: 3.4 million sq ft

Downtown Louisville Station
Boulder Junction

Existing
Residential: 866 units
Commercial: 876,000 sq ft

Downtown
Boulder Transit
Center
CU East
Campus/Hospital

Zoned (additional)
Residential: 211 units
Commercial: 745,000 sq ft

LOUISVILLE
Table Mesa
Station

Table Mesa Station
Existing
Residential: 2,361 units
Commercial: 2.8 million sq ft

AY
KW
AR
P
T
ES
W
TH
OR

Downtown Louisville

36

N

McCaslin
Station

BROOMFIELD

SUPERIOR

Zoned (additional)
Residential: 176 units
Commercial: 162,000 sq ft

Broomﬁeld Station/Arista
Existing
Residential: 1,996 units
Office: 1.6 million sq ft

Flatiron
Station

Zoned (additional)
Residential: 1,269 units
Office: 3.9 million sq ft

Broomﬁeld
Station

Superior Town Center/
McCaslin Station

Zoned (additional)
Residential: 684 units
Commercial: 824,000 sq ft

Church Ranch
Station

Existing
Residential: 230 units
Commercial: 717,000 sq ft
Zoned (additional)
Residential: 500 units
Office: 200,000 sq ft
Retail: 200,000 sf t

Flatiron Station

Sheridan Station

Existing
Retail: 1.6 million sq ft
Office: 574,000 sq ft
Hotel: 275,00 sq ft
Zoned (additional)
Residential: 75 units
Office: 191,000 sq ft
Hotel: 90,000 sf ft

Sheridan
Station

Existing
Residential: 1,258 units
Retail/Entertainment 1 million sq ft
Office: 1.5 to 2 million sq ft

25

Zoned (additional)
Residential: 800 units

Westminster
Station

WESTMINSTER

Legend
Bus Rapid Transit

Commuter Rail Station

Regional Rail

Bus Rapid Transit Station

Existing
Residential: 138 units
Commercial: 1.2 million sq ft
Zoned (additional)
Residential: 450 units

N
DENVER

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

13.C.d

Packet Pg. 202

Funded Regional Rail

Church Ranch Station

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

32

13.C.d

I have now previously written to the RTD concerning the services changes on the Northwest US
36 corridor twice (this letter, the same, being my third addressed to the RTD) and have yet to see
any meaningful change which would enhance mine, or anyone else’s, public transportation
experience using the RTD’s taxpayer funded services. I, along with nearly all other commuters
in the Northwest corridor, are being completely and as disrespectfully as possible ignored by the
RTD and its board of amateur politicians (most of whom I assume have ambitions of someday
running for state senate). No effort have been made by the recently appointed interim General
Manager to reverse the damage caused by his predecessor which has caused the FasTracks
project to be 30 years behind schedule. Instead of building the commuter rail line which was
approved by taxpayers back in 2004, the taxpayers of the Northwest corridor have instead been
forced to subsidize RTD patronage in other (more wealthy) parts of the Denver metropolitan
area. There has also been the added distraction of the endless construction project that is US36
which will result, not in a commuter rail line, but in a new express bus route, which is simply a
rebranding of the previous system. The previous General Manager, Mr. Washington, in his oped in the Denver Post, shamefully claimed that the new express bus service (“BRT or whatever it
actually is”) was not instead of the rail line, but “in addition” to the rail line which the taxpayers
have already paid for. Despite, this blatant misrepresentation of the facts, the RTD has not even
begun construction on the promised and paid for Northwest Rail Line and instead a replacement
express bus service has been forced on to the taxpayers. I honestly would not mind it if a True
bus rapid transit system was built as a supplement to the commuter rail line, but this new express
bus service doesn’t even come to close to an actual bus rapid transit system. Based on the IDTP
(Institute for Transportation and Development Policy) BRT Standard, for a system to be defined
as BRT it must 1) have a dedicated bus-way, which is ideally aligned in the center of the road, 2)
have dedicate right of way through the use of delineators, bollards, or colorized pavement, 3) offboard fare collection, either through a barrier controlled system or by a proof-of-payment
system, 4) and platform level boarding, which would reduce boarding and alighting times. The
US 36 BRT (or whatever it actually is) has literally none of the defining features of an actual bus
rapid transit system. There is(are) no dedicated bus-only lane(s) which are center aligned;
instead there is a toll lane, which will be shared by motorists. The new buses will not have
dedicated right of way and will be forced to share the road with other vehicles. There will not be

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

To Whom It May Concern:

Packet Pg. 203

33

any off-board fare collection system, such as fare-gates or off-board conductors. There will be
no platform-level boarding, but instead the buses will remain exactly as they already are. The
IDTP has already come out requesting that the RTD stop referring to the new express bus service
on US 36 as “BRT” as it most obviously is not anything even approaching an actual bus rapid
transit system (http://www.denverpost.com/news/ci_27392678/u-s-36-bus-transit-plan-is-not). It
would be wise of the new General Manager to stop referring to the new express bus routes as
“BRT”.
Concerning the new fares for the new enhanced express bus routes: I recently read that the fare
for the journey between Union Station and Westminster Center would be considered a “local”
fare and would cost less than the journey from Union Station to any of the other stops along the
US 36 corridor; I would go further and demand that the fare for the entirety of this new express
bus route be completely free for all passengers, until, and only if, the Northwest Rail Line is
actually completed all the way to Longmont as was approved by and paid for by taxpayers in
2004. The money intended for the construction of the Northwest Rail Line has already been
diverted to both the new express bus service and other RTD projects in the more wealthy parts of
the metro area. There is no reason for anyone to any fares for this new bus service, until they
have the option to choose between rail and bus.
Also concerning the new fare system: I find it weird that SMART cards (which should be their
name; there should be no difference between college passes and eco passes) should not be
available to anyone and everyone who wants one. Paying with coins and paper money while
boarding (and or alighting #facepalm) slows down to whole process immensely. It takes half a
second to scan a card at a fare-gate outside of the bus even before boarding, while it can take
several minutes, sometimes, to fumble with coins and cash and for the driver to determine the
proper fare and whether or not the passenger wanted or even needed a transfer. It’s the 21st
century, not the 1950s.
Concerning “stay right” signs on escalators: what is the harm in putting up
“stay right” signs on the escalators at Union Station? Staying on the right
side of an escalator is basic etiquette which many, if not most, people in
Denver are completely unaware of.
(http://www.examiner.com/article/escalator-etiquette) The people of
Denver are so poorly educated about public transportation that a harmless
little sign with the words “stay right” can do nothing but good things.
In your last letter to me, I received no response concerning my suggestion that waiting areas at
the Union State bus terminal be more explicitly defined, as to avoid confusion, especially during
busy times. Nor did I receive any response concerning the existence of turnstiles at the Sports
Authority at Mile High light rail station, but the notable lack of turnstiles at any other light rail
station.

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 204

34

All this being said, I would be perfectly fine with leaving things the exactly the way they
currently are if the buses actually showed up on time, every time. There is absolutely no excuse
for any bus or train to ever arrive or depart at any other times than the scheduled times. There is
no excuse for buses arriving early, nor is there an excuse for busses arriving late. I am a regular
rider on the BV and BF routes, as previously stated, and routinely experience late busses. The
eastbound BV is supposed to depart from the Church Ranch stop precisely at 11:33, not at 11:38
nor at 11:45 nor at 12:00 nor at any other time other than 11:33.
In conclusion, I would once again like to voice my support for Districts J, O and I leaving the
RTD as to more respectfully accommodate the taxpayers of those areas. There is no reason to
keep paying for a train that will never be built.
I, obviously, do not expect any changes to come about as a result of mine (and thousands of
other’s) complaints concerning the absolute lack of respect which has been given the residents of
the North West Corridor, but I hope that at least someone recognizes the extreme discontent
concerning RTD and their shameful lack of services.
Ryan Cruz

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 205

35

Better Boulder Comments on US 36 BRT Service Plan
While we recognize and appreciate the hard work that RTD staff have engaged in to
develop the draft US 36 BRT service plan, and appreciate many elements of the plan,
we believe that additional service is needed in order to make best use of the new
managed lanes on US 36 and adequately serve the transit oriented development at
Boulder Junction.
The context:

US36 BRT needs to get started off on the right foot. This service both needs to be
successful, and needs to be perceived as successful by the public, elected officials,
and key private sector stakeholders. This is important to RTD and the region as a
whole, for several reasons:

Since NW Rail will not be delivered to the NW area, at least not in any short to
medium time frame, US 36 BRT is the only Fastracks service which will directly
serve most NW area communities. Having a very positive rollout of BRT and broad
stakeholder support will be important to public understanding that the NW area is
getting a high quality transit service. If, instead, the rollout of BRT is marred by
complaints about too low a level of service, this will only feed perceptions of
regional inequity.

BRT is important to RTD’s future. There are already two additional BRT lines in the
adopted fiscally constrained2040 RTP (SH 119 and Colfax), other lines identified in
the NAMs study, the SH 7 BRT study is moving forward, and RTD will be receiving
DRCOG funds for a regional BRT study. But public understanding of BRT is very low.
Just as it was critical for RTD to do a great job developing the first light rail line two
decades ago, to show people what light rail could mean in the Denver region, it is
similarly critical that RTD to a great job developing the first BRT line. The goal
should be for stakeholders, users, and the general public to love BRT the way people
embraced LRT. It is worth spending a little more money to achieve this.

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

For Boulder, it is important both to maintain great service along the Broadway
corridor and to significantly improve service to the Boulder Junction area. Boulder
has planned major transit oriented housing and employment growth in this area.

Packet Pg. 206

36

RTD is a partner in Depot Square, Boulder Junction has already begun to develop,
with the addition of the Depot Square apartments, Solana Apartments, Hyatt Place
Hotel and Nickel Flat apartments. A new Google campus with up to 1,500
employees has been approved, and plans are moving forward for hundreds of
thousands of square feet of additional mixed-use developments within a half mile
radius.
Specific Suggestions:

Maintaining great service on Broadway:
While the proposed service plan does add significant all stop service, it cuts back on
express service during some peak hours, and eliminates mid day express service.
This is problematic, and does not make appropriate use of the new managed lanes,
as the all stop service would not use the managed lane. We recommend two
changes:

1) Peak period. The proposed service plan is pretty good for peak period service
between BTC and DUS, with the exception of the 7-8AM eastbound and 5-6
PM westbound periods. During these 2 hours, there is a significant reduction
in express service compared to today, from 8-9 per hour down to 6 per hour.
We would recommend that the existing frequency be maintained during
those hours.
2) Mid-day- the proposed service plan drops the existing once an hour mid-day
express service, while increasing local service from 2 to 4 trips per hour. We
recommend expanding mid-day express service.

Boulder Junction Service:
While the proposed service plan does improve on peak service by making it
bidirectional, it is important that there be some direct service between Boulder
Junction and Union Station, and some mid day and evening service. It is true that
this is a developing area, and does not yet have the densities it will in a few years,
but there has already been significant development at Boulder Junction, in addition
to significant existing housing and employment within a slightly larger radius. We
recommend modest service enhancements, combined with a commitment to
increase service as the area builds out and demand grows.
We recommend:

1) Alternate runs to Union Station and Civic Center during the peak.
2) Add low frequency mid-day and evening service, and some weekend service
-once or twice an hour service mid-day and 6-10 PM on weekdays and hourly
service on weekends.
3) Commit to regularly revisiting service levels in Boulder Junction, including
DIA service, as development proceeds and demand grows. This is consistent
with the 2012 memo from RTD to the US 36 Mayors and Commissioners

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 207

37

which shows minimum service levels increasing over time after opening day,
towards the 2035 levels anticipated in the EIS.
4) Retain direct service to the major employment centers in east Boulder,
similar to the current route S service.

With these changes we believe that we could get to a point where key stakeholders
can come together to focus on working together to make the rollout a success,
rather than arguing about the service plan.
Conatct: info@betterboulder.com

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 208

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
38
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 209

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
39
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 210

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
40
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 211

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
41
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 212

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
42
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 213

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
43
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 214

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
44
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 215

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
45
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 216

46

INFORMATION PACKET
MEMORANDUM
To:

Members of City Council

From:

Jane S. Brautigam, City Manager
Paul J. Fetherston, Deputy City Manager
Tom Carr, City Attorney
Maureen Rait, Executive Director of Public Works
David Driskell, Executive Director of Community Planning and Sustainability
Tracy Winfree, Director of Public Works for Transportation
Molly Winter, Director of Downtown and University Hill Management
Division/Parking Services
David Gehr, Deputy City Attorney
Kathy Haddock, Senior Assistant City Attorney
Jeff Yegian, Acting Manager, Housing Division
Alex May, Transportation Project Manager
Noreen Walsh, Senior Transportation Planner
Elaine McLaughlin, Senior Planner
Trish Jimenez, Senior Financial Manager

Date:

December 3, 2013

Subject: Information Item: Depot Square and Boulder Junction update

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Boulder Junction, specifically the Depot Square development and revitalization project, has been
and will continue to be a unique partnership between developers and the city as a property owner
and regulator. This information item is to provide City Council with updates on the Depot Square
development, status of key public improvements, and other private development activity that is
occurring in the Boulder Junction area.
FISCAL IMPACT
Work on these efforts is included in the city’s work plan and budget.

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 217

47

COMMUNITY SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENTS AND IMPACTS
Economic: The Depot Square project will promote a diverse and sustainable economy by
housing a 150-room hotel; RTD bus transit station; shared parking structure; 71 affordable
residential units; the renovated and reused Boulder Jaycees Depot; and transportation
infrastructure to support the new development with an emphasis on pedestrian, bike and
transit facilities.
Environmental: Along with new transportation infrastructure, an aggressive travel demand
management plan has been required. All new construction must also meet the City of
Boulder’s energy code requirements.
Social: The 71 new residential units within the Depot Square project will provide affordable
housing. The transit-oriented development promotes ease of mobility for a broad range of
people.
BACKGROUND
The Depot Square development includes a mix of transit, permanently affordable housing, hotel
and commercial activities, and a civic plaza south of the Boulder Jaycees Depot. The integrated,
mixed-use development has a number of common facilities that will serve all users of the site,
such as a plaza and public parking garage. This development is located north of Pearl Parkway,
between 30th Street and the BNSF Railroad, and east of the new Junction Place right of way.
Attachment A provides a vicinity map of the project.
In 2001, Boulder Junction began as a City Council initiative to partner with RTD to acquire a
transit anchor in the Boulder Valley Regional Center, years prior to the passage of RTD’s
FasTracks program. A site selection study in 2001 identified the 11.24-acre Pollard Friendly
Motor Company property at 30th Street and Pearl Parkway as the preferred location for the transit
facility and council directed staff to negotiate the purchase. In 2004, council approved the
purchase of the site using housing and transportation funds. This purchase came with the
expressed purpose of designing and constructing a “transit-oriented development” that would be
located near high-frequency transit service and provide a mix of housing types, including a
“significant level” of affordable housing. Of the approximately eight acres of land originally
purchased by the city, 5.5 acres were leased to Pollard Friendly Motor Company until October
2014. RTD purchased the remaining 3.2 acres of the site.
On Nov. 8, 2011, council approved a motion granting the city manager authority to enter into a
development agreement and lease for the city-owned Boulder Jaycees Depot, and the
conveyance of property into the proposed condominium association at Depot Square. On Feb.
21, 2012, council received an update on the Boulder Junction Phase I Implementation Plan and
the city’s proposed financing mechanisms for the Boulder Junction Access General Improvement
District’s portion of the parking garage and the affordable housing at Depot Square. On April 17,
2012, council approved a motion granting the city manager authority to approve and execute a
cooperation agreement with the Boulder Junction Access General Improvement District-Parking
(BJAD-P). Also on April 17, 2012, council approved a motion to authorize the city manager as
ex officio general manager of the BJAD-P to approve and execute all documents necessary to
purchase 100 parking spaces in the parking structure.

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

STATUS UPDATES
Packet Pg. 218

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

48

13.C.d

Depot Square will be a mixed-use project that includes a full-service underground RTD bus
facility, a 71-unit affordable housing project, a hotel, structured public parking for the Boulder
Junction Access General Improvement District, and accessory parking for the housing, RTD,
hotel, and Boulder Jaycees Depot uses. Since the Planning Board approved this project in
October 2011, the various development entities have continued to work together to get the
project under construction. There were a great number of agreements necessary to create the
public-private partnership for the Depot Square development.
A series of closings for the project was completed on July 26, 2013. The public parties included
the City of Boulder, RTD and the Boulder Junction Access General Improvement District. The
private parties include Pedersen Development; 3001 Pearl, LLC; Hyatt Hotels; Adolfson and
Peterson Construction; and Great Western Bank. There were 40 documents executed for these
closings, including deeds, covenants, declarations and loan documents. The closing documents
included some of the highlights listed below.
The city finalized the subdivision plat and agreement approval for the Depot Square
development. This reconfigured the three lots on the property, included the dedication and
construction of Junction Place, and defined developer contributions towards key public
improvements and other projects. Additionally, a number of easements were either released
or granted that were necessary to prepare the site for development.
In addition to the city subdivision process, the portion of the property east of Junction Place
was further subdivided through the use of a Colorado common interest community, often
referred to as a condominium. RTD and the city sold land to the developer, who placed it into
the common interest community. The condominium includes units for the bus facility, hotel,
affordable housing, parking, and the Boulder Jaycees Depot. Each of the units includes
parking units that will be built in the parking garage and wrapped by the affordable housing.
The common interest community declaration and map were executed to provide legal
descriptions for the units and how the various units will be operated together. The
declaration, together with the Depot Square Owners Association Bylaws deal, established the
relationship among the unit owners in terms of operation and maintenance of the various
units and the common areas.
Immediately upon creation of the condominium units, the RTD Unit bus facility and
associated parking was conveyed to RTD, the Depot Unit and associated parking was
conveyed to the city, and the BJAD-P Parking Unit was conveyed to the city for BJAD-P.
As a result of those conveyances, RTD, the city and BJAD-P are part of the Depot Square
Owners Association.
The unit owners Association also needed to be created. The Depot Square Owners
Association is a nonprofit corporation that is responsible for taking care of the common
elements. It also includes the governance requirements for how decisions are made with
regard to the common interest community including the plaza area. Members of the board
include representatives of the unit owners. The association documents define rules related to

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Depot Square Closings

Packet Pg. 219

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

49

13.C.d

There is a parking purchase agreement and associated loan documents, the Boulder Junction
Access General Improvement District agreed to purchase a parking unit within the parking
garage over time. Also, to guarantee this arrangement, there is a cooperation agreement
between the city and the general improvement district where the city agrees to make up the
difference between revenues and purchase obligations, to be repaid by the general
improvement district in later years as revenues increase and stabilize.
A parking management agreement for Depot Square describes how the parking garage will
be jointly used by the various unit owners. It follows a set of principles establishing that, to
the maximum extent possible, all parking should be shared, unbundled and managed (feebased). The owners association will determine the entity that will be primarily responsible for
operating and maintaining the garage. The intent of the agreement is to create a seamless
parking management system that will serve the needs of the public and all of the unit owners.
Public paid parking will be offered by BJAD-P for the spaces it owns, as well as any other
spaces that other unit owners determine to pool for public parking.
A document memorializing the amendment to the Pollard Friendly Motor Company lease
was finalized in early February 2013 and later recorded. Due to Pollard Friendly Motor
Company's cooperation, a significant amount of land was released from the Pollard Friendly
Motor Company leasehold area (originally 5.5 acres, amended to 4.3 acres) that will allow
some of the redevelopment efforts associated with the Depot Square development and several
key public improvements (the Pearl Parkway multiway boulevard, Junction Place bridge at
Goose Creek, and pocket park grading/path) to occur early and concurrent with the
development of the east side of the property.
Part of the redevelopment effort is to put the Boulder Jaycees Depot to a beneficial use.
There is an agreement with Pedersen Development to rehabilitate the Boulder Jaycees Depot
building in exchange for the ability to sublet the building to an operator such as a restaurant.
The City of Boulder has already approved the alteration certificate for the renovations and
the work is expected to be completed in compliance with all city historic preservation
guidelines.
There are also numerous documents related to the creation of permanently affordable rental
housing on the property. The city has pledged $5.4 million of affordable housing funds to be
used to construct 71 permanently affordable units on the property. In order to implement that
objective, the city entered into an affordable housing agreement with 3001 Pearl, LLC, the
developer, and provided the permanent affordability housing covenant recorded at closing.
There are also a number of financial agreements such as a promissory note and deed of trust.
At the closing, the city paid the developer the first payment of the $5.4 million for
predevelopment activities associated with the affordable housing portion of the project.
Progress payments will be made during the course of construction of the affordable housing
portion of the development.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

conduct of board meetings, voting standards, rules related to officers and employees, and
other organizational details.

Finally, there are a number of deeds and instruments associated with ensuring that all of the
associated land transactions have been completed.
Packet Pg. 220

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

50

13.C.d

Depot Square Construction Status
Adolfson and Peterson Construction is under contract to construct the RTD bus facility, the
parking garage, multifamily housing, and site improvements, including Junction Place. A rightof-way and grading permit was issued for this project in late July 2013. Construction of the
dewatering system at the RTD bus facility began on Aug. 5, 2013, and excavation for the bus
facility and site grading started on Aug. 26, 2013. Exporting excavated materials will continue
into early November 2013, and foundation construction is anticipated to immediately follow
once the bus facility building permit is issued. Utility, site work, and above-ground structure
work will proceed starting in approximately May 2014, following completion of the below-grade
portions of the bus facility. Other building permits for the Depot Square project are in the final
stages of the review process.
As part of the Depot Square project, a Hyatt Place hotel is being constructed by Milender White
Construction Company. Foundation work for the hotel is anticipated to begin in early November
2013.
During the September 2013 flooding, the excavation that had been initiated for the construction
of the bus box filled with floodwaters. Combined with elevated groundwater levels and related
dewatering system issues, this caused a three week delay in construction activity. The entire
Depot Square project has an anticipated completion date of early 2015.
Pollard Lease
When the city purchased the Pollard Friendly Motor Company property on the northeast corner
of 30th Street and Pearl Parkway in October 2004, the city leased a portion of the property back
to Pollard Friendly Motor Company through Oct. 30, 2014. The term may be extended for two
years in the event that Pollard Friendly Motor Company decides to exercise an option to
purchase a 6.6-acre parcel of land attached to the Municipal Service Center (often called the
Yards) that has frontage on Pearl Parkway. The city has contractual obligations to have the
Pollard Friendly Motor Company property prepared for development by the end of the 10-year
leasehold period.
The lease agreement between the city and Pollard Friendly Motor Company was amended in
February 2013. It reduced the size of the Pollard Friendly Motor Company leasehold area from
5.5 acres to 4.3 acres to allow for the construction of Junction Place and several key public
improvements, including the Pearl Parkway multiway boulevard, the Junction Place bridge at
Goose Creek, and rough grading and path improvements in the future pocket park. It also
formalized boundaries for some previous work that had been completed to construct a path ramp
from the sidewalk on 30th Street down to the Goose Creek bike path.

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

The closing documents are available for council and public review in the City of Boulder
Records Archive at bouldercolorado.gov/central-records/document-archive.

Pollard Friendly Motor Company has not yet exercised the option to purchase the Yards
subdivision parcel east of the Pearl Parkway auto dealerships. Representatives of Pollard
Friendly Motor Company have been in discussions with city planning staff to explore options

Packet Pg. 221

51

associated with relocating to that property, as was anticipated in the lease agreement for the 30th
Street and Pearl Parkway property and option agreement to purchase the 6.6-acre parcel of land
at the city Yards. During the next year, staff expects to work collaboratively with Pollard
Friendly Motor Company as it prepares the Yards parcel for sale, as contemplated in the
agreements that were entered into as part of the purchase of the Pollard Friendly Motor Company
property at 30th Street and Pearl Parkway. Staff will provide future updates to council as these
discussions continue to explore options for the future use and development (or sale) of the cityowned site.
Access General Improvement Districts – Parking and Travel Demand Management (TDM)
To realize the goals of the Transit Village Area Plan and create a transit-oriented development,
two general improvement taxing districts were created in 2010: a parking district and a travel
demand management (TDM) district. They were named the Boulder Junction Access General
Improvement District-Parking (BJAD-P) and Boulder Junction Access General Improvement
District-TDM (BJAD-TDM). Currently, there are two major projects under construction in the
districts, a multi-building apartment complex at 3100 Pearl and the Depot Square project. 3100
Pearl is a 319-unit rental project developed by MKS Residential, LLC and built by its
construction company, Reylenn Construction Inc.
At the beginning of 2014, the BJAD-TDM will be issuing Eco Passes and subsidized bike- and
car-share memberships to residents of 3100 Pearl. A payment in lieu of taxes (PILOT) agreement
defines how the owners of the properties will pay for the initial TDM programs prior to the tax
collection, and the first payment is due as a condition of the city’s issuance of a certificate of
occupancy. The Depot Square project is scheduled for completion in early 2015, including a
parking garage that is a public-private partnership between the developer, RTD, the city and
BJAD-P.
Key Public Improvements
There are a number of key public improvements under construction, or soon to be under
construction, in the Boulder Junction area. The status of the projects is listed below.
South Side of the Pearl Parkway Multiway Boulevard (30th Street to BNSF Railroad) –
This 2011 Capital Improvement Bond-funded project is constructing the multimodal
streetscape improvements on the south side of Pearl Parkway from 30th Street to the
Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) railroad. Improvements between 30th Street and
Junction Place were completed and opened to the public on Oct. 28, 2013.
Construction on the south side of the Pearl Parkway multiway boulevard was minimally
affected by the September 2013 flooding. The precipitation forced a temporary work
shutdown between Sept. 9 and 15.

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

The new traffic signal at Pearl Parkway and Junction Place is complete and anticipated to be
operational in mid-to-late November 2013, in conjunction with tenant occupation of the
western building of the 3100 Pearl apartments. Improvements between Junction Place and
the railroad tracks will be completed by the spring of 2014 to coordinate with the completion
of the remaining portions of the private development at 3100 Pearl.
Packet Pg. 222

52

Junction Place Bridge at Goose Creek – This bond-funded project will construct a new
bridge linking Junction Place on the north and south sides of Goose Creek, as well as
complete area path connections to the Goose Creek path. Construction is expected to begin in
early November 2013 and be completed in the fall of 2014.
North Side of the Pearl Parkway Multiway Boulevard and Multi-use Path Project (30th
Street to Foothills Parkway) - This federal grant-funded project will complete the north half
of the multiway boulevard from 30th Street to the BNSF railroad and a multi-use path from
the railroad to Foothills Parkway. Extensive waterline, sanitary sewer and major drainageway
improvements are included in the project, including some to facilitate the development of
Depot Square and future Boulder Junction redevelopments. Construction is expected to begin
in mid-to-late November 2013 and be completed in the fall of 2014. Work over late fall and
winter 2013 will focus on utility and major drainageway box culvert construction.
US 36 Managed Lane/Bikeway Project – A design-build project under the oversight of the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) is underway and scheduled to be completed
in two phases. This Eisenhower-era highway overhaul is reconstructing aging bridges and
pavement, improving safety, and adding one managed lane in each direction, as well as a
bikeway. Phase 1 (Pecos to 88th streets) is under construction and scheduled for completion
by the end of 2014. Phase 2 (88th Street to Table Mesa Drive) will go to financial close with a
private concessionaire and construction is scheduled for completion by the end of 2015. The
highest-priority use of the managed lane is Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), which will have two
end-of-line stations in Boulder, one at Depot Square and the other at the Boulder Transit
Center at 14th and Walnut streets. BRT service is scheduled to begin in January 2016.
Other Private Development Activity
There are several other properties within Boulder Junction that are in various stages of the
planning review and development process. The properties are primarily located within the mixed
use (MU-4) and high-density residential (RH-6) zoning districts.
The construction at 3100 Pearl is well underway and completion of the 319-unit apartment
complex in four separate buildings is scheduled for a phased completion, starting in fall 2013 and
continuing through early summer 2014. Located directly across Pearl Parkway from Depot
Square, the property will primarily be residential, with ground floor retail and a fitness facility.
The 5.12-acre site also has below-grade parking and on-site recreational amenities. The project is
completing the first section of the new street, Junction Place, south of Pearl Parkway and also
fronts onto the Pearl Parkway multiway boulevard. The buildings are designed to address the
street with front door access to the units, intended to activate the streetscape and help establish a
pedestrian orientation for the area.
North and west of the proposed Junction Place bridge at Goose Creek, along the northern
planned extension of Junction Place, is a small urban-style apartment building (known as The
Lofts at Boulder Junction) developed by Coburn Development that has received final site review
approval. Proposed as a three-story, 22,850 square-foot building with 16 attached apartment
units and tuck-under parking at the rear of the site, the building is designed to have front doors
that face the street in a zero lot line configuration to help activate this portion of Junction Place.

13.C.d

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

Packet Pg. 223

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36

53

13.C.d

A property located at 3085 Bluff St., west of the former Sutherlands Lumber property and north
of the Steel Yards, completed concept plan review in January 2013 for a 100 percent
permanently affordable residential project. An application for site review has not yet been
received and the developer, Element Properties, is working to assemble financing.
Representatives for the former Sutherlands Lumber property, located at 3390 Valmont Rd. and
within the mixed use (MU-4) zoning district, have submitted a pre-application and discussed
possible redevelopment of that property with a concept plan application submittal forthcoming.
City-owned Site at 30th Street and Pearl Parkway
The city continues to own 5.45 acres total at 30th Street and Pearl Parkway and leases 4.3 acres
of the property to Pollard Friendly Motor Company as described above. The 1.15-acre difference
is a result of the:
Existing multi-use path access ramp from 30th Street to the Goose Creek path;
Proposed pocket park, and related improvements; and
Junction Place easements.
During the July 31, 2012 study session discussions of the Update on Boulder Junction and the
city-owned site at 30th and Pearl streets, City Council indicated an interest in reevaluating the
potential uses of the site in light of the city’s goals for Boulder Junction and the realization of
nearby development projects. Staff will propose a planning process for the site once the timing of
its availability for development is more concrete.
NEXT STEPS
Staff will continue to provide necessary updates to City Council in 2014 and beyond.
ATTACHMENTS
A – Vicinity Map

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Technical document and building permit reviews are anticipated in late 2013/early 2014. The
city has received no formal submittals for the remaining two undeveloped Steel Yards lots across
from this site, abutting the east side of Junction Place.

Packet Pg. 224

Attachment: Attch D Summary of Petitions and Letters US 36 (2412 : US 36 BRT Service Plan - January 2016)

Attachment D - Summary of Petitions and Letters - US 36
54
13.C.d

Packet Pg. 225

13.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: June 30, 2015

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

GM

Date:

June 30, 2015

Subject:

Resolution No. _________, Series of 2015
Related to the Issuance of Certificates of
Participation, Series 2015A

CFO/AGM,

Finance

&

Board Meeting Date: July 28, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional
Transportation District Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A.
BACKGROUND
This action item discusses the financing of buses, light rail vehicles and related major spare components
as contemplated in the 2015 RTD amended budget and Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). The transaction
complies with RTD’s Fiscal Policy and is a continuation of the financing of the vehicle fleet update that
began in 2013.
DISCUSSION
The Resolution provides for financing of up to $230,000,000 for vehicles and related equipment as
anticipated to be financed in the SBP. Vehicles included in this financing include:

Vehicle Type
40’ Transit Buses
60’ Articulated Buses
ADA Cutaway Vans
Mall Shuttles
Light Rail Vehicle

Quantity

Manufacturer

179
18
3
7
29

Gillig
New Flyer
TBD
TBD
TBD

Delivery of these vehicles is expected to be spread over the next 3 years. Equipment being funded by
this transaction includes major spare components for the buses and light rail vehicles listed above.

The Chief Financial Officer has taken preliminary actions to arrange for the issuance and sale of the
certificates, including assembling financial information related to the District and drafting a preliminary
official statement, continuing disclosure agreement, certificate purchase agreement and the Resolution

Packet Pg. 226

13.D

for issuance of the certificates. The CFO has also hosted meetings with Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s
and Fitch to start the process of obtaining a credit rating for the certificates. The Board is being
requested, through the Resolution to authorize the issuance, to establish the parameters and to approve
agreements required in connection with the issuance of the certificates.
Drafts of documents referenced in the Certificate Resolution including the Indenture, Continuing
Disclosure Agreement, Preliminary Official Statement and Certificate Purchase Agreement are available
for review in the Board Office.
RTD is receiving the advice of First Southwest Company, as independent financial advisors and Butler
Snow as Bond Counsel in regard to the Certificates. The Certificates will be underwritten by a team
including Wells Fargo(50%), Stifel Nicolaus(22%), Bank of America, Merrill Lynch(10%), US
Bancorp(10%) and Harvestons Securities(8%).
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Costs associated with the financing are considered “costs of issuance” and will be funded out of
proceeds. These costs include underwriter, rating agency, financial advisory, attorney and printing fees.
ALTERNATIVES
Authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of 2015,
authorizing the issuance of the District’s Tax-Exempt Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A. This is
the recommended action.
Do not authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of 2015,
authorizing the issuance of the District’s Tax-Exempt Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A. This is
not the recommended action as it would not provide funding for the vehicle acquisitions previously
anticipated by the District.
ATTACHMENTS:


I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
AWAY:

(DOC)

PASSED [13 TO 1]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten
Gary Lasater

Prepared by:
Heather Copp, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 227

13.D

Packet Pg. 228

AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY BY THE
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT OF A LEASE
PURCHASE AGREEMENT AND RELATED DOCUMENTS.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District in the City and County of
Broomfield, the City and County of Denver and the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of Colorado (the “District”) was created by the General
Assembly of the State of Colorado in 1969 by Chapter 231, Laws of Colorado 1969, which is
currently codified as Sections 32-9-101 through 32-9-164, inclusive, of the Colorado Revised
Statutes (the “Act”) and the District’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) and officers from time to
time, including the present incumbents, have been duly chosen and qualified; and
WHEREAS, the District is authorized by the Act to develop, maintain and operate
a mass transportation system (the “System”) and in connection therewith to purchase or
otherwise acquire real and personal property; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined and hereby determines that it is in the best
interest of the District to acquire certain equipment, vans, buses and light rail vehicles to be used
in the System (the “2015A Acquisition Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined and hereby determines that it is in the best
interests of the District and its inhabitants that the Board authorize the District to enter into an
annually renewable Lease Purchase Agreement (the “Lease”) with RTD Asset Acquisition
Authority, Inc. (the “Corporation”) pursuant to which the District will lease from the Corporation
all of the buses and light rail vehicles that comprise a portion of the 2015A Acquisition Project,
as set forth in Exhibit A attached thereto, as it may be amended from time to time (collectively,
the “2015A Leased Property”) and apply a portion of the moneys received in connection with the
execution of the Lease, together with other available moneys of the District, to finance the
2015A Acquisition Project; and
WHEREAS, unless otherwise determined by the General Manager or Interim
General Manager of the District (collectively, the “General Manager”), the equipment and vans
that will be acquired as a portion of the 2015A Acquisition Project will be titled in the name of
the District, will not be subject to the Lease and will not constitute 2015A Leased Property
thereunder; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Lease, and subject to the right of the District to not
renew the Lease and other limitations as therein provided, the District will pay certain Base
Rentals and Additional Rentals (as such terms are defined in the Lease) in consideration for the
right of the District to use the 2015A Leased Property; and
WHEREAS, the District’s obligation under the Lease to pay Base Rentals and
Additional Rentals shall be from year to year only, shall constitute currently appropriated
expenditures of the District, and shall not constitute a general obligation or other indebtedness of
the District or multiple fiscal year direct or indirect debt or other financial obligation of the

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2015

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

Packet Pg. 229

WHEREAS, the Corporation will enter into an Indenture of Trust (the
“Indenture”) with UMB Bank, n.a., as trustee (the “Trustee”) pursuant to which the Corporation
will assign (with certain exceptions) all of its rights, title and interest in, to and under the Lease
to the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Indenture, there are being executed and delivered
certain “Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A” (collectively, the “2015A Certificates”), and
the net proceeds from the sale of the 2015A Certificates will be disbursed by the Trustee, at the
direction of the District as agent for the Corporation, to finance the 2015A Acquisition Project;
and
WHEREAS, the 2015A Certificates shall evidence assignments of proportionate
interests in the rights to receive Lease Revenues (as defined in the Lease), shall be payable solely
from the sources provided in the Lease, and shall not constitute a general obligation or other
indebtedness of the District or multiple fiscal year direct or indirect debt or other financial
obligation whatsoever or a mandatory payment obligation of the District in any Fiscal Year
beyond the then current Fiscal Year and shall not directly or indirectly obligate the District to
make any payments beyond those appropriated for any Fiscal Year during which the Lease shall
be in effect; and
WHEREAS, there has been presented to the Board and are on file at the District
offices the following: (i) the proposed form of the Lease; (ii) the proposed form of the
Indenture; (iii) the proposed form of the Continuing Disclosure Agreement (the “Continuing
Disclosure Agreement”) between the District and Digital Assurance Certification, L.L.C., as
Dissemination Agent; (iv) the Preliminary Official Statement (the “Preliminary Official
Statement”) prepared in connection with the sale of the 2015A Certificates; and (v) the proposed
form of the Certificate Purchase Agreement (the “Certificate Purchase Agreement”) among the
District, the Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as representative of the
underwriters for the 2015A Certificates (the “Underwriters”); and
WHEREAS, Section 11-57-204 of the Supplemental Public Securities Act,
constituting Title 11, Article 57, Part 2, Colorado Revised Statutes (the “Supplemental Act”),
provides that a public entity, including the District, may elect in an act of issuance to apply all or
any of the provisions of the Supplemental Act; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, happen and
be performed precedent to and in connection with the authorization of the Lease exist, have
happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and manner as required by law,
it is appropriate for the Board to adopt this Resolution at this time.

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

District whatsoever or a mandatory charge or requirement against the District in any Fiscal Year
(as defined in the Lease) beyond the then current Fiscal Year; and

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

-2Packet Pg. 230

Section 1.
Ratification and Approval of Prior Actions. All action heretofore
taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this Resolution) by the Board or the officers or
agents of the Board or the District relating to the financing of the 2015A Acquisition Project, the
execution and delivery of the Lease and related documents and the preparation of the Preliminary
Official Statement is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed. The designation of the
Preliminary Official Statement by the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer of the
District (the “Chief Financial Officer”) as “final” for purposes of Rule 15c2-12 (the “Rule”) of
the Securities and Exchange Commission, except for omissions permitted by the Rule, is hereby
authorized, approved and confirmed.
Section 2.
Finding of Best Interests; Approval. The Board hereby finds and
determines, pursuant to the Constitution, the laws of the State of Colorado and the Act, that
financing the 2015A Acquisition Project under the terms and provisions set forth in the Lease
and the Indenture and in accordance with the parameters set forth in this Resolution, is
necessary, convenient and in furtherance of the District’s purposes and is in the best interests of
the inhabitants of the District and the Board hereby authorizes and approves the same.
Section 3.
Supplemental Act; Parameters. The Board hereby elects to apply
all of the Supplemental Act to the Lease and in connection therewith delegates to each of the
General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer the independent authority to make any
determination delegable pursuant to Section 11-57-205(1)(a-i), Colorado Revised Statutes, to
accept and sign a Certificate Purchase Agreement for the 2015A Certificates, to make
determinations in relation to the Lease, and to execute a sale certificate for the Lease (the “Sale
Certificate”) setting forth such determinations, without any requirement that the Board approve
such determinations, including without limitation, the term of the Lease and the rental amounts
to be paid by the District pursuant to the Lease, subject to the following parameters and
restrictions: (a) the aggregate principal amount of the Base Rentals payable by the District
pursuant to the Leases shall not exceed $230,000,000; (b) the maximum aggregate annual
amount of Base Rentals payable by the District pursuant to the Lease in any Fiscal Year shall not
exceed $24,510,000; (c) the maximum aggregate total amount of Base Rentals payable by the
District pursuant to the Lease shall not exceed $400,235,000; and (d) the Lease Term for the
Lease shall not extend beyond December 31, 2040.
Pursuant to Section 11-57-205 of the Supplemental Act, the Board hereby
delegates to each of the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer the authority to sign a
Certificate Purchase Agreement for the 2015A Certificates or to accept a binding bid for the
2015A Certificates and to execute any agreement or agreements in connection therewith.
The General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer are hereby independently
authorized to determine if obtaining municipal bond insurance for all or a portion of the 2015A
Certificates is in the best interests of the District, and if so, to select a bond insurer to issue a

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
BROOMFIELD, THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER AND THE COUNTIES OF
ADAMS, ARAPAHOE, BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND WELD, IN THE STATE
OF COLORADO AS FOLLOWS:

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

-3Packet Pg. 231

The delegation set forth in this Section 3 shall be effective for one year following
the date hereof.
Section 4.
Approval of Documents. The Lease, the Continuing Disclosure
Agreement and the Certificate Purchase Agreement in substantially the forms thereof presented
to the Board and filed with the District, are in all respects approved, authorized and confirmed,
but such documents may be completed, corrected or revised as deemed necessary by the parties
thereto in order to carry out the purposes of this Resolution and as the General Manager or Chief
Financial Officer shall approve, the execution thereof being deemed conclusive approval of any
such changes by the District. The Chair of the Board (the “Chair”) is hereby authorized and
directed to execute and deliver the Lease and the Continuing Disclosure Agreement for and on
behalf of the District. The Certificate Purchase Agreement and the Sale Certificate shall be
executed by either the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer as authorized pursuant to
Section 3 hereof.
Section 5.
Approval of Official Statement. The Official Statement, in
substantially the form of the Preliminary Official Statement filed with the District, is in all
respects approved, authorized and confirmed, and the Chair is hereby authorized and directed to
affix his signature to the Official Statement for and on behalf of the District, with such changes
as may be approved by the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer. The distribution by
the Underwriters of the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement to all
interested persons in connection with the sale of the 2015A Certificates is hereby ratified,
approved and confirmed.
Section 6.
Authorization to Execute Collateral Documents. The Secretary or
Assistant Secretary authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed
to attest all signatures and acts of any official of the District in connection with the matters
authorized by this Resolution and to place the seal of the District on any document authorized
and approved by this Resolution. The Chair, the Secretary, the General Manager, the Chief
Financial Officer and other officials of the District are hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver for and on behalf of the District any and all additional certificates, documents and
other papers, and to perform all other acts that they may deem necessary or appropriate in order
to implement and carry out the transactions and other matters authorized by this Resolution. The
approval hereby given to the various documents referred to above includes an approval of such
additional details therein as may be necessary and appropriate for their completion, deletions
therefrom and additions thereto as may be approved by the General Manager or the Chief
Financial Officer prior to the execution of the documents. The execution of any instrument by
the appropriate officers of the District herein authorized shall be conclusive evidence of the
approval by the District of such instrument in accordance with the terms hereof.

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

municipal bond insurance policy, execute a commitment relating to the same and execute any
related documents or agreements required by such commitment. The General Manager or Chief
Financial Officer are hereby independently authorized to determine if obtaining a reserve fund
insurance policy for the 2015A Certificates is in the best interests of the District, and if so, to
select a bond insurer to issue a reserve fund insurance policy for all or any portion of the Reserve
Fund Requirement (as defined in the Indenture) related to the 2015A Certificates and execute
any related documents or agreements required by such commitment.

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

-4Packet Pg. 232

Section 7.
No General Obligation Debt. No provision of this Resolution, the
Lease, the Indenture or the 2015A Certificates shall be construed as creating or constituting a
general obligation or other indebtedness or multiple fiscal year financial obligation of the District
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision, nor a mandatory charge or
requirement against the District in any ensuing fiscal year beyond the then current fiscal year.
The District shall have no obligation to make any payment with respect to the 2015A Certificates
except in connection with the payment of the Base Rentals (as defined in the Lease) and certain
other payments under the Lease, which payments may be terminated by the District in
accordance with the provisions of the Lease. Neither the Lease nor the 2015A Certificates shall
constitute a mandatory charge or requirement of the District in any ensuing fiscal year beyond
the then current fiscal year or constitute or give rise to a general obligation or other indebtedness
or multiple fiscal year financial obligation of the District within the meaning of any
constitutional or statutory debt limitation and shall not constitute a multiple fiscal year direct or
indirect District debt or other financial obligation whatsoever. No provision of the Lease or the
2015A Certificates shall be construed or interpreted as creating an unlawful delegation of
governmental powers nor as a donation by or a lending of the credit of the District within the
meaning of Sections 1 or 2 of Article XI of the Colorado Constitution. Neither the Lease nor the
2015A Certificates shall directly or indirectly obligate the District to make any payments beyond
those budgeted and appropriated for the District’s then current fiscal year.
Section 8.
Reasonableness of Rentals. The Board hereby determines and
declares that the Base Rentals due under the Lease, in the maximum amounts authorized
pursuant to Section 3 hereof, constitute the fair rental value of the 2015A Leased Property and do
not exceed a reasonable amount so as to place the District under an economic compulsion to
renew the Lease or to exercise its option to purchase the 2015A Leased Property pursuant to the
Lease. The Board hereby determines and declares that the period during which the District has
an option to purchase the 2015A Leased Property (i.e., the entire maximum term of the Lease)
does not exceed the useful life of the 2015A Leased Property.
Section 9.
No Recourse against Officers and Agents. Pursuant to Section 1157-209 of the Supplemental Act, if a member of the Board, or any officer or agent of the District
acts in good faith, no civil recourse shall be available against such member, officer, or agent for
payment of the principal, interest or prior redemption premiums on the 2015A Certificates. Such
recourse shall not be available either directly or indirectly through the Board or the District, or
otherwise, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute, rule of law, enforcement of penalty, or
otherwise. By the acceptance of the 2015A Certificates and as a part of the consideration of their
sale or purchase, any person purchasing or selling such certificate specifically waives any such
recourse.
Section 10.
Repealer. All bylaws, orders and resolutions of the District, or
parts thereof, inconsistent with this Resolution or with any of the documents hereby approved are

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

Without further Board approval, the General Manager shall have the authority to
authorize amendments to the Lease relating to (a) the vehicles and equipment that will be
acquired with the proceeds of the 2015A Certificates, (b) the vehicles and equipment that will
comprise the 2015A Leased Property under the Lease, and (c) the amortization and release
schedule set forth in the Lease.

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

-5Packet Pg. 233

hereby repealed to the extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed as
reviving any bylaw, order or resolution of the District, or part thereof, heretofore repealed.
Section 11.
Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, clause or
provision of this Resolution or the documents hereby authorized and approved (other than
provisions as to the payment of Base Rentals by the District during the Lease Term, provisions
for the quiet enjoyment of the 2015A Leased Property by the District during the Lease Term and
provisions for the conveyance of the 2015A Leased Property to the District under the conditions
provided in the Lease) shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity
or unenforceability of such section, subsection, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect
any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution or such documents, the intent being that the
same are severable.

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this July 28, 2015.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By
Chair, Board of Directors
[SEAL]

Attest:

Secretary, Board of Directors

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

Section 12.
Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage and adoption.

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

-6Packet Pg. 234

1.
The foregoing pages are a true and correct copy of a resolution (the
“Resolution”) passed and adopted by the Board at a meeting thereof held on July 28, 2015.
2.
The Resolution was duly moved and seconded and the Resolution was
adopted at the meeting of July 28, 2015, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board as
follows:
Name
Charles L. Sisk, Chair
Lorraine Anderson
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta
Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Paul Daniel Solano
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Yes

No

Abstain

Absent

3.
The members of the Board were present at such meeting constituting a
quorum and voted on the passage of the Resolution as set forth above.
4.
The Resolution was approved and authenticated by the signature of the
Chair of the Board, sealed with the District seal, attested by the Secretary and recorded in the
minutes of the Board.
5.
There are no bylaws, rules or regulations of the Board which might
prohibit the adoption of the Resolution.
6.
Notice of the meeting of July 28, 2015 in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A was posted at 1600 Blake Street within the District, at least twenty-four hours prior to
the meeting in accordance with law.

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

I, the Secretary of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Regional
Transportation District, in the City and County of Broomfield, City and County of Denver and
the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of
Colorado (the “District”), do hereby certify:

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

-7Packet Pg. 235

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

WITNESS my hand and the seal of the District this ____ day of _______, 2015.

(SEAL)
Secretary

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

-8-

Packet Pg. 236

Attachment: I.a....RTD Resolution - 2015 COPs (2413 : Resolution No.

EXHIBIT A

(Attach copy of notice given prior to the July 28, 2015 meeting)

, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of

13.D.a

9

Packet Pg. 237

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 238

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 239

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 240

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 241

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 242

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 243

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 244

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 245

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 007 Authorizing the Execution and Delivery by the RTD of a Lwase Purchase Agreement and Related Documents

13.D.b

Packet Pg. 246

13.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: June 30, 2015

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

GM

Date:

June 30, 2015

Subject:

Authorization to Amend Contract with
NewPush for Expansion of Smart Media
Technology Hosting Service

CFO/AGM,

Finance

&

Board Meeting Date: July 28, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to amend the contract with NewPush to expand
Smart Media Technology (SMT) hosting services to increase the contract not-to-exceed amount by an
additional $1,440,000 to a total contract value of $1,729,500 and extend the period of performance for
the current and additional services for three additional optional years. The additional services are needed
for SMT stored value system security and high availability. Of the $1,440,000 contract value, the
Board of Directors approved $500,000 for these hosting services in March 2015 along with other SMT
items. The remaining $940,000 equates to $333,333 per year for the remaining three years of the
contract that will be funded in the 2016-2021 operating budget.
BACKGROUND
As the SMT program services expand and to offer Stored Value functionality to its riders, a considerable
set of Information Technology (IT) infrastructure is required to be deployed and operational. To provide
what is equivalent to a debit card banking program, this necessitates a highly complex Data Center with
special attention to security, high-availability, communications, continuation of operations / disaster
recovery, etc. As example, the proposed architecture with NewPush includes twenty-one physical and
virtual servers in test and production environments and nine-databases. RTD and Xerox have been
working in concert to clearly define the physical and logical architecture, and other components
necessary for the Stored Value deployment and January 1, 2016 go-live. In parallel with many
competing demands, the provisioning evaluations and actions for hosting have been underway since the
fall of 2014.

More specifically the hosting, systems and subsystems must:
1. Meet Payment Card Industry (PCI) security standards.
2. Provide protected high network security standards because of stored customer information.
3. Provide high availability because if the system were to be down, it would be a major
inconvenience for riders and there would likely be a loss of revenue.
4. Operate with appropriate levels of security, encryption and availability by November 1, 2015 to
be ready for the January 1, 2016 Go-Live launch for Stored Value.

Packet Pg. 247

13.E

DISCUSSION
Three options were considered to provide the necessary technology infrastructure to advance SMT to
offer Stored Value to RTD’s riders. These options included:
1. RTD host at its datacenter
2. Xerox to provide the hosting
3. Current third-party hosting provider (NewPush)
RTD Hosting
Pro:

RTD would have complete control over all aspects of the hosting.
Con:




The current data center has significant power and cooling constraints that prohibit
additional infrastructure.
RTD’s current system will not pass a PCI compliance audit. So, without significant
investment in infrastructure and staff, off-site hosting is necessary.
RTD’s current availability and staffing will not support the desired level of operations.
Providing a system that would meet the needs would be significantly more expensive than
contracting the services to a third party.

Xerox Hosting
Pro:
 Contractually, Xerox was to have hosted the current system.
 Xerox has a series of datacenters offering the necessary services and infrastructure at the service
levels required for stored value.
 The SMT / Stored Value are Xerox proprietary systems. If they hosted, it would eliminate the
potential of operational conflicts or misunderstandings.
Con:
 The hosting called-out in the 2010 contract does not have the desired level of service to provide
the security and availability needed for the system.
 Xerox is likely to be an expensive solution and exceed funds currently budgeted.
 The current contract has federal requirements and it would be difficult to expand the current
contract to include the desired additional services into the future.
 We have worked with Xerox for months on planning the hosting services and do not have a clear
path forward with them.
Third-Party Hosting by NewPush
Pro:
 NewPush currently hosts SMT websites and banking servers under an existing contract that is
proposed for expansion by this Board action.
 NewPush has a positive and cost effective record with RTD in hosting elements of the current
SMT system. NewPush has demonstrated a high level of customer service.
 NewPush’s current services were competitively selected and this is likely the lowest cost, best
value solution.

Packet Pg. 248

13.E




Con:



The current scope of the NewPush contract includes hosting SMT servers, the ticket vending
machine banking server. Therefore, we know that NewPush already has completed a PCI
compliance self-assessment for RTD services.
Hosting with any other hosting vendor would create duplication of costs for providing high
availability connections, firewalls and auditing security of the system.
Having initially planned to do hosting with Xerox, there is insufficient time remaining to
competitively procure alternative hosting services in order to be ready for the January 1, 2016
anticipated go-live.
NewPush has hosting expertise, but not expertise for SMT applications. RTD will be responsible
for managing applications and Xerox will be required to assist with the migration.
The Board funded $500,000 for off-site hosting in March 2015. This is expected to cover
migration of the SMT system and the first year of SMT hosting services through February 2017.
Subsequent annual costs for SMT hosting are estimated to be between $350,000 and $400,000
per year. With full consideration of the options, it is in RTD’s best interest to move forward with
NewPush for off-site hosting services.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact. The funding for 2015 was already approved by the Board of
Directors in March 2015.
Subsequent years will be included in the 2016-2021 Finance and
Administration Department’s Information Technology Division operating budgets.

ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with NewPush in
order to expand off-site hosting services for SMT to provide greater security and availability. This
is the recommended action.
2. Do not authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with
NewPush to expand off-site hosting services for SMT to provide greater security and availability.
This action would result in RTD continuing to host SMT services in house, exposing RTD’s
customers to risk of outages and greater risk of theft of personal information. This is not the
recommended action.
3. Authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Xerox in order
to expand off-site hosting services for SMT to provide greater security and availability. It is likely
that this alternative will not provide the necessary services in time for the scheduled go-live dates
and will require additional funds. This is not the recommended action.

Packet Pg. 249

13.E

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:

PASSED [14 TO 0]
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Gary Lasater

Prepared by:
Heather Copp, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 250

13.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: July 9, 2015

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

July 8, 2015

Board Meeting Date: July 28, 2015

Subject:

Recommendation for Passage of Resolution
Authorizing the General Manager to Execute a
Design Build Contract and other Agreements
for the Southeast Rail Extension

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors pass the attached
resolution authorizing the Chair of the RTD Board of Directors and the General Manager, whether interim
or permanent, or their officers or delegates to execute grant agreements, a two phase design-build
contract, intergovernmental agreements (IGAs), purchase and sale contracts, documents evidencing
property interests, and such other agreements as are necessary or appropriate for the construction of the
Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) and to accept third party contributions and increase the project budget
by such third party contribution amounts to implement third party requested betterments, all according
to the terms set forth in the Resolution.
BACKGROUND
On February 21, 2012 the RTD Board of Directors approved selection of a locally preferred alternative
following an environmental study mandated by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) as a
prerequisite to seeking federal funding for the SERE. The Board authorized RTD to apply to enter into the
federal new starts grant funding process with the goal of a Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) on
August 28, 2012. A Record of Decision (ROD) for the project was issued by the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) on October 17, 2014. FTA has since issued a ROD and has authorized the project
for each phase of development that is a statutory prerequisite to obtaining an FFGA, and the executive
branch of the federal government has included SERE in each report and budget necessary to maintain
FFGA eligibility. RTD anticipates receipt of an FFGA in the first half of 2016.
The Chair and staff members will be required to sign acceptance of the FFGA and other federal grants.
On July 15, 2014 the RTD Board of Directors authorized staff to submit an amendment to the DRCOG
Baseline Report on FasTracks, which contained a listing of projects that would serve as the basis for
inclusion in the 2040 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP). The Southeast Rail Extension was approved to
be included in this list in order to maintain eligibility for and support the RTD intent to seek federal
funding to construct the SERE.
The RTD Board of Directors authorized staff to issue a request for proposals for a design build contract
for construction SERE.
Responses were received from several qualified teams and a team
recommendation is described below.
Throughout the NEPA, funding, and procurement processes RTD staff have been engaged in negotiations
with the City of Lone Tree (Lone Tree), Ridgegate Investments, Inc. (Ridgegate), owner of significant
amounts of needed right of way, and Rampart Range Metropolitan District (RRMD), an additional
property owner, regarding project development.

Packet Pg. 251

13.F

Based on evaluation criteria and processes discussed below RTD staff recommends selection of a
design-build contractor and execution of a two phase contract, the construction phase of which will be
dependent on receipt of an FFGA.
Lone Tree is prepared to contribute funds of $25 million to the project and property interests necessary
for construction and operation on entry into an IGA as more fully described below.
RRMD is prepared to contribute property interests necessary for construction and operation on entry into
an IGA as more fully described below.
Ridgegate is prepared to contribute property interests necessary for construction and operation on entry
into a Purchase and Sale Agreement and supplemental agreements and deeds as more fully described
below.
DISCUSSION
The FFGA
Following completion of NEPA work and selection by the RTD Board of a locally preferred alternative,
RTD requested authority from FTA to enter into the first phase of Project Development which is
Preliminary Engineering. FTA authorized the first phase of Project Development in April 2013. Following
the Board’s authorization to include the project in the DRCOG RTD in July 2014 RTD requested
authorization to enter the Engineering Phase of Project Development in September 2014 which was
granted. The President’s budget for 2016 included the project, indicating that FTA is planning to issue
an FFGA next year. RTD hopes to receive the FFGA in the first half of 2016. The Chair and members of
RTD will be required to execute the FFGA as it is a contract between FTA and RTD. It obligates RTD to
complete the project within a specific time frame, to follow all federal terms and conditions including
Buy America, Davis Bacon Wages, construction of the project defined through the NEPA analysis and to
be responsible for all costs other than the FFGA contribution.
The Design-Build Contract
The Southeast Rail Extension is a 2.3 mile double track extension of light rail from the existing Lincoln
Station to a new end of line station south of Ridgegate Parkway. There will be two additional new
stations as well as three bridge structures.
After completing 65% design using RTD engineering staff, RTD embarked on a two-step procurement
process in November 2014 to select a Design-Build Contractor for the Southeast Rail Extension.
Requests for Qualifications (RFQ) were provided to the contracting community on November 17, 2014.
On January 16, 2015, RTD received 7 Statement of Qualifications (SOQ). Following a two week review
process, RTD shortlisted the following teams to receive an invitation to propose on the project in the
form of Request for Proposals (RFP):
1) Kiewit with Hatch Mott McDonald and Mass Electric
2) Balfour Beatty with Parsons Brinckerhoff
3) Stacy and Witbeck/Herzog Joint Venture with STV and Wadsworth
4) Graham/Kraemer Joint Venture with Stantec
The Request for Proposals were sent to the four teams on February 27, 2015 with the deadline for
proposals set for May 15, 2015. One on one meetings were held with each of the proposing teams
during the proposal period. Additionally RTD received numerous questions from each team as well as
Alternative Technical Concepts (ATC’s). On April 27, 2015, RTD provided final responses to all
questions and ATC’s in the form of a final addendum to the RFP.
On May 15, 2015, RTD received proposals from all four shortlisted teams. RTD staff evaluated and
scored the proposals based on the following four areas:
1) Technical Approach, Technical Innovation and Creativity (35 Points)

Packet Pg. 252

13.F

2) Management Approach, Experience and Approach (10 Points)
3) DBE/SBE/WIN Approach (10 Points)
4) Cost Proposal (45 Points)
In addition to this evaluation, a group of stakeholders also reviewed the proposals and provided their
input in the form of pros and cons.
The evaluation of the Technical, Management, and Cost Proposals were conducted separately. After
review and scoring by each Technical and Management Working Groups, those scores were provided to
a Technical Subcommittee which then prepared a recommendation to the Evaluation Committee which
consisted of members of RTD’s Senior Leadership Team. At the Evaluation Committee Meeting, the
results of the Technical and Management Approach Working Groups were combined with the scoring of
the Cost Proposal Working Group.
The Balfour Beatty/Parson Brinckerhoff team scored the highest with a score of 83.31, rating number
one in Technical, SBE and Cost, and number two in Management. Their price is $139,769,254.00,
which is also the lowest of the proposers.
The following basic components are included in the contract:
1) Lump Sum Contract Price.
2) RTD set a Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) goal of 20% for design and 24% for
construction. The contractor has committed to exceed those goals by an additional .5% each.
The contractor has also presented a plan to include to a voluntary Small Business Enterprise
(SBE) goal of 6%.
3) The Project hiring goals for Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) graduates are as follows:
a. Professional Service – Goal 8.5%: Participants may perform professional services such
as design, quality control, quality assurance, surveying, contract administration,
easement acquisition, and public information duties.
b. Skilled Craft – Goal 13.11%: Participants should perform skilled construction related
activities such as carpentry, masonry, iron worker, equipment operator, mechanic
work, or similar skilled construction work.
4) Davis-Bacon and Buy America Requirements – The contractor will be required to use DavisBacon wage rates and comply with Buy America Requirements.
The Lone Tree IGA
Lone Tree has agreed to be responsible for the cash contribution of $25 million for the construction of
SERE. RTD has been advised that other parties benefitting from the project will be contributing to the
$25 million but RTD will need to sign an IGA with only one entity, Lone Tree, to receive those funds.
The IGA will allow Lone Tree to use federal grant funds that would not otherwise have been available to
RTD as part of its payment. Funds will be paid over a three year period anticipated to meet RTD’s
construction cash flow needs. In addition to the cash contribution, Lone Tree is contributing property
rights in the form of deeds and non-revocable licenses to property worth about $50,000 in addition to
the cash. It is also contributing staff time and waiving permit fees with an estimated value of
$150,000.00. In consideration for the Lone Tree contributions and as a prerequisite to their receipt, RTD
must receive the FFGA and award a contract for the construction of the project. If RTD has not started
revenue service by 2020 it must reimburse Lone Tree unless RTD continues to make diligent progress.
Lone Tree is entitled to review all project plans, and all facilities that require local government permitting
will be subject to Lone Tree’s codes, ordinances and standards. The IGA also commits that RTD is
building some temporary drainage and roadway facilities that will be replaced with shared or public
facilities as additional infrastructure is developed in Lone Tree.
The RRMD IGA
The RRMD IGA Rampart Range Metropolitan District, a political subdivision of the State of Colorado is
conveying property required for construction of the line, subject to RTD’s consummation of its

Packet Pg. 253

13.F

transactions with Ridgegate for its property and receipt of the FFGA. RTD estimates the value of the
property being donated by RRMD is over $800,000.
The Ridgegate Agreements
RTD will require right of way and easements from Ridgegate. RTD is acquiring a total of more than 10
acres and drainage and septic easements. The easements will be replaced with shared municipal
drainage and utilities as the area is developed. Closing on all real estate interests is contingent on RTD’s
receipt of an FFGA and proceeding with construction of the project along with satisfaction of title and
escrow matters and completion of the IGAs described above. RTD estimates the value of property being
donated by RIdgegate is about $2 million.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The current projected budget for the Southeast Rail Extension is $233.1 million. This total includes
$34.4 million that was spent through the end of 2014 on environmental analysis, preliminary
engineering and design, and the acquisition of eight light rail vehicles for the project.
The remaining budget for the project from 2015-2019 is projected at $198.7 million. Funding for the
remaining costs is projected to come from the following sources:
FTA Full Funding Grant Agreement

$92.0

FTA CMAQ Funds

7.5

Cash Contribution - Local Entities per IGA

25.0

In-Kind Contribution - Local Entities per IGA

3.0

RTD Local Funding

71.2

Total Remaining Funding

$198.7

Per the current budget projections, RTD would be responsible for 35.8% of the remaining project costs.
The local funding partners would contribute 14.1% of the remaining project cost, and federal grants
would provide 50.1% of the remaining funding. The RTD funding is included in the 2014 Board adopted
FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation and is programmed over the construction period.
Board authorization for Phase I of the Project will allow expenditures up to $24.4 million for design,
related staff costs, and some land acquisition costs from parties other than Lone Tree, Ridgegate and
RRMD. A transfer of $15,180,408 from the FasTracks Management Reserve to the project budget is
also included in the Resolution to cover a portion of the Phase I costs. The remainder of the $24.4
million will be included in the 2016 budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors pass the
attached resolution authorizing the Chair of the RTD Board of Directors and the General Manager,
whether interim or permanent, or their officers or delegates to execute grant agreements, a two
phase design-build contract, intergovernmental agreements (IGAs), purchase and sale contracts,
documents evidencing property interests, and such other agreements as are necessary or
appropriate for the construction of the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) and to accept third party
contributions and increase the project budget by such third party contribution amounts to
implement third party requested betterments, all according to the terms set forth in the Resolution
2. Do not pass the attached resolution. This will jeopardize receipt of an FFGA and construction of
the project. This will put third party funding contributions including cash, right of way and staff
time in jeopardy.

Packet Pg. 254

13.F
ATTACHMENTS:


July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority



RESOLUTION No v2docx AGM edits

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

(PPTX)

(DOCX)

PASSED [13 TO 2]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Marla Lien, General Counsel
Andy Mutz, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 255

Southeast Rail Extension

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
July 14, 2015

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 256

Items for Discussion
• Southeast Rail Extension Update
• Southeast Rail Extension Design Build Contract
• FFGA Process
• Southeast Rail Extension IGA & Contract
Authority
• Next Steps
2

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 257

FasTracks Progress

3
Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 258

Southeast Rail Extension Project

4
Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 259

Current FTA New Starts Process

5
Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 260

Southeast Rail Extension Timeline To Date
• February 2010: RTD Board approved Environmental Evaluation &
Base Engineering establishing project scope and alignment.
• February 2012: Board approved a locally preferred alternative
selected through the NEPA process to insure the project’s eligibility
for federal funding.
• August 2012: RTD Board of Directors approval submission of an
application to the FTA to enter into the federal New Starts process
with goal of receiving a FFGA.
• September 2012: Request Entry into Preliminary Engineering/Project
Development (Requesting $92 Million).
• April 2013: Received approval to enter Project Development (2-years
to complete this step).

6

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 261

Southeast Rail Extension Timeline To Date
(continued)
• July 2014: Board authorized submission of the SERE to the Denver
Regional Council of Governments for inclusion in the Regional
Transportation Plan (RTP) to ensure the project’s continued eligibility
for federal funding.
• September 2014: Request to enter Engineering (final step) was
made in September 2014.
• To meet 2-year window to complete Project Development.
• Per FTA, to be eligible for President’s budget in 2015 .
• Meeting FTA time frame for Federal funding provides opportunity
to leverage a sizeable commitment of private and local
government dollars in cash and right-of-way.

7

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 262

Southeast Rail Extension Timeline To Date
(continued)
• November 2014: Begin 2 step Design Build procurement process
through solicitation of qualifiers from contracting community.
• April 2015: FTA accepts the Southeast Extension into the New Starts
Entry into Engineering Phase and the Southeast Extension is included
in President’s Budget for $92 Million.
• Spring 2016: Anticipate receipt of Full Funding Grant Agreement
(FFGA) and project groundbreaking.

8

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 263

Southeast Rail Extension Facts
• Meets New Starts Criteria
• The Southeast Rail Extension project has been accepted into the
Entry into Engineering, the final step in the New Starts funding
process.
• Keeping the Southeast Rail Extension in the New Starts pipeline
could result in a $92 million FFGA.
• The Southeast Rail Extension project was the only New Starts
project nationwide accepted into MAP-21 Project Development in
2013 .

• Public-Private Financial Commitment
• Provides the opportunity to leverage a sizeable commitment of
private and local government dollars in cash and right-of-way.

9

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 264

Southeast Rail Financing
Funding Source

Million YOE$

Total SERE Project Cost

$233.1

RTD Incurred to Date (12/31/14)

$34.4

Project Cost to Complete

$198.7

Percent

Remaining Project Financing:
Federal Contribution (FFGA)
DRCOG 1st Commitment
(CMAQ)
Local Stakeholder Cash
Commitment
Local Stakeholder ROW

$92.0

46.3%

$7.5

3.8%

$25.0

12.6%

$3.0

1.5%

Subtotal Non-RTD contributions

$127.5

64.2%

RTD Required Additional Match

$71.2

35.8%

Project Cost to Complete

$198.7

100%

10

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 265

Design Build Procurement Schedule
• November 2014

RTD issued a Request for Qualification
(RFQ) to the contracting community

• January 2015

RTD received (7) Statement of Qualifications
(SOQs) from the contracting community

• January 2015

RTD shortlisted (4) teams

• February 2015

RTD issued Request for
Proposal (RFP) to the shortlisted teams

• February – April 2015:

Industry Review & Alternative Technical
Concept (ATC) with the proposing teams

• May 15, 2015:

RTD received (4) design build proposals

• May 15 – June 11:

Proposal Review * Recommendation to GM

11

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 266

RTD Evaluation Process
Board of
Directors
General
Manager
Evaluation
Committee
Technical
Subcommittee
Technical Approach
Working Group
• Systems
• Utilities
• Drainage
• Structures
• General Civil and Track
• Stations
• Traffic Control
• Traffic Signals
•ROW

Stakeholder
Group

Cost Proposal
Subcommittee

Management
Approach
Working Group
• Project Mgmt Plan
• Quality Mgmt Plan
• Safety Mgmt Plan
• Technical Mgmt Approach
• Schedule
• SBE Plan
• Experience of Team
• Experience of Key Staff

12

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 267

Evaluation Criteria and Weighting
• Design/Build Cost Proposal (45 Points Total)
• Technical Proposal Criteria (35 Points Total)
• Management Approval & Organization (10 Points)
• SBE/WIN Approach (10 Points)
• Stakeholder: Provided feedback in the form of Pros & Cons

NOTE: These criteria were included in the Instructions to Proposers
document, as part of the Request for Proposals.

13

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 268

Overall Evaluation
Points
Possible

BBRI

Graham

Kiewit

SWH

Cost of Proposal

45

45

33.47

31.45

35.54

Technical Approach

35

23.1

22.3

19.9

16.0

Management Approval
& Organization

10

7.65

7.50

8.23

7.06

DBE/SBE/WIN

10

7.56

7.25

7.43

7.39

100

83.31

70.52

67.01

65.99

TOTAL SCORE

14

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 269

SouthEast Rail Extension Agreements
IGA with City of Lone Tree
•

Covers cash contribution from all stakeholders

•

Covers staff time & permit fees

•

Donated ROW & Easements

PSA with RidgeGate Investments
•

Covers donated ROW

IGA with CDOT
•

Covers project scope & methods of management

•

Covers use of ROW through common use Agreement

IGA with Rampart Range Metro District
•

Covers donated ROW

IGA with Douglas County
•

Covers donated easements

15

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 270

Next Steps
July 2015:

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
discussion

July 2015:

FasTracks Board Action

August 2015:

RTD submits request for Full Funding
Grant Agreement to the FTA

September 2015: Issue NTP 1 for Design / estimated cost
$24.4 Million
Fall 2015:

Request Board Approval to begin
purchase of private ROW Parcels.

Spring 2016:

Anticipated Receipt of FFGA

Spring 2016:

Issue NTP 2 for Construction
16

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 271

Recommended Action
It is recommended by FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the
Chair of the RTD Board of Directors and the General Manager,
whether interim or permanent, or his delegates to execute grant
agreements, a two phase design-build contract,
intergovernmental agreements (IGAs), purchase and sale
contracts, documents evidencing property interest, and such
other agreements as are necessary or appropriate for the
construction of the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) and to
accept third party contributions and increase the project budget
by such third party contribution amounts to implement third party
requested betterments, all according to the terms set forth in the
Resolution.
17

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 272

Why the Southeast Rail Extension
• Consistent with Board direction, particularly July 2014 approval to
include in the DRCOG Regional Transportation Plan.
• Opportunity to leverage non-RTD dollars ($28 m), FFGA grant ($92 m),
and CMAQ grant ($7.5 m) so that only $71 m RTD dollars are needed
to complete the Southeast Rail Extension Project and advance the
FasTracks Program promised to the voters in 2004.
• Important to maintain relationship with FTA and build on our history of
success in receiving Federal funds.

18

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 273

Why the Southeast Rail Extension (continued)
• Percentage of Third Party funding is significantly higher than any other
Fastracks corridor.
• A committed construction bid that is within budget.
• Widespread Regional Support – City of Lone Tree, Douglas County, The
Metro Mayors Caucus, the City and County of Denver, The City of Aurora,
the Town of Parker, Several businesses and business groups.
• A good business decision for RTD in enabling a remaining project cost of
$198.7 m to be built with only a 35.8% financial commitment from RTD.

19

Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 274

Questions?

20
Attachment: July 2015 SERE Contract Approval and IGA Authority (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other

13.F.a

Packet Pg. 275

13.F.b

RESOLUTION No. _______ SERIES OF 2015
AUTHORIZATION OF THE SOUTHEAST RAIL EXTENSION

Whereas the FasTracks ballot measure was for the funding, construction and operation of the
transportation elements described in the RTD Board adopted FasTracks Plan; and,
Whereas, the Board adopted FasTracks plan has a local government match requirement of 2.5%
of the cost of each project; and,
Whereas, the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) is an element of the Board adopted FasTracks
plan; and,
Whereas on February 21, 2012 the Board approved a locally preferred alternative selected
through the National Environmental Policy Act process to insure the project’s eligibility for federal
funding; and,
Whereas on August 28, 2012 the RTD Board of Directors approval submission of an application
to the Federal Transit Administration to enter into the federal New Starts process with the goal of
receiving a Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA); and,
Whereas on July 15, 2014 the Board authorized submission of the SERE to the Denver Regional
Council Of Governments for inclusion in the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) to ensure the project’s
continued eligibility for federal funding ; and,
Whereas, in preparation for receipt of an FFGA RTD entered into negotiations with local
governments who would be responsible for the FasTracks match requirement and with property owners
who own land necessary for the construction; and
Whereas, the City of Lone Tree (Lone Tree) has agreed to be responsible for collection and
payment of $25 million from various sources to meet and exceed the FasTracks local match
requirement; and,
Whereas, the City of Lone Tree has also agreed to waive permit fees and contribute staff time
and right of way all of which is valued at an estimated $200,000.00 dollars; and,
Whereas Ridgegate Investments , Inc. (Ridgegate) an owner of significant portions of property
necessary for construction of the SERE and Rampart Range Metropolitan District (RRMD) also an owner
of property necessary for construction of the project have each agreed to donate right of way with a
combined value in excess of $2 million for the project; and

Attachment: RESOLUTION No v2docx AGM edits (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other Agreements)

Whereas, on April 22, 2004 the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District (RTD)
adopted the FasTracks plan which was passed by the voters on November 2, 2004; and

1
Packet Pg. 276

13.F.b

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT to obtain an FFGA, ensure price and schedule certainty
for a design- build contract for construction, and to obtain land and funding from local governments and
private owners of property all of which are required to complete the SERE the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the following:
1.
The Chair of the RTD Board of Directors, any Board officers and staff members as may be
required by FTA are authorized to execute an FFGA and any other related federal or state grants draws,
authorizations and certifications necessary to obtain and draw on an FFGA for the SERE provided such
grant is in an amount not less than $92 million.
2.
The General Manager including an Interim General Manager and his designees are authorized
to execute a design build contract with Balfour Beatty/Parsons Brinckerhoff for design and construction
of SERE and to issue Notice to Proceed for design and to authorize staff expenditures for related costs
up to $24.4 million prior to receipt of an FFGA of which $15,180,408 will be made available by a budget
transfer from the FasTracks Management to Reserve to the project in 2015 and the balance will be
included in the 2016 budget. Notice to Proceed for construction may be issued upon RTD’s receipt of a
Full Funding Grant Agreement in an amount not less than $92 million.
3.
The General Manager including an Interim General Manager and his designees are authorized to
execute contracts and intergovernmental agreements for the receipt of FasTracks local match funds,
property grants and dedications and project development and oversight with Lone Tree, Ridgegate and
RRMD prior to receipt of an FFGA.
4.
The General Manager including an Interim General Manager and his designees are authorized
to execute contracts, grant agreements, change orders, deeds, easements, dedications of right of way,
additional contracts for supplies or work project, and amendments to any of the agreements identified
in this Resolution on receipt of an FFGA in an amount not less than $92 million provided that all such
contracts and agreements in total do not exceed the remaining project budget of $198.7 million unless
increases are completely funded by parties other than RTD.

Made and adopted this ___ day of ____, 2015

_____________________________

_________________________________

Chair

Secretary

Charles Sisk

Jeff Walker

Attachment: RESOLUTION No v2docx AGM edits (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other Agreements)

Whereas, to obtain the FFGA RTD must demonstrate that it has obtained necessary
commitments for funding, property, and construction pricing to build the project within the schedule
and plan of finance submitted by RTD

2
Packet Pg. 277

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 006 Authorization of the Southeast Rail Extension (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other Agreements)

13.F.c

Packet Pg. 278

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 006 Authorization of the Southeast Rail Extension (2445 : SERE DB Contract and other Agreements)

13.F.c

Packet Pg. 279

13.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: July 9, 2015

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

July 8, 2015

Subject:

2015-2020 Strategic Plan

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: July 28, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the
2015-2020 RTD Strategic Plan.
BACKGROUND
The RTD Strategic Plan reflects guidance and direction from the District’s Board of Directors,
supplemented by extensive staff, stakeholder, and public input. The Plan includes material from the
2015 Board Strategic Advance, and Plan content was heavily based upon two separate sets of one-onone meetings with Board members during the first half of 2015.
Key contributions to the Plan are the result of additional outreach including the following:







Thirty employee Listening Sessions held at fifteen different locations;
An Employee Survey completed by 1,363 employees;
A meeting with the RTD Customer Panel;
Meetings with the Citizen’s Advisory Committee (April 15 and July 8, 2015);
A Local Government Planning Meeting (March 12, 2015); and
Results from the 2014 Customer Satisfaction Survey.

The Plan also reflects input from the Board’s June 30, 2015 Study Session.
The Strategic Plan is organized around seven overall strategies reflecting RTD’s mission. These are:
 Customer Service
 Safety
 Financial Sustainability
 Equity and Accessibility
 System Optimization
 Technological Innovation
 Workforce
Each strategy is accompanied by a goal statement, narrative describing the strategic theme in more
detail, and a set of initiatives that articulate short-, medium-, and long-term implementation. Most of
these initiatives are ongoing in nature, and will be a continuous effort during the five-year plan timeframe. Some of the initiatives involve actions that may not come to fruition until beyond the five-year
time-frame but warrant action now.
The Strategic Plan represents a Board-initiated and adopted document that singularly incorporates longerterm policies, complementing other Board efforts and actions. For example, tactical plans such as the
Strategic Budget Plan, FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation, Annual Budget, and Annual Board/Senior
Leadership Team Strategic Planning advance are at a more immediate implementation level while the
Strategic Plan looks at the next five years and well beyond.

Packet Pg. 280

13.G

Strategic Plan Implementation will take place in a number of ways. A subsequent document will
describe performance measures to monitor and report on the success of Plan initiatives. In addition, the
Strategic Plan will be referenced during preparation of Board Reports, the Annual Budget, and the
Strategic Budget Plan. Finally, the Board will review the Strategic Plan annually during the Strategic
Planning Advance to check on timeframes, relevance, and content of the seven key strategies identified
in this document.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Financial impact attributable to Strategic Plan initiatives has previously been incorporated or will be
considered in the Annual Budget, Strategic Budget Plan, and/or FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation as
appropriate.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the 2015-2020 RTD Strategic Plan.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action.
ATTACHMENTS:


RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
AWAY:

(PDF)

PASSED [8 TO 6]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Hoy, James, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Menten, Solano
Gary Lasater

Prepared by:
Brian Welch, Senior Manager, Planning Technical Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 281

STRATEGIC PLAN
Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

13.G.a

p. 282
1
Packet Pg.

13.G.a

Foreword. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
Section 1 | Customer Service.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Section 2 | Safety.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8
Section 3 | Financial Sustainability .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10
Section 4 | Equity and Accessibility.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Section 5 | System Optimization .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14
Section 6 | Technological Innovation .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Section 7 | Workforce .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 18

Acknowledgments
RTD Board of Directors
Chair.............................. Chuck Sisk
First Vice Chair ........... Tom Tobiassen
Second Vice Chair..... Natalie Menten
Secretary ..................... Jeff Walker
Treasurer ..................... Larry Hoy
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Paul Daniel Solano

Ernest Archuleta
Dr. Claudia Folska
Gary Lasater

Kent Bagley
Tina Francone
Judy Lubow

Paula Perdue .............. Executive Director to the RTD Board
of Directors

The RTD Strategic Plan reflects guidance and direction from
the District’s Board of Directors, supplemented by extensive
staff, stakeholder, and public input. Key contributions to the
Plan are the result of outreach including the following: thirty
employee Listening Sessions held at fifteen different facilities;
an Employee Survey completed by 1,363 employees;
meetings with our Customer Panel, Citizen’s Advisory
Committee, and a Local Government Planning Meeting; and
findings from our 2014 Customer Satisfaction Survey.
Adopted by the RTD Board of Directors
July 28, 2015

Senior Leadership Team
Dave Genova ............ Interim General Manager/CEO
Bruce Abel ................. Bus Operations
Rick Clarke ................. Capital Programs
Heather Copp ........... Finance and Administration
Terry Emmons............ Rail Operations
Marla Lien................... General Counsel
Scott Reed ................. Communications
John Tarbert ............... Safety, Security & Facilities (Acting)
Bill Van Meter ............ Planning

Strategic Plan Working Group
Brian Welch................. Project Manager
Lacy Bell

John Elias

Genevieve Hutchison

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Contents

Bill Sirois

Strategic Plan Advisory Committee

p. 2

Rolf Asphaug, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Beverly Lindsay,
Robin McIntosh, Robert Medina, Jannette Scarpino, Cherie
Sprague, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas
Packet Pg. 283

13.G.a

The exhibit on this page provides the context for the Strategic Plan within RTD’s overall planning and budgeting process. As shown,
the Strategic Plan represents the District’s long-term strategy and vision, carefully integrated with the Board’s short-term goals
established during the annual Strategic Planning Advance.
The Plan is organized around seven overall strategies serving RTD’s mission. Each strategy is accompanied by a goal statement,
narrative describing the strategic theme in more detail, and a set of initiatives that articulate short-, medium-, and long-term
implementation. Most of these initiatives are ongoing in nature, and will be a continuous effort during the five-year plan time-frame.
Some of the initiatives involve actions that may not come to fruition until beyond the five-year time frame, but warrant action now.

Environmental
PEST

SWOT*

Exercise

Exercise

External
Scan

Internal
Scan

• Political
• Economic
• Sociocultural
• Technological

• Listening
Sessions
• 1 on 1s
• Stakeholders

Strategic
Priorities /Goals
Short
Term
Goals
(+- 1yr)

Long
Term
Goals
(+5yrs)

Joint
Strategic
Planning
Advance

Strategic
Plan

* Strengths, weaknesses,
oppurtunities, and threats

The process begins with the
Board understanding the current
and future environment the District
operates within.

Tactical Plans
Strategic
Budget Plan
Annual Operating
Budget
Annual Program
Evaluation
(FasTracks)

Performance
Evaluation
Quarterly
Performance
Measures
GM Bi-Annual
Surveys
GM/Agency
Performance
Evaluation

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Strategic Planning Process Flow

IMPLEMENTATION LEVEL
The Board develops and adopts
both short- and long-term goals,
building on the environmental step.

Tactical plans provide guidance
for future annual Board decisions,
specifying how goals will be
implemented. These plans reflect
goals from the previous step.

The Board uses an array of
performance measures to assess
progress on both short- and longterm goals from the Strategic plan
and the Tactical plans.

p.p.
33
Packet Pg.
284

13.G.a

FOREWORD
On behalf of the RTD Board of Directors, we adopt the 2015 Strategic
Plan. This Plan reflects the Board’s collective vision for the District
– for both the next five years, and for decades to come as well. The
Board has identified seven strategies that help frame the District’s
big-picture goals, accompanied by initiatives to implement them. This
Plan clearly and simply articulates those goals for our employees,
stakeholders, and most of all, our passengers.
RTD is a complex organization, relying on hundreds of employees to serve nearly 3 million
people spread over 2,340 square miles across the Denver metro area. This complexity,
however, does not obscure the simple strategies and goals that are paramount to the District:
customer service, safety, and financial sustainability. To these we provide additional strategies
and goals that amplify and support our fundamental, basic mission. Included among these is
our commitment to implement the FasTracks program approved by the voters in 2004.
It is the Board’s hope that the Strategic Plan will be our guiding, aspirational document detailing
how we will move forward together. In my previous role as a city Mayor, we always turned to
our comprehensive plan to influence important land use decisions. The Strategic Plan should
serve a similar purpose, helping us make sound choices that direct and shape what RTD is,
what RTD does, and why we do it. This Plan focuses on the next five years, yet looks far into the
future, and we will revisit it periodically as circumstances warrant. The Board is committed to
making decisions based on sound public policy, and the Strategic Plan is a key tool in doing so.

RTD MISSION STATEMENT

RTD Interim General Manager Dave Genova
RTD was created in 1969 by the Colorado General Assembly to
develop, operate, and maintain a mass transportation system. Since
then, the District has made strategic decisions based upon careful
budget planning, attracting and retaining a talented workforce,
and never losing sight of our commitment to our customers and
safety. From our beginnings as a bus company, we have added light
rail, transformed Denver Union Station, and witnessed extensive
development around our transit stations. The FasTracks program,
which will add more light rail, new commuter rail, and new bus rapid transit, is carving an
unmistakable mark on the Denver metro area. It is now time to adopt a Strategic Plan to
move us into the next five years and beyond.
Between 2016 and 2020, RTD will undergo another period of transition as significant
portions of the FasTracks program begin revenue service, and the bulk of our current major
capital expansion program winds down. The Strategic Plan will be an important document
as we move through this transition, since it identifies seven key strategies to focus our
attention. We will build upon a solid foundation, particularly in the safety area, which the
overwhelming majority of RTD employees understand is RTD’s top priority. Additionally,
this plan details how we will enhance customer service, use technology to improve
the customer experience, optimize our growing system, continue to ensure financial
sustainability, and maintain a dynamic workforce. Join me as we maintain RTD’s position as
one of the top transit agencies in the country and continue our strong legacy of providing
safe, reliable transportation to the region.

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

RTD Board Chair Chuck Sisk

To meet our constituents’ present and future public transportation needs by providing safe,
clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and cost-effective service throughout the District.

p. 4
Packet Pg. 285

DISTRICT SNAPSHOT
2000
78 million

2002
81 million

2004
83 million

2006
86 million

2008
104 million

2010
98 million

Internet access

2020

76%
2012
99 million

2014
105 million

66.6%

55.7%

86.8
%

MOBILE BOTH EIT
E
HER
M
HO

Population in millions

Boardings

72%

60.7%

47%

81.8
%

MOBILE BOTH EIT
E
HER
M
HO

1,033

172

48 mi

Overall customer satisfaction
is high: 4+ out of 5

2014

Total Bus

Light Rail

4.2

4.2

1,052

94%
69%

Mobile
Phone
(Any)
Smartphone
and/or
Tablet

267

40%

95 mi

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Ridership

Denver Metro Region 13.G.a

500k+ new
jobs increase
demand

91%

48%

62%

Percentage of Low-Income
Passengers*

Electronic device ownership

1 in 4 age 60+

*RTD defines “Low Income” 150% U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Federal Poverty Level.

RTD Operating Revenue – Base System

22%
fares

18%

operating grants

59%

sales tax

1%

other income & revenue

p. 286
5
Packet Pg.

13.G.a

Strategy:
Deliver CustomerOriented Service
Deliver safe, reliable,
and efficient transit
service District-wide.
Engage our customers
to improve services in
an open and transparent
manner.

Overall customer satisfaction
is high: 4+ out of 5

2014

Total Bus

Light Rail

4.2

4.2

RTD’s customer experience has to be safe and reliable for RTD
to continue to maintain and grow its customer base. On-time
performance and service reliability will allow RTD to build a
competitive edge within the regional transportation system
as vehicular travel becomes increasingly difficult in the future.
Having a seamless interface between all RTD services—whether
it be bus, Access-a-Ride, light rail or commuter rail—should be a
high priority to ensure RTD customer satisfaction. RTD customers
must feel comfortable and safe on any RTD service, whether it is
run by RTD or one of its contractors.
Responding to customer needs is important in the 21st century.
As rider expectations evolve, RTD must endeavor to meet their
needs with a growing emphasis on technology and immediate,
reliable information. It will be critical for RTD to proactively
engage our customers to seek ways to improve our service,
and to be transparent about the realities of how we operate
our services. Finding new and improved ways to engage
our customers will allow RTD to stay ahead of the curve and
anticipate rather than react to customer needs.

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Customer Service

p. 6
Packet Pg. 287

Enhance policies for accommodating needs of passengers on vehicles

Provide opportunities for customer engagement

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10
Strategic Plan)
Technological
System
Equity and (2441 : Financial
Innovation
Optimization
Accessibility
Sustainability

Provide a seamless customer interface between RTD and contracted services

Workforce

Initiatives

Safety

Customer
Service

13.G.a

p. 288
7
Packet Pg.

13.G.a

Strategy:
Foster a Safety Culture
Continue to develop
new approaches and
new technologies to create
safer environments for our
riders and our workforce.
Establish best practices
with safety partners to
develop a performancedriven safety culture.

“RTD is the best transit agency in
the country because of our great
team of employees and what you
do every day to safely deliver our
mission.”

RTD recognizes that management and employee commitment is
the hallmark of a true safety culture, where safety is an integral
part of daily operations. To support safety’s priority in the agency,
RTD will strengthen accountability systems and promote a safety
culture. Safety accountability includes establishing safety goals,
measuring safety activity, eliminating hazards and unsafe work
behaviors, and proactively improving the safety environment.
In the recent employee survey more than 70% of employees
responded favorably to questions about RTD’s safety priorities
(72%), the safety of their work life (76%) and the ease with which
they can report safety concerns (84%). Still, maintaining safe
service requires constant vigilance and collaboration throughout
the agency. Through the Strategic Plan, RTD looks to improve
customer and employee safety by encouraging respectful
collaboration founded on mutual trust. RTD has an organizational
commitment to establish the core value of safety. RTD will
further promote a positive safety culture where values, attitudes,
competencies and patterns of behavior will improve the health
and safety of employees and customers. RTD will continue to
build on an already robust safety culture through enhanced
employee engagement. Ultimately, safety is each employee’s
responsibility.

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Safety

Dave Genova

p. 8
Packet Pg. 289

Establish and implement an internal safety audit system for Bus Operations
Create training modules for management and supervisory staff focused on safety training,
accident prevention, team building, hazard recognition, and safety communication
Develop and implement a confidential, non-punitive safety reporting system for all
employees to report hazards, unsafe acts, and unsafe conditions
Develop an enhanced safety communications and outreach program

Adopt and transition to a proactive safety management system (SMS) philosophy

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10
(2441Financial
: Strategic Plan) Safety
Technological
System
Equity and
Innovation
Optimization
Accessibility
Sustainability

Build a strong safety alliance and partnership between management, employees
and customers

Workforce

Initiatives

Customer
Service

13.G.a

p. 9290
Packet Pg.

13.G.a

Strategy:
Strengthen Fiscal
Resiliency and Explore
Financial Innovation
Ensure cost-effective and
responsible use of funding
and proactively pursue
partnerships to supplement
District resources. Strengthen
fiscal resiliency and explore
financial innovation to keep
the system in a state of
good repair and deliver
better service.

RTD has the responsibility to use taxpayer and passenger dollars
to provide the best possible public transit service. To consistently
deliver excellent services and projects, RTD must maintain
financial stability. Multi-year financial planning is vital to ensure
that capital and service visions become realities. The agency can
augment its finances by maximizing the revenues it generates
through operations and by exploring new sources of income.
Traditional funding sources alone will be insufficient to meet
the long-term needs of the future RTD system. RTD must also
continue to seek out non-traditional partnerships with public and
private sector partners to leverage outside funds.
Even as RTD employs asset management programs and
endeavors to keep the system in a state of good repair,
ongoing investment must be sustained to keep its vehicles and
infrastructure functioning and to maintain a robust system. These
assets often require more frequent maintenance to ensure
safety and ongoing functionality, which puts a growing burden
on the operating budget. Reliable and sustainable funding will
be absolutely necessary for RTD to make the critical investments
that the region needs. A long-term comprehensive funding
plan that takes into account both operating and capital needs is
essential to creating a robust, modern transit system.

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Financial Sustainability

p. 10
Packet Pg. 291

Customer
Service

13.G.a

Seek innovative funding opportunities to expand revenue sources

Preserve financial sustainability and maintain a structurally balanced long-range budget
Pursue financing opportunities to deliver better service and complete
future system expansion projects
Attract and retain employees through competitive wages and benefits

RTD Operating Revenue – Base System

22%
fares

18%

operating grants

59%

sales tax

1%

other income & revenue

Workforce

Direct funding to highest-priority projects and enhance strategic budget planning

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10
Strategic Plan)
Technological
System
Equity and (2441 : Financial
Sustainability
Innovation
Optimization
Accessibility

Safety

Initiatives

p. 11
Packet Pg.
292

13.G.a

Strategy:
Improve Customer
Access and Support
Transit-Oriented
Communities
Provide travel choices and
mobility opportunities
District-wide, balancing
equity and accessibility
needs for all. Promote
vibrant places by connecting
communities to transit and
leveraging transportation
infrastructure investment.

A balanced approach to accessing RTD facilities will be important
in order to continue to expanding and increase RTD’s customer
base. Active transportation options such as walking, biking, car
share, and ride share should be embraced as viable alternatives
to access RTD facilities in addition to personal vehicles and buses.
Improved first and final mile connections through partnerships with
local jurisdictions, developers and other entities are essential to
expanding multi-modal access and growing ridership.
Continued improvement of access for people with disabilities is
important to preserve mobility for those with limited options.
Best efforts to adhere to the American with Disabilities Act
(ADA) Standards for Accessible Design at all RTD facilities,
and continued improvement of efficiency of RTD’s Access-a-

48%

new apartments
are within

Ride service and ADA access to fixed route service, are key to
preserving mobility for the disabled community.
Promoting the creation of diverse transit oriented communities
around our facilities serves RTD well by improving accessibility
near stations and expanding RTD’s ridership base. Local
jurisdictions have prioritized development around RTD facilities
as means to direct future growth. RTD should proactively partner
with local jurisdictions and others to leverage this planning vision
and create vibrant, walkable areas around stations. In creating
these transit oriented communities, RTD needs to be sensitive to
community issues such as affordable housing and transportation,
and should work with local jurisdictions and others to find
solutions to promote neighborhood diversity.

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Equity and Accessibility

½ mile
radius of an
RTD station

p. 12
Packet Pg. 293

Foster livable, equitable, and accessible communities at transit facilities

Optimize District-wide parking resources
Support ADA Accessibility through adherence to Standards for Accessible
Design and improved efficiencies with Access-a-Ride and fixed route services
Work with private and non-profit partners to collaborate on new technologies such as
car and bicycle sharing, autonomous vehicles and other transportation innovations

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10
Strategic Plan)
Technological
System
Equity and (2441 : Financial
Accessibility
Innovation
Optimization
Sustainability

Support and coordinate investments to improve first and final mile connections
to transit facilities

Workforce

Initiatives

Safety

Customer
Service

13.G.a

p. 13
Packet Pg.
294

13.G.a

Strategy:
Optimize Service
Delivery
Balance competing
mobility needs across
the District to provide
service in the most efficient
manner possible. Work with
partners to develop, fund
and complete FasTracks and
increase ridership.

Ridership
Ridership
2000
78 million

2002
81 million

RTD began as a bus company and has expanded with the Central,
Southwest, Southeast, Central Platte Valley, and West light rail
lines. The District has also added a variety of other transportation
options, including Call-n-Ride, Access-a-Ride, Limited stop bus
services, Express and Regional bus services, and an extensive
Park-n-Ride system.
The FasTracks program represents one of the most ambitious,
large-scale transit expansion programs ever undertaken in
the United States. The combination of light rail, commuter rail,
downtown circulation, and bus rapid transit capital investment
projects—as well as Denver Union Station and its integrated
transit oriented development—is destined to transform the
Denver metropolitan region. A key effort over the next five
years will be to carefully integrate the FasTracks projects into
2020
our existing bus and rail system.

2004
83 million

2006
86 million

2008
104 million

2010
98 million

2012
99 million

2014
105 million

While most of FasTracks will be in service by 2020, key
components of the program will likely not be completed. During
the next five years, the District is committed to exploring financial
and implementation strategies to keep these unfinished projects
in the forefront to fully realize the voters’ 2004 vision. It is
unlikely that RTD can fully fund these projects from FasTracks
sales tax revenues in the near term, so partnerships with local
governments and private companies will become an integral
component of the funding strategy.
FasTracks, however, will not meet all the transit demands
expected during the longer time horizon of 15 to 25 years.
These 2040 transit needs, based on Denver Regional Council
of Governments jobs and housing growth projections, must
be planned for implementation a decade or more from now.
Internetthese
accessneeds may require improving the existing
Addressing
55.7% Other needs will likely be met by a thorough
66.6%capacity.
system’s
86.
76%
exploration
of bus rapid8% transit investments throughout the
OBILE BOTH EI
District,
streets and on State highways. Finally,
THE
E Mboth on arterial
M
O
R
H
RTD will need to explore visionary approaches to linking the
District’s light rail, commuter rail, and bus rapid transit systems
with other transit systems serving the rest of the Front
Range.
in millions

Denver Metro Region

Population

Boardings

72%

60.7%

47%

OBILE BOTH EI
THE
E M
R
HOM

p. 14

1,033

172

48 mi

1,052

267

95 mi

81.8
%

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

System Optimization

40%
Packet Pg. 295

500k+ new

Northwest Rail Line

Customer
Service

13.G.a

NIWOT
Gunbarrel

ERIE

Safety

LAFAYETTE

LOUISVILLE

BRIGHTON

US 36 BRT Line • 2016
SUPERIOR

BROOMFIELD

NORTHGLENN

Work with partners to develop, fund and complete FasTracks and increase ridership

THORNTON

WESTMINSTER

North Metro Rail Line • 2018

Continuously improve service delivery and reliability, including integration
of new corridors with existing services

FEDERAL
HEIGHTS

76
25

COMMERCE
CITY
76

ARVADA

Northwest Rail Line • 2016

Gold Line • 2016

Continue long-term, advanced planning for system expansion projects

270

East Rail Line • 2016

70

70

WHEAT RIDGE
UNION
STATION

GOLDEN

Central Rail Extension
DENVER

Partner with local communities to invest in transit-supportive infrastructure

AURORA

Free MetroRide • 2014
Central Rail Line

West Rail Line • 2013

GLENDALE
LAKEWOOD

MORRISON

Pursue a meaningful lessons-learned program to continuously improve project delivery

I-225 Rail Line • 2016

ENGLEWOOD
285

SHERIDAN

Maintain existing procedures that continually evaluate and adjust service, based
upon evolving service standards and budget needs
Establish a leadership role with other agencies to integrate transit services throughout
the State of Colorado

Southwest Rail Line
GREENWOOD
VILLAGE
C-470

LITTLETON

LEGEND

Southeast Rail Line
CENTENNIAL

Under Construction

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10
Strategic Plan)
Technological
System
Equity and (2441 : Financial
Optimization
Innovation
Accessibility
Sustainability

Pursue ongoing enhancements and improvements to the existing
transit system (services and facilities)

Southwest Rail Extension

Completed

LONE TREE

Pre-FasTracks
HIGHLANDS
RANCH

Future Construction

Southeast Rail Extension
Station

N

25

Workforce

Initiatives

BOULDER

p. 15
Packet Pg.
296

PA

13.G.a

Strategy:
Use Technology to
Operate Efficiently and
Improve the Customer
Experience
Implement technological
advancements to enhance
the customer experience,
operate more effectively,
and improve communication.
Modernize the transit
experience with user-friendly
technology to allow for more
seamless travel across
the region.

94%
69%

Mobile
Phone
(Any)
Smartphone
and/or
Tablet

91%

Employing technology can help RTD not only increase ridership
but also better manage its business, assets, and operations.
Customer expectations are changing with a shift in rider
demographics, travel patterns and needs. Meeting customer
needs means providing access to information, ensuring
connectivity with devices throughout the system, and employing
the technological innovations that have become the norm. A
public transportation system that is easy to understand and use
is not only important in attracting and retaining riders but also in
increasing market share. Technology-based customer information
tools are essential to inform riders about transit services and help
them easily navigate the RTD system.
Just as technology can help customers make better decisions
about travel, new tools at the system level will help RTD make
and implement better strategic and investment decisions that
can save time and money. The challenge is to systematically
develop and introduce these new tools, for both customers and
RTD processes, while staying up to date in new technological
innovation.

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Technological Innovation

62%

Electronic device ownership
p. 16
Packet Pg. 297

Integrate technology systems to automate data transfers and improve service delivery

Establish agency-wide information governance strategy

Improve the rider experience with easy fare payment options through Smart Card Technology
Implement real-time arrival information for bus and rail customers, providing riders
with access from mobile devices, desktops, and public information displays

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10
Strategic Plan)
Technological
System
Equity and (2441 : Financial
Innovation
Optimization
Accessibility
Sustainability

Develop a 5-year Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Plan to assess the current
state of technology development in the District and establish a roadmap
for future technology development

Workforce

Initiatives

Safety

Customer
Service

13.G.a

p. 17
Packet Pg.
298

13.G.a

Strategy:
Foster a Dynamic and
Sustainable Workforce
Attract and serve a
dynamic workforce with
competitive benefits
and career advancement
opportunities. Improve
collaboration and
communication between
workgroups while
transferring knowledge to
the next generation.

RTD recognizes that our employees are the single most important
asset in the organization. As the baby-boomer generation
nears retirement, the agency needs an ever-greater focus on
recruiting and training employees with competitive benefits while
providing the knowledge and skills for those employees to build
their careers in public transportation. Additionally, a coordinated
effort to capture the experience and knowledge from the current
workforce will pass knowledge to the next generation.
The upcoming completion of a large percentage of FasTracks will
also require that RTD examine the best use of resources to shift
focus from construction to maintaining existing and new assets.
Results from the recently-conducted employee survey show that
the agency’s focus on safety and customer service are wellestablished at every level of the organization. However, that
survey also revealed concerns about internal communication and
collaboration. RTD has made a commitment to improve two-way
communication to ensure that every employee’s voice counts.
50%

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Workforce

p. 18
Packet Pg. 299

Strengthen workforce by building on the success of Leadership Programs

Establish transition paths for workforce as the agency evolves

Build on wellness and rehabilitation services to enhance employee health and safety

Optimize the workforce to match the age and maturity of the transit system

Attract and train skilled workers in key trades
Foster a two-way communication culture with every level of the organization, including
enhanced opportunities for Board/staff interaction

Safety
Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10
Strategic Plan)
Technological
System
Equity and (2441 : Financial
Innovation
Optimization
Accessibility
Sustainability

Document institutional knowledge and develop knowledge transfer tools to
ensure capacity is retained in the face of retirements and attrition

Workforce

Initiatives

Customer
Service

13.G.a

p. 19300
Packet Pg.

13.G.a

Strategic Plan implementation will take place in a number of ways.
A subsequent document will describe performance measures to
monitor and report on the success of Plan initiatives. In addition, the
Strategic Plan will be referenced during preparation of Board Reports,
the Annual Operating Budget, and the Strategic Budget Plan. Finally,
the Board will review the Strategic Plan annually during the Strategic
Planning Advance to check on timeliness, relevance and content of
the seven key strategies identified in this document.

STRATEGIC PLAN

Attachment: RTD_Stategic_Plan_layout_v10 (2441 : Strategic Plan)

Afterword

© 2015 Regional Transportation District (RTD) Denver, Colorado

Infographics Sources: RTD annual reporting and forecasts (revenue sources, boardings – current and forecast, vehicles – current and forecast, apartments near stations),
2014 RTD Customer Satisfaction Survey (overall satisfaction, % of low-income, device ownership and internet access),
DRCOG Metro Vision 2040 draft plan (population and jobs 2040 forecasts).

p. 20
Packet Pg. 301

13.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

RTD Board of Directors

Date:

From:

General Manager Oversight and Performance
Committee, Director Bagley, Chair

GM

Date:

July 1, 2015

Board Meeting Date: August 18, 2015

Subject:

Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016
Goals

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the Interim General Manager’s goals for 2016 as defined in the attached
General Manager’s Performance Evaluation Form.
BACKGROUND
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee works with the General
Manager to enhance its oversight responsibilities for the General Manager’s performance and to develop
processes that are approved by the full Board and are transparent to the public.
On July 20, 2010, the Board formalized and approved the goal setting process for the General Manager.
That process defines the steps the Board will follow in establishing the annual goals for the General
Manager. Beginning in 2011, these goals include core and task goals. Core goals are based on the
General Manager’s job description and are generally considered part of the ongoing responsibilities of the
General Manager. The task goals are a compilation of the priorities from the annual joint Board and staff
Advance Planning Session that occurs at the beginning of the year.
One of the steps in the process is to formalize the General Manager’s annual goals using the same
salaried employee performance evaluation form that is used by the rest of the RTD employees. This
action item is to formalize that process.
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair and the full committee
have reviewed these 2016 core and task goals with the Interim General Manager and approved them on
7/07/15 to move to the full Board for approval.
DISCUSSION
Please refer to the attached General Manager Performance Evaluation form which identifies the five core
goals for 2016 and the three task goals for 2016. The attached Interim General Manager Tactical Plan
for 2016 is submitted as a supplement to this document.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact to implementing this policy.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept this recommended action for approval of the Interim General Manager’s 2016 goals. This
will complete the formalized process as approved by the Board members for goal setting.
2. Do not accept this recommended action. Work with the Interim General Manager to revise the
2016 goals. This will delay the schedule established for the approval of the goals.

Packet Pg. 302

13.H

3. Do nothing. Accept the risk and consequences of not complying with the State Auditor’s
recommendation for a clear and documented process.

Related Board Policies:

Board Policy on Goal Setting for the General Manager (approved 7/20/10)
Approval of 2010 General Manager’s Goals (approved 10/26/10)
Board Policy on General Manager Evaluation Process (approved 7/20/10)

ATTACHMENTS:


Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016



2015-05-04 Tactical Plan Memo (PDF)



2015-05-12 Goal 1

(PDF)



2015-05-12 Goal 2

(PDF)



2015-05-12 Goal 3

(PDF)

RESULT:
AYES:
AWAY:

(XLSX)

TABLED [14 TO 0]
Next: 8/18/2015 5:30 PM
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Gary Lasater

Prepared by:
Paula Perdue, Executive Director
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 303

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
GENERAL MANAGER PERFORMANCE EVALUATION FORM for 2016 GOALS
Employee Name: David A. Genova

Anniversary Date: January 1, 2016

Position Title: General Manager

Review Period: 1/1/2016 - 1/1/2017

Supervisor Name: Chairman of the RTD Board of Directors

Appraisal Meeting Date:

Periodic Review

Date:

EXCEEDS EXPECTATIONS:

Periodic Review

Periodic Review

Date:

Date:

RATING SCALE GUIDELINES

Performance in this goal was beyond the expectations of the position in one or more of the following areas: the objectives and/or responsibilities
were significantly expanded upon by the employee to better address the task; significant additional and unexpected tasks were successfully
accomplished; objectives were consistently met well ahead of the deadline in order to facilitate future progress; innovations had a major effect on
the division or organization. Not every goal has the potential for an “Exceeds Expectations” level of rating, since many goals must be completed
exactly as described.

ACHIEVED GOAL:

Performance in this goal was consistently met. The objectives normally fell into the following area(s): the objective was accomplished and was
thorough and complete; and/or was accomplished efficiently; and/or met the deadlines; and/or was competently performed; and/or met the
quantity expectations; and/or met the quality expectations. Failure to meet any of these standards was typically due to conditions outside the
control of the employee.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT:

Performance in this goal failed to meet the minimum expectations of this position. The objectives always or frequently fell into one or more of
the following area(s): was not accomplished; was not accomplished by the deadline; was only accomplished due to other(s) performing some or
all of the portions of the task; was accomplished but quality was unacceptable; was accomplished but quantities were lower than acceptable.
This rating means that immediate and significant improvement is needed. An action plan to improve performance should be put in place.

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

1

Packet Pg. 304

GENERAL MANAGER CORE GOALS
GOAL #1: Successful Delivery of Transit Services: Attain 80% performance measures, and further advance implementation of smart card
technology.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT (NI)

ACHIEVED GOAL (AG)

Fails to achieve at least 70% of RTD Board-approved
Achieves 80% of RTD Board-approved performance
performance measures; OR fails to further advance
measures; AND further advances implementation of smart
implementation of smart card technology; OR fails to create, card technology; AND creates, collaborates, explains, and
collaborate, explain, and implement unincorporated/urban
implements unincorporated/urban/suburban local area
local/suburban local area service standards; OR fails to
service standards; AND presents a plan to not significantly
present a plan to maintain existing service levels.
reduce service levels.

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS (EE)

Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas including one of
the following:
• Achieves 90% or more of RTD Board-approved
performance measures;
• Provides outstanding and noteworthy service for major
RTD-supported special events, conventions, 16th Street
Mall events, BroncosRide, etc.

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if NI or EE):

GOAL #2: Strong & Ethical Leadership: Articulates vision, forms cohesive team, regular team-building sessions, builds and maintains effective
executive team, and handles conflict.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

ACHIEVED GOAL

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS

GM does not provide an organizational vision that is
GM provides an organizational vision that is understood and Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas including one of
understood or achieved; OR GM fails to communicate on a achieved; AND GM communicates on a regular basis with
the following: 1) Displays exceptional leadership skills as
regular basis with Senior Leaders and employees OR SLT or the SLT and employees; AND SLT and employees form a
evident by the agency being called upon to address national
employees are not a cohesive team as evident through inter- cohesive team as evident through inter-departmental
transportation industry issues; 2) Recognized both locally
departmental coordination; OR GM does not conduct
coordination; AND GM conducts scheduled team-building
and nationally as being clear and transparent in agency
regularly scheduled team-building sessions w/the Board and sessions w/the Board and SLT; AND GM builds and
operations.
SLT; OR GM fails to build an effective executive team; OR maintains an effective executive team; AND is flexible and
does not adhere to the District's Code of Ethics; OR fails to adaptable in dealings with others; AND adheres to the
oversee and ensure the District's performance
District's Code of Ethics; AND oversees and ensures the
management/evaluation program.
success of RTD's performance management program.

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if NI or EE):

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

2

Packet Pg. 305

GENERAL MANAGER CORE GOALS (Con't)
GOAL #3: Strong Financial Management: Oversees operating and FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance with local, state, and federal
reporting, and development of financing plans for future projects.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

ACHIEVED GOAL

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS

GM does not adequately oversee the budgeting, accounting, GM oversees the budgeting, accounting, payroll, grants
Meets Achieved Goal criteria PLUS one of the following: 1)
payroll, grants administration, debt, investments,
administration, debt, investments, performance reporting,
Financing plans are creative to the point they save the
performance reporting, revenue and ridership reporting, all revenue and ridership reporting, and all FasTracks-related
District substantial funds; 2) Aggressive pursuit of grants
FasTracks-related finance operations; OR GM does not
finance operations, leading to a balanced budget; AND GM and/or alternative financing leads to additional funding for
ensure compliance with local, state and federal reporting
ensures compliance with local, state and federal reporting
District's capital programs and/or a reduction in otherwise
requirements for budgets, audits and other financial
requirements for budgets, audits and other financial
anticipated service reductions.
documents; OR GM does not oversee the development of
documents; AND GM oversees the development of the RTD
the RTD annual budget and financing plans for future
annual budget and financing plans for future projects.
projects.

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if NI or EE):

GOAL #4: Ensures Equal Employment Opportunity(EEO)/Affirmative Action (AA)/Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE)/Small Business
Enterprise (SBE): As written in Achieved Goal Criteria below.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

ACHIEVED GOAL

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS

Fails to ensure resolution of EEO-related
Ensures resolution of EEO-related concerns/complaints in
Meets all Achieved Goal critera, PLUS one of the following:
concerns/complaints in a timely manner, OR does not
timely manner; AND includes AA goal consideration in
1) The District is lauded both locally and nationally for its
consider Affirmative Action goals in applicable hiring
applicable hiring decisions; AND considers utilization of DBE SBE/DBE/WIN Programs; 2) Base system and FasTracks
decisions, OR does not consider utilization of DBE
companies in applicable purchasing decisions, AND
DBE/SBE/WIN goals are achieved; 3) Innovative programs
companies in applicable purchasing decisions, OR fails to
schedules appropriate staff to participate in EEO/AA/DBE
in this area are pursued and implemented; 4) FTA Triennial
schedule appropriate staff to attend EEO/AA/DBE training
training and/or DBE events; AND attends RTD's DBE events Reviews focusing on these areas are exceptional.
and/or DBE events, OR fails to attend assigned/required
and related Chamber events; AND FTA Triennial Reviews
EEO/AA/DBE events; OR FTA Triennial Reviews focusing on focusing on these areas are adequate.
these areas are not adequate.

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if NI or EE):

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

3

Packet Pg. 306

GENERAL MANAGER CORE GOALS (Con't)
GOAL #5: Effective Communications & Community Outreach: Keeps Board informed, periodically meets with Board members, delivers
presentations in local and national venues, and develops aggressive FasTracks Public Information (PI) Plan.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

ACHIEVED GOAL

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS

Fails to keep Board informed about Board-determined
Keeps Board informed about Board-determined pertinent
Meets Achieved Goal PLUS the District is lauded both
pertinent issues, with regard to the operation of the District; issues; AND meets periodically with Board member to
locally and nationally for its increased positive visibility and
OR fails to proactively and periodically meet with Board
identify, confirm, and address priorities; AND delivers
reputation.
member to identify, confirm, and address priorities; OR fails presentations in local and national venues; AND meets with
to deliver presentations in local and national venues; OR
regional leaders; AND continues FasTracks PI Plan going
fails to meet with regional leaders for the benefit of the
forward that emphasizes project openings and service plans
District; OR fails to continue FasTracks PI Plan going
for 2016.
forward that emphasizes project openings and service plans
for 2016.

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if NI or EE):

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

ACHIEVED GOAL

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if NI or EE):

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

4

Packet Pg. 307

TASK GOALS
TASK GOAL #1: Fiscal sustainability.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

ACHIEVED GOAL

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS

GM fails to fully identify and budget increased O&M costs GM fully identifies and budgets increased O&M costs
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of
associated with new corridors; OR fails to monitor the
associated with new corridors; AND monitors the financial the following:
financial impact of the new fare structure; OR fails to
impact of the new fare structure; AND continues
- Improves Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fares program
continue collabortive efforts with the low income task force collabortive efforts with the low income task force and Non- distribution channels; OR
and Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fares program; OR fails to Profit Agency Reduced Fares program; AND continues to
- Implements a third party parking pilot program; OR
continue to explore the identification of new revenue
explore the identification of new revenue sources; AND
- Revenue (excluding sales and use tax and grants) exceeds
sources; OR fails to complete assessment regarding parking completes assessment regarding parking revenue; AND
the 2016 forecast by 5%; OR
revenue; OR fails to implement Board-approved service
implement Board-approved service changes; AND continue - Receives a new capital grant award.
changes.
to work collaboratively with partners and stakeholders to
identify possible opportunities to enhance revenue and
reduce costs.

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if NI or EE):

TASK GOAL #2: Opening of five FasTracks Rail and BRT corridors in 2016.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

ACHIEVED GOAL

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS

GM fails to complete corridor construction on-time and
GM completes corridor construction on-time and within
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of
within budget for a reason that is within the control of the budget; AND completes integrated testing and pre-revenue the following:
GM; OR fails to complete integrated testing and pre-revenue testing; AND establishes and implements an activation team - Opens a corridor one month ahead of schedule: OR
testing; OR fails to establish and implement an activation
and process for each corridor; AND conducts a
Completes a corridor under the project budget by 5%; OR
team and process for each corridor; OR fails to conduct a
marketing/communication campaign including corridor
initiates a currently unfunded corridor or extension.
marketing/communication campaign including corridor
partners to inform the public of special events associated
partners to inform the public of special events associated
with openings and service plans; AND completes service
with openings and service plans; OR fails to complete
plans integrating bus operations; AND addresses staffing
service plans integrating bus operations; OR fails to address needs within RTD and reviews staffing of Eagle project with
staffing needs within RTD and fails to review staffing of
Concessionaire.
Eagle project with Concessionaire.

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

5

Packet Pg. 308

TASK GOALS (Con't)
TASK GOAL #3: Technology.

NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

ACHIEVED GOAL

EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS

GM fails to assess cybersecurity for vulnerabilities and fails GM assesses cybersecurity for vulnerabilities and completes Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of
to complete practical mitigations; OR fails to complete real- practical mitigations; AND completes real-time information the following:
time information delivery for bus operations and initiates
delivery for bus operations and initiates work toward real- Completes real-time information for light rail; OR
work toward real-time information for light rail and
time information for light rail and commuter rail; AND seeks Completes real-time information for commuter rail; OR
commuter rail; OR fails to seek to innovatively partner with to innovatively partner with private sector by developing an Third party app using RTD real-time information is
private sector by developing an outreach plan regarding real- outreach plan regarding real-time information availability;
developed. Completes real-time information for light time information availability; OR fails to continue to explore AND continues to explore and offer information in customer- - One or more of Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
and offer information in customer- facing mobile formats
facing mobile formats like Next Ride; AND completes
recommendations occur during rating period
like Next Ride; OR fails to complete enhancements to trip
enhancements to trip planner; AND SmartCard program is
planner; OR fails to advance SmartCard program.
fully implemented.

COMMENTS TO JUSTIFY (if NI or EE):

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

6

Packet Pg. 309

TASK GOALS (Con't)

Performance Improvement Plan (when needed)

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

7

Packet Pg. 310

General Manager Name: David A. Genova

UNEXPECTED AND/OR EXCEPTIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

8

Packet Pg. 311

GENERAL MANAGER COMMENTS

General Manager Signature:
Date

General Manager Name: David A. Genova

The General Manager signature indicates that the evaluation has been discussed with him, but does not necessarily mean that the General
Manager agrees with all aspects of the evaluation.
Chair, Goal Setting Committee:
Date
Chair, General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee:
Date
Chair, Board of Directors:
Date

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

9

Packet Pg. 312

Employee Name: David A. Genova

Review Period: 1/1/2016 - 1/1/2017

PICTURE OF PERFORMANCE
Exceeded Expectations

Achieved Goal

GOALS

Needs Improvement

Attachment: Committee Approved Copy of GM performance appraisal with Core and Task goals for 2016

13.H.a

10

Packet Pg. 313

13.H.b

Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and CEO

Date:

May 4, 2015

Subject:

Proposed Tactical Plans for Strategic Goals/Priorities from March 21, 2015
RTD Board/Senior Leadership Team (SLT) Advance

On March 21, 2015, Board members and the SLT convened an Advance to mutually
discuss and agree upon strategic goals for the agency. These goals/priorities are meant to
drive the 2016 budget cycle. For example, goals established at the 2014 Advance are
driving the 2015 budget cycle and priorities.
The Board will recall that we came out of the Advance with three priorities:




Fiscal Sustainability (Tactical Plan at Enclosure #1)
Openings of Rail and BRT (Tactical Plan at Enclosure #2)
Technology (Tactical Plan at Enclosure #3)

In accordance with the Board Policy on the Goal Setting process for the General Manager,
the General Manager is to present the agreed upon goals/priorities with his tactical plan to
implement those priorities/goals at the May 12, 2015 Planning and Development
Committee.
I will present the tactical plan at the Planning and Development Committee on Tuesday,
May 12, 2015. In advance of the short presentation at the Committee, please find
attached the proposed tactical plans that staff proposes to implement to realize the
strategic goals set forth.
As always, we welcome your input/feedback.

Attachment: 2015-05-04 Tactical Plan Memo (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

Our mission:
To meet our constituents’ present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean,
reliable, courteous, accessible and cost-effective service throughout the District.

Enclosures: As stated
cc: Senior Leadership Team

Packet Pg. 314

13.H.c

GM TACTICAL PLAN FOR 2016
Strategic Goal #1
Fiscal Sustainability

Throughout its history, RTD has had to adapt its service levels and capital programs to
different financial conditions due to the variability in sales and use taxes, its largest source
of revenue. One of the strategic goals established by the RTD Board for 2016 relates to
fiscal sustainability in order for RTD to continue to achieve its mission to meet its
constituents' transportation needs in a cost-effective manner. As a part of this goal, the
Board and staff identified specific focus areas:










Increased Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Costs
Impact of the New Fare Structure
Affordable Fares
Identification of New Revenue Sources
Increase in Existing Revenue Streams
Parking Revenue
Service Levels, Revenue Rates and Utilization of Unused Capacity (Ridership)
Partnerships
Avoiding “Mission Creep”

Each of these areas will be addressed in 2016, with the overall intent of planning for the
delivery of fiscally sustainable and innovative financial plans for the six-year time horizon
of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP), and through the 2040 horizon year of the DRCOG
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP).
Increased Operations and Maintenance (O&M) costs
Increases in O&M costs will occur in 2016 from two primary areas: 1.) inflation and wage
increases, and 2.) growth in service from five corridor openings.
Those openings include the East Line, Gold Line, Northwest Rail Segment, I-225 and Bus
Rapid Transit (BRT). As revenue service begins on each of these elements, expenditures
will shift from capital to operations.
RTD has included these projected operating costs in its financial forecasts. RTD is carefully
planning the allocation of resources for 2016. For a significant portion of those costs,
RTD has budget certainty in that contracted service payments will be made to the
concessionaire for the East Line, Gold Line and Northwest Rail Segment. The O&M costs
for I-225 and BRT have been projected according to historical O&M costs.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 1 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

Background

Additional projections for O&M support services such as Security, Administration, Finance,
etc., are also being carefully evaluated. Many of the supporting costs are shared by both
the Base System and FasTracks. An allocation methodology and identification of direct
costs will be applied to ensure costs are recorded where incurred. Because the Base
1

Packet Pg. 315

13.H.c

System and FasTracks are evaluated separately as a result of FasTracks funding not being
available for the Base System, RTD will focus its efforts to apply costs to each fund
accurately with a utilization-based allocation. This will also provide for more accurate
financial analysis of results and performance.

Impact of New Fare Structure
The financial impact of the proposed new fare structure has been carefully evaluated by
the fare study contractor CH2M. The proposed changes have been modeled using
expected ridership and fare program participation data to provide reasonable assurance
that the SBP fare revenue targets are met to ensure fiscal sustainability. Staff will closely
monitor and analyze the fare collection results upon implementation.
Affordable Fares
“Affordable fares” has been identified as a strong concern by certain parties through the
fare study public participation process.
The financial impact of affordable fares,
specifically defined as discounted fares for low income residents, is being modeled under
different proposed scenarios. Note that any increased fare reductions or expanded
distribution of discounted fare products beyond RTD’s long-standing Non-Profit Agency
Reduced Fares program will have additional, negative revenue impacts to RTD. RTD is
working closely with low-income resident interest groups to identify possible changes or
additions to the Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fares program that can balance the needs of
low-income riders with ensuring that any negative impact to revenue can be mitigated for
fiscal sustainability. The financial impact of these scenarios is being modeled and, if
implemented, will be closely monitored and analyzed.
Identification of New Revenue Sources
In accordance with the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force recommendations, RTD will
continue to pursue new or additional revenue opportunities including:




Corporate sponsorships and naming rights contracts
Evaluation of monetizing parking facilities
Evaluation of fare pass programs

In addition, RTD will continue to explore revenue sources such as the sale of assets and
easements not required for transit purposes, leasing and contracting for the operation and
management of assets that can be operated by third parties at a cost savings, and
developing shared facilities where RTD and developers can combine resources and reduce
costs for both site development and operating costs. RTD will also continue to assess
other program funding or acceleration opportunities as they arise, such as federal and
state grants.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 1 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

Fiscal sustainability for these costs will be monitored closely to ensure they fall within the
forecasted amounts.

2

Packet Pg. 316

13.H.c

Increase in Existing Revenue Streams






Implementation of proposed fare structure to meet SBP target
Increased sales tax revenue through exemption parity with the State
Continuing partnership with the Department of Revenue to verify tax compliance
and reporting of RTD sales/use tax collections
Enhanced collection of ridership data for pass pricing

Parking Revenue
In 2015, RTD received an unsolicited proposal to monetize parking. RTD determined that
the proposal had merit and, with Board Approval, decided to further investigate the
possibility of producing additional revenue from its parking facilities.
Currently RTD has a contractor that provides parking services in which RTD shares in
parking revenues above a certain threshold. With the addition of several new parking
facilities in 2016, RTD will further evaluate their most efficient financial use.
Several concerns must be considered including private use, federal interest, and elasticity
of fares and parking rates. RTD is undertaking additional internal evaluation of the
financial potential of these facilities.
Service Levels and Revenue Rates
RTD staff and Board continue to focus on RTD's mission to meet our constituents' present
and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean reliable, courteous, accessible and
cost-effective service throughout the District. These services include fixed route bus
service, light rail service, paratransit services for the general public (Call-n-Ride) and transit
services for individuals with disabilities (Access-a-Ride) as well as services provided by
partner agencies and supported by RTD (van pools, etc.). Staff will continue to work with
the Board of Directors to ensure that services are delivered in an efficient manner while
also recognizing the financial realities facing the organization.
In order to ensure that services continue to meet the ever-changing needs of our
community, RTD implements service changes three times per year: in January, May when
school lets out, and in August when school resumes. The timing of these changes is set
forth in RTD’s Collective Bargaining Agreement with represented employees. Under normal
circumstances, these service changes or "run boards" in our jargon, allow RTD to adjust
the levels of transit service provided to better correspond to the level of service needed by
our customers. These service changes also provide the means by which RTD adjusts levels
of service to conform to prevailing economic conditions and responds to changes in
operating conditions.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 1 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

RTD will continue to pursue opportunities to increase existing revenue streams including:

3

Packet Pg. 317

13.H.c









The performance of these services (measured by ridership) based upon RTD Service
Standards (ridership per hour of transit service provided, subsidy per passenger
boarding, etc.);
The effects of the potential changes on the overall transit network (system
impacts) and on transit dependent riders;
The availability of reasonable alternative transit services;
The ability to enhance services when possible given financial circumstances;
The distribution/impacts of such changes throughout the District and throughout
the RTD Family of Services (Local, Express, Regional, Call-n-ride, LRT, etc.); and
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act to be sure that services are equitably provided
without regard to race, color, national origin, etc.

In addition to the above referenced service planning considerations, RTD Service Planning
staff works closely with RTD Finance to ensure that service adjustments reflect the
financial realities of the organization. This includes the impact on revenue rates.
The consideration of these issues provides a systematic, objective and rational framework
within which RTD staff can evaluate potential changes in services in order to maximize
ridership and optimize the use of RTD's resources.
In many ways, "service standards" could also be referred to as "expectations" as they
reflect what RTD's performance expectations are in terms of ridership and subsidy for a
service (route) to be considered successful. The purpose of the standards is to help
identify routes that are most in need of service changes in order to maximize ridership and
optimize the use of RTD's resources.
In applying these standards, RTD's guidelines call for routes falling below the lowest 10%
productivity threshold based on either subsidy per passenger boarding or passengers
boarding per service hour, or below the lowest 25% productivity threshold for both
measures, to be evaluated for marketing, revision, or as a last resort, possible elimination.
These are not the sole criteria as RTD's service standards also take into account services
provided to areas of high transit dependency, and RTD staff also considers the existence
of alternative transit services in a given area when developing service recommendations.
The process to implement service changes consists of:





RTD staff develops a set of initial service change recommendations for
consideration;
RTD staff presents the initial recommendations to the Board of Directors and
presents these initial recommendations to the public for public comment;
RTD staff holds public meetings in areas throughout the District that would
potentially be impacted by the proposed changes;
RTD staff develops a final set of proposed service changes based on the initial
recommendations and potential modifications based on public comment, and;

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 1 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

When evaluating potential changes in RTD services, RTD staff considers several factors.
Primary among these service planning guiding principles are:

4

Packet Pg. 318

13.H.c



RTD staff presents the final service change proposals to the Board of Directors for
final approval and/or modification by Board action.

In order to support the Board of Directors in their policy deliberations, staff provides
detailed ridership information, cost information and revenue information to help identify the
rationale behind service change recommendations. These recommendations are discussed
at both Operations/Customer Services Committee meetings and Board meetings. Staff also
presents annual service evaluation reports to the Board of Directors to help communicate
the performance of the various services provided by RTD. Staff also stands prepared to
assist with the conduct of any workshops/study sessions on this topic that might be
desired by the Board of Directors.
Partnerships
RTD will continue to identify opportunities to enhance its revenues, reduce its capital and
operating costs, and provide new and innovative long-term financing opportunities through
partnerships. Potential strategies to do so include, but are not limited to, the following:













Pursuit of partnerships with FasTracks stakeholders to obtain additional local match
funds to complete FasTracks corridors
Implementation of private public partnerships proposals for FasTracks, and for other
projects that provide benefits to RTD and fit within the financial plans
Completion of FTA New Starts process and local participation for the Southeast Rail
extension
Contracting to provide O&M services on the North Metro Rail Line
Pursuit of a long-term solution to maintaining and operating on the 16th Street Mall
Endorsing and supporting efforts to collect sales tax revenues on internet sales
Leasing and contracting for the operation and management of assets that can be
operated by third parties at a cost savings, such as parking facilities
Development of shared facilities including parking, transfer centers, plazas,
walkways and bike-facilities at transit oriented or joint development projects where
RTD and developers can combine resources and reduce costs for site development
and amenities and operating cost
Sale of assets and easements that do not interfere with existing or future RTD
operations
Sale of other assets not required for transit purposes
Continued pursuit of federal and state competitive grants as opportunities arise

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 1 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

The entire service change process usually takes a period of 3-4 months from the time of
development of the initial service change proposal until implementation of the service
adjustments.

Avoiding “Mission Creep”
In meeting the Board’s goal of Fiscal Sustainability, RTD will focus on its core mission “To
meet our constituents’ present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean,
reliable, courteous, accessible and cost-effective service throughout the District”. As
5

Packet Pg. 319

13.H.c

such, RTD will avoid efforts that extend beyond its mission.

Based on the Regional Transportation Plan prepared by DRCOG and the goals and
objectives adopted by the Board of Directors, RTD develops its six-year SBP each year.
The SBP is a fiscally constrained plan which presents aggregate projected service levels
and capital and expense projects expected to be undertaken for the next six years.
Projects are evaluated based on their relative costs and benefits, how well they meet the
RTD mission statement, and these projects are constrained to operate within the forecast
of revenues available for their completion and operation. The first year of the SBP capital
and operating program serves as the basis for the preparation of the annual budget.
During the development of the SBP and Budget, RTD staff will provide the Board with
relevant information and deliver frequent updates. The Board is given the opportunity to
offer early and substantive input into the development of RTD's budget plans. Once the
SBP and Budget are adopted by the Board, RTD staff will maintain controls throughout the
year and deliver the service as approved by the Board.
The FasTracks Team conducts an annual program evaluation (APE) of scope, schedule,
costs and revenues to modify the program as necessary to meet goals. The APE allows the
agency to address trends and to make necessary modifications to the program while
keeping our commitment to be fiscally responsible, efficient and cost-effective. The
process allows RTD to be proactive in making prudent management decisions and
establishing strategies for cost containment, value engineering and innovation to complete
the program as soon as possible. In addition, in 2014 DRCOG has extended the time
horizon of the RTP from 2035 to 2040. As part of that process, RTD will be re-examining
its financial plan for the completion of FasTracks to identify other opportunities to
complete additional projects within the extended time horizon of the RTP.
RTD will continue to explore cost savings as part of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
recommendations as follows: 1) service optimization to match the cost of services
provided with available funding sources, 2) technology and energy innovation that involves
lighting upgrades and energy efficiency in building systems expected to produce
quantifiable cost savings, and 3) partnerships and privatizations that could include such
items as privatizing routes and administrative and operational functions to reduce
expenses. Finally, RTD will manage its financial condition by 1) reducing the volatility of
sales and use tax projections by continuing its contract with the CU-Leeds School of
Business for improved quarterly sales and use tax forecasting, and 2) adhering to its fund
balance policy based on recommended best practices and to include a Board-appropriated
fund and capital acquisition fund.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 1 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

RTD will develop and implement a Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and annual Budget for
Board approval. These plans will include innovative approaches to balance the SBP and
Budget in order to sustain service delivery and implement to the degree possible the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force recommendations and the General Manager 2016 goals as
established by the Board.

6

Packet Pg. 320

13.H.d

GM TACTICAL PLAN FOR 2016
Strategic Goal #2
Opening of Five FasTracks Rail and BRT Corridors in 2016

The FasTracks program currently has over $5.5 billion committed for completed and
ongoing construction projects. In 2016, five (5) major corridors are planned to open for
revenue service to the public. These include the US36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project;
the East Rail Line to Denver International Airport; the Northwest Electrified Segment
(NWES) to Westminster; the Gold Line to Arvada and Wheat Ridge; and the I-225/Aurora
Line through the City of Aurora.
Opening so many lines in a single year is unprecedented and will require a full commitment
of staff and resources to achieve successfully. Accomplishment of this task will
underscore the success of FasTracks and continue to build confidence of the public in
RTD’s ability to deliver. The following areas are addressed:







Complete projects on time and within budget
Complete integrated testing and pre-revenue testing
Rail activation
Marketing/Special events/communication/community partnering
Service planning/bus operations/integration
Staffing, internal and external

The description below provides the tactical approaches to accomplishing this goal.
Complete Corridor Construction Projects On-Time and Within Budget
RTD has a tradition of completing its corridor construction projects on-time and within
budget. This is a commitment to the public and communities that has proven to be very
successful. Obviously, the construction projects must be completed before opening the
projects to passengers. These construction projects are vast undertakings, which have
thousands of inter-related tasks needing to be done within tight timeframes.
RTD assigns project teams to closely oversee the progress of each project. These multidisciplinary teams work closely with the contractors, stakeholders and state and federal
agencies to address any obstacles to completion. They also oversee contractor schedules,
monitor the budget and remaining contingency and oversee safety and quality. We will
assure that adequate resources are maintained on the project teams as the work is
completed.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 2 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

Background

Complete Integrated Testing and Pre-Revenue Testing
Once a train is ready to move under its own power, then the integrated testing period can
begin. Integrated testing involves the checkout of more than one system (such as vehicle,
signals and traction power) in the actual operating environment. It generally involves

1
Packet Pg. 321

13.H.d

Pre-revenue testing is done after integrated testing is complete. It closely replicates actual
operating conditions without passengers to verify and make adjustments to the projected
schedules. The testing also provides the opportunity for train operating and maintenance
personnel to acquire familiarity, training and certification on the new alignments. The RTD
maintainers utilize this opportunity to conduct pre-opening inspections and adjustments
which provides additional safety and familiarity of the equipment. Thus, a robust training
program (both classroom and field) is provided for transportation and maintenance
personnel.
A robust safety certification process is also to be implemented by RTD. Each safety
certifiable element is tracked from design, through construction and testing to assure that
it meets safety criteria. The system will not be opened to the public unless the safety
certification process has demonstrated acceptable progress. A safety certification plan
guides the overall process.
RTD assigns oversight teams to monitor and conduct the requisite testing. On the Eagle
P3 project, the concessionaire – DTP – will be performing the testing program which also
includes the acceptance of the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF). However,
RTD will maintain a strong oversight role to assure that DTP achieves RTD, federal and
state requirements. In addition, the contract provides for an Independent Engineer who
provides the final sign-off that the system is ready to open to the public.
On the I-225 project, RTD personnel will be directly involved in the testing program.
Hiring and training programs are implemented to assure that adequate personnel are
available for the new services.
Rail Activation
Five (5) rail/BRT corridors are scheduled to open in 2016. To assure the planning and
implementation of each corridor is a smooth and successful process; an activation team
for each corridor has been established to monitor the progress of start-up planning and
implementation. Each activation team is responsible for coordinating and monitoring the
project tasks/ sub-tasks, staff assignments, and timelines as developed and approved by
the RTD General Manager and Senior Leadership Team and is directed to achieving the
ultimate goal of implementing each corridor on time and within budget. The activation
teams include Senior Managers and representatives from each department within the
agency.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 2 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

dynamic testing with the movement of train(s). Each integrated test is closely monitored
to assure that it meets the criteria and safety requirements for a successful test under the
direction of a test director. One of the more significant sets of integrated tests is those at
each grade crossing. Each at-grade crossing is tested to assure that proper warning times
for bells and gates are provided, that any adjacent traffic signals preempt according to
standards, that crossing gates operate properly and that all Public Utility Commission
requirements are achieved. Each track in each direction must be tested. Each test result is
fully documented.

2
Packet Pg. 322

13.H.d

The second year of the activation process begins to focus on systems integration testing
as the project construction nears completion.
All systems integration tasks and
responsibilities for each department are included in each activation process.
The
implementation of the Integrated Testing Plan (ITP) is monitored through the activation
process including monitoring all safety and security items that need to be certified for
operations acceptance of the project. The IT components needed for each project are
tracked through the activation process leading up to opening day and training of new
personnel for each department is also tracked. The activation teams will also begin
preparing for the opening of each of the corridors. Station festivities, the volunteer effort
and safety and security measures for the grand opening events will be discussed through
the activation processes.
Marketing /Special Events/Communication/Community Partnering
The combined impact on our resources and employees of properly promoting to the
general public, engaging our stakeholders and elected officials, and educating would-be
passengers regarding the five new major transit investments opening in a single year
presents unique challenges and opportunities. These new services will spread out across
approximately half of the Denver Metro area, representing significant infrastructure
improvements for the municipalities through which they travel. RTD has previously
enjoyed at least one year between our major transit project openings, allowing for
lengthened public awareness campaigns and “ramp up” prior to the actual openings.
To accommodate the short timeframes between the five 2016 openings, RTD will engage
in very focused and targeted public relations and media relations efforts, including earned
media through community, local, regional, national and international outlets,
advertisements in publications that participate in our advertising trades, electronic
newsletters, website ads and publications, and social media, among other efforts.
Increased levels of education, above and beyond what is currently underway, about safety
around rail service, how to access the new services, and general public awareness of RTD
delivering on the voter-approved investment are key components to the opening activities.
Considerable energy is focused on ensuring that messaging, public engagement and public
information is created, provided and communicated via numerous channels to properly
reach all parties concerned.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 2 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

The activation process for each corridor began approximately two (2) years before the
estimated grand opening date. The first year of the activation process focuses on budget,
staffing, and the development of the bus and rail service plans. The construction schedule
is monitored as the projects move closer to integrated testing. Staffing and resources for
integrated testing are discussed through the activation process. The recruitment process
is also monitored through the activation process.

In order to support the required level of public events – the cumulative event lineup for
2016 will include a total of twenty events comprising at least sixteen event days – RTD
will mobilize a large number of volunteer ambassadors, RTD employees who volunteer
their time to directly help educate the public on how to use the new transit improvement.
Early estimates for volunteer shifts are projecting a need for up to 4,000 volunteer shifts

3
Packet Pg. 323

13.H.d

staffed by up to 700 actual volunteers; nearly triple the amount for our largest previous
events.

RTD has established successful benchmarks for these public activities over the past
several years. For example, attendance for our public events, free ride days and station
parties has been tremendous, and we are planning to meet and even exceed RTD’s
traditional levels of success with creative solutions that will positively impact each of the
grand openings.
Service Planning/Bus Operations/Integration
Opening of five (5) new corridors also demands major resources from Bus Operations.
First, the US36 project will be RTD’s first BRT operation (Flatiron Flyer). Major work is
already underway in terms of schedule planning, bus procurement, marketing and branding
and public outreach. In 2016, the corridor will see full implementation of BRT service on
US36. This will include operation on the managed lanes, bus on shoulder operation and
new stations. Training of bus operators for this new service will be a major focus, as well
monitoring of the new operation for any identified improvements.
Also, there will be major changes in bus operations throughout the new rail corridors.
Many bus routes will be re-oriented to serve the new rail stations and optimize intermodal
connections. This requires revamping both routes and schedules. These new service
plans are developed and presented to the public, which provides input to the proposed
new services, these service plans are then presented to the RTD Board for approval. A
major training program is implemented to orient bus operators to the new routes and
schedules.
The operation of the new services will be closely monitored after
implementation to identify any desirable adjustments.
Many new rail operations personnel come from bus operations. For new rail corridors, this
typically requires bus operations to backfill these positions. Therefore, hiring and training
programs are expanded in bus operations to assure that service is not negatively impacted
by the transition of personnel.
Staffing, Internal and External
Each department affected by the project openings has developed staffing and contracting
plans to identify staff and resources necessary for successful opening, operation and
maintenance. These plans are included in the development of the SBP and the 2016
budget processes. The plans are also tracked in the project activation processes.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 2 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

A dedicated grand opening team will provide the appropriate focus to be able to direct
effort and energy toward the planning and coordination between RTD departments and
partners for proper event implementation, government and public relations, media
relations, overall public outreach and promotional efforts as required for each new line.

4
Packet Pg. 324

13.H.e

GM TACTICAL PLAN FOR 2016
Strategic Goal #3
Technology

Technology is integral to the day-to-day and strategic operations of RTD. It is Information
Technology's (IT) mission to work in partnership with the public and RTD business units to
provide innovative, effective, technology solutions that meet and advance RTD's strategic
goals. RTD strives to stay ahead of technological solutions the business units and the
public expect. It is also Communication’s mission to enhance communications with the
public through the progressive use of effective, reliable, and immediate digital
communication channels to inform and engage riders. To that end, several projects are
planned for 2016 that will increase effectiveness of RTD staff, improve services to our
riders, and provide information to the RTD management team that will enhance decision
making. The Board of Directors identified the following areas as goals for Technology:







Security
Private Partnering (Innovation)
Customer Facing
Prioritized Resources
Enhance Services
Partnerships to Address:
o Last Mile
o Smart Technology/Smart Cards
o Integration and Advancement (Holistic Approach)
o Internal

Security
IT is expanding on its 2015 advances in IT security governance, awareness campaigns,
training, cross-agency collaboration, and cyber-incident response to perform industry
regulatory compliance and security best practice assessments for targeted critical, at-risk
areas of the business, such as systems that process credit cards, the website, and control
systems networks. Additionally, IT continues to mature RTD’s internal proactive security
stance by enabling procedural controls such as architectural reviews, access control
management and testing/auditing; and technical controls such as network segregation and
patch management that are designed to provide better wide-spread defense and incident
detection across the networked computer systems.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 3 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

Background

IT is fully engaged with RTD Security in the roll out of new networks for capturing video at
sites throughout the district, as well as adding new DVRs on all new buses. Other
components of these efforts include the creation of an environment that allows sharing of
video, data, and live resources with other agencies for incident response and crime
prevention configured to network security best practices.

1

Packet Pg. 325

13.H.e

Private Partnering (Innovation)

RTD is pursuing a private partnership with Xerox to host RTD’s Smart Card system. The
primary benefits of this are twofold 1) to provide industry expertise and support and 2)
create internal efficiencies by avoiding additional costs of staffing and infrastructure
support.
After implementation of Real Time Passenger Information, RTD plans to make information
available for private parties to create mobile applications that will provide real-time arrival
and departure information for bus passengers through personal mobile devices. The Digital
Communications Team will be developing an outreach plan to inform and engage mobile
application developers, and promote the availability of the new applications to riders.
As a part of the Eagle P3 project, IT is working closely with Denver Transit Partners in the
building of two new radio towers for communications. These radio resources are joint
use. RTD provided FCC licensing, requirements for the design and build of the sites, and
extended partnerships through RTD with other agencies that participate in the shared radio
and communications resources throughout the region.
RTD has interfaced with a number of local and national cybersecurity providers to bring in
top-talent to assess the network systems and recommend updates that provide RTD with
the best security return on investment. RTD has also become more involved with the
APTA Controls and Communication Systems Working Group and Enterprise IT Security
Working Groups, Infragard, Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center, and other
private and public organizations for cybersecurity alerting, incident management, best
practices, and information/intelligence sharing.
Customer Facing
Providing riders with current and accurate information to enhance the rider's experience is
a key area of investment in 2016. The Communications Department is dedicated to
providing new and innovative approaches to providing timely, quality information to our
passengers. These efforts include:
Rider Facing Mobile Technologies:
The use of mobile devices to consume information is continually increasing. In 2014,
people using mobile devices to access information on RTD-Denver.com surpassed those
using a desktop or laptop (64% of all traffic came from a mobile device). In response to
this trend, the RTD website was redesigned in 2015 by the Digital Communications Team
to be mobile friendly. Communications and IT will continue to partner to explore and offer
information in formats conducive to mobile consumption. This will be accomplished
through mobile applications, automated phone systems, text messaging, and public
signage.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 3 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

In 2015, IT developed a roadmap on the strategic use of the Cloud to provide improved
systems and functionality at less cost to RTD. The actual implementation will take a
number of years.

2

Packet Pg. 326

13.H.e

Enhanced Traveler Information:
Providing predictive information regarding arrival or departure times for buses will improve
rider's experience. The first phase implemented at the end of 2015 includes reporting the
anticipated number of minutes before a bus will arrive or depart from a certain stop or
location and provides real-time information on the location of the bus. The second phase
occurring in 2016 involves providing this information for commuter rail and light rail
(dependent on funding approvals). Communications has identified and will partner with IT
to provide real-time information for 3rd party developers, Google maps, and Passenger
Information Display Signs. Also launching in 2016 will be a new mobile-friendly application
on the RTD website called Next Ride. This feature-rich application crafted in-house by the
Digital Communications Team and built in conjunction with IT will allow riders to find upto-the-minute real-time information for their stop, route, vehicle, current location, and
more.
Trip Planner:
IT started building the new and improved Trip Planner application in 2015 in conjunction
with Communications. This effort will finish in 2016 and will provide trip planning
information that is optimized for mobile devices. IT will also build a robust trip planning
application that matches the information being delivered to riders that will improve the
operations and efficiency of the customer contact center. A true collaborative effort, the
Digital Communications Team will be tasked with developing the user interface to match
RTD’s digital brand, creating a quality user experience, optimizing the interface to be
mobile-friendly, and integrating the application into the RTD website.
RTD-Denver.com Web Site:
The existing RTD website will be upgraded and migrated to a new platform in 2016 by the
Digital Communications Team in Marketing. This will provide Communications with the
ability to publish up-to-the-minute updates, enhance search engine optimization, provide
the ability for more users to contribute content in an easy to use interface, offer social
integration/commenting, and allow for a full-featured blog, among many other benefits.
The new platform will be the standard for all upcoming public-facing websites built
internally, and will allow RTD to move off of outdated legacy systems. New features and
enhancements will be added to the website over the coming years to enhance engagement
and provide a better experience for riders. The enhanced web experience will improve
information availability, improve internal processes, improve customer loyalty, drive
revenue, and increase campaign effectiveness.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 3 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

Passenger Information Display Systems (PIDS) included in base projects have been
expanded to further the customer experience in RTD stations and Park-n-Ride facilities. An
additional set of PIDS at Denver Union Station and additions at Oak Street Station Park-nRide are planned for 2015-2016. FasTracks projects with PIDS components requiring
specifications, designs, and network integration include East Line (DIA bus roadway) and
US36 BRT with passenger shelters at BRT stops and bus gates at the new Boulder
Junction at Depot Square.

3

Packet Pg. 327

13.H.e

Prioritized Resources
RTD's business depends on reliable and accurate systems for accounting, inventory
control, security, human resources, payroll, email, procurement, communications, and
more. This requires a significant investment in infrastructure and resources including items
such as: data centers, servers, networks, desktops, databases, applications, mobile
devices, and more. 2016 efforts with an IT focus will include:
Data Network:
IT will implement corporate network upgrades that provide a solid and reliable
technological foundation for all RTD systems.
Operations and Maintenance:
Nearly 70% of all technology efforts and investments go toward keeping-the-lights-on. In
2016 there will be continued attention to technology operations, sustainable activities,
ongoing maintenance, support, and upgrades of mission critical systems. IT will begin
migrating some systems to Cloud based, managed services solutions to help cut costs,
stay up to date on technology, and assist IT with their disaster recovery plans.
Enterprise Content Management:
In 2014, RTD began a comprehensive review of its Enterprise Content Management
Systems. This entails reviewing the current systems, outlining a district-wide taxonomy to
ensure compatibility across all systems, and developing a governance process and policies
regarding enterprise content management storage and retention. In 2016 and beyond,
efforts will focus on further defining taxonomy, approving and enforcing governance
procedures and policies, consolidating content, and defining and implementing retention
policies.
Enhance Services
RTD maintains and advances the use of technology to conduct its business more
efficiently and effectively. There are several technology tools that are being applied in
2016 to this end. These efforts will include:

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 3 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

Website Promotions for 2016 Openings:
The Digital Communications Team will be launching specialized sub-sites for each of the
major openings in 2016 on RTD-Denver.com. The digital promotions will start months
before each opening to entice, inform, and influence riders and non-riders to use the new
commuter rail lines opening throughout the year. Each site will include service information,
fares, interactive maps, latest news, trip planning, and Grand Opening Event information.
Social media and email blasts will also be used to engage riders in digital campaigns and
giveaways for the openings.

Business Intelligence:
Business intelligence was implemented in 2014 with a limited, "out of the box" approach
and was further developed in 2015 by providing dashboards and high level financial
information to the RTD Senior Leadership Team. IT will work with the business units to
4

Packet Pg. 328

13.H.e

Financial, Operations, and Ridership Data:
Expand RTD's business intelligence implementation to provide analysis, performance
management, benchmarking, predictive analysis, forecasting, ridership, day-to-day
operations, project accounting, and other analytics that will drive business value and
decision making. This will improve access to data for RTD management across the
organization.
State of Good Repair:
Continue to improve data collection, analysis, statistics, and reporting of information for
the State of Good Repair program.
SmartCard Reporting:
IT will expand existing SmartCard analytics to provide information that will improve and
sustain the day-to-day operations of the SmartCard program, enhance fraud detection and
analysis, and build and improve analytics for enforcement of smart media usage and
tracking.
Operator Self-Service Portal:
Enhance operations and driver efficiency by improving the capabilities of the Operator selfservice portal. The portal will provide information such as extra board assignments, shift
information, run numbers, headways, real-time information, and more. Real-time
information will be provided to the operators on this portal.
Partnerships to Address:
Last Mile:
IT met with DRCOG to investigate integrating RTD’s Trip Planner and real-time passenger
information with their “Interagency Traveler Information Coordination” project. This
involves making information available to the public regarding travel plans, bike and ride
options, ticketing, events, and more. An example of this can be found at
www.waytogo.org. IT will continue working with DRCOG in 2016 to explore this
opportunity.
Smart Technology/Smart Cards:
The SmartCard program went live in 2013 with deployment of over 300,000 EcoPass and
College Pass cards and over 100 platform validators. This technology provides riders with
an electronic media card they use to tap on to the bus or rail. It also provides RTD
management with information about ridership. Continued enhancements and additional
functionality include:


Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 3 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

further develop and take advantage of collecting and reporting on data from across the
enterprise.

Replace Handheld Smart Media Readers:
The Handheld Smart Media Readers will be replaced in late 2015 into 2016 due to
aging technology. Additionally, the current devices are large and difficult to hold.
Replacing the handhelds will increase adoption of use by fare inspectors and
5

Packet Pg. 329







provide more security should the device be lost or stolen.
Provide Wireless Connectivity for Handheld Smart Media Readers:
Today, handheld devices must be placed in their cradles in order to receive daily
updates. This is inefficient and requires additional steps by the fare inspectors.
Incorporating wireless updates on the handheld devices will improve the frequency
of updates, improve the ability to maintain the devices on the most current
software release, and make it easier for fare inspectors to perform the updates.
MyRide:
Much like a debit card, the MyRide program allows the use of a "Stored Value" on
a card to pay for a trip. The cost of that trip is debited against the prepaid card.
This reduces the product costs of the various fare programs and provides a service
to the rider. The pilot for this complex and major deployment is anticipated in 2015
with full rollout occurring in 2016.
Smart Card Portal Enhancements:
Seen as one of the key benefits to riders, IT and Marketing will be working
together to provide a more quality user experience on the Smart Card Portal prior to
the launch of MyRide. Enhancements to the portal have already been identified and
documented by the Digital Communications Team, Sales, and Customer Care to
allow for better internal processes and an optimal experience for riders managing
their cards via the Smart Card Portal.

Integration and Advancement (Holistic Approach):
Providing the technology tools to improve rider service, gain efficiencies and reduce cost is
a key focus for 2016. These efforts include:





SmartDrive:
Implementing Smart Drives on buses will help improve driver safety and
performance. This is an ongoing effort that continues into 2016. Smart Drive is a
simple camera system designed to capture 20 seconds of video and other vehicle
data surrounding an accident. It is being installed on RTD operated vehicles by the
bus maintenance group and will be maintained by IT’s Mobile Technologies Group.
IT is also providing resources for the collection of data in the garages via Wi-Fi.
Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD):
IT will work closely with Bus Dispatch to facilitate any minor changes and
modifications that might be recommended as this system matures.
Cloud Services:
IT will begin to implement the recommendations made in the 2015 Cloud Study
Assessment thereby reducing infrastructure costs, improving security, improving
efficiencies, and providing disaster recovery for those systems migrated to these
services.

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 3 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

13.H.e

Internal:
IT will continue to advance and mature the total quality management program that has
improved IT service delivery in several areas including service desk and desktop support. IT
will further the maturity of several processes and programs established in 2014-2015
including agile development processes, program management process, security programs,
service level agreements, change management, incident response protocols, and more.
6

Packet Pg. 330

Attachment: 2015-05-12 Goal 3 (2434 : Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals)

13.H.e

7

Packet Pg. 331

