Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, July 18, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 6:38 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:31 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:36 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

6:32 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Remote
Absent

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

6:35 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:35 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:36 PM
6:31 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:35 PM
6:34 PM
6:35 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

6:35 PM
6:35 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Director Folska was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Larry
Buter, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover,
Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Ali Imansepahi, Ann Marie IsaacHeslop, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh Jr., John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Brenden
Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Pranaya Shrestha, Lindsey Smith, Mark Tieman, Monica
Treipl-Harnke, Brian Welch, Susan Wood

Others Present:

William Gross, Michael Sakas, Jean Shreve, John Thompson, Bob
Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Resolution to Approve Refinancing for Interest Savings
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease
purchase agreement and related documents in connection with the partial
refinancing of the 2010A and 2015A Certificates of Participation.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 25, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments,
said that staff is planning to refund portions of series 10A and
2015A Certificates of Participation (COPs). He noted that
current low interest rates will allow RTD to refinance the COPs
for significant savings. He said that RTD will be refinancing
with JP Morgan Chase, and the proposal was also reviewed by
RTD’s investment advisor. He commented that the
transaction was deemed to be competitive and it also has
benefits such as not having to pay the credit rating agencies
for their fee. He said that over the next eight years, to 2025,
the savings would be $13 million. He added that the cost of
the issueance would be $200,000, but that is a minimal cost

when looking at the overall savings. He further noted that the
savings would be split between the Base system and
FasTracks.
Director Broom asked if there would be a substantial loss of
escrow.
Mr. Morgan said yes, and RTD will have to continue to pay
arbitrage, but the yield curve is pretty flat. He remarked that
the cost was netted out with the savings.
Director Lubow asked what was in it for the bank, and why
did other banks not make a similar offer.
Mr. Morgan said, that since banks are in the business of
loaning money, their benefit is the same as anyone else that
would participate in COPs, and they would earn interest
income of 2.5%.
Director Lubow further inquired as to why more banks were
not offering this or being competitive.
Mr. Morgan explained that in 2013, RTD found that most
banks would not be very competitive or interested. He said
that in 2016 JP Morgan Chase provided RTD a proposal they
felt would be a good fit for both entities. He added that it is
not always a good fit, but in this case, it did work out well.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer/Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, commented that not
all banks have the same portfolio. She stated that RTD had
received proposals in the past that did not work for RTD, but
this one just happened to be a match for both RTD and JP
Morgan Chase at this time.
Director Deadwyler remarked that she did not have any
questions, but she would vote in the affirmative for this item.
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska

C. Updates

• 3205 : SB17-267 Retail Marijuana Taxes (no backup)
Ms. McKillop stated that Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, would start off the conversation
and she would answer any budget questions.
Mr. Asphaug, stated that the title of SB267 was “Concerning the Sustainability of Rural
Colorado” and said that it was a 58-page long bill that had a lot of moving parts. He
explained that it has taken funds away from RTD, the Scientific and Cultural Facilities
District (SCFD), and hundreds of other tier three organizations. He noted that directly, this
has affected RTD to the amount of $500,000 a month. He stated that there is a large
number of agencies that are being impacted and from a legislative standpoint, and it looks
as if the move will be to address this at the next session, though there is discussion of a
special session. He remarked that, from a legal standpoint, RTD had met with attorneys
from SCFD to see if there is anything that can be done, but at this time, the agency is
keeping all of its options open. He noted that the best option at this time is to encourage
the legislature to have a special session.
Chair Hoy said that it was his understanding that if an organization asked the Governor to
call a special session, there may be a financial burden to the legislature. He said that he
would be in favor of paying for the special session if that were to happen.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, commented that RTD has
been in discussion with other special districts and there is no consensus at this point.
Chair Hoy asked if consensus was needed. He said that $500,000 a month is worth the
cost of a special session and added that, if the rest of the special districts do not want to
go along, RTD can lead the effort without them.
Director Lubow asked if there was any pushback on making the correction.
Ms. McKillop stated that most people are in favor of making the correction, but staff
anticipates there will be some pushback.
Director Tisdale said that if RTD waits until January or later to address this problem, by
then it will be a $3 million plus problem, and if the legislature does not act, it will be
another $1 million every two months. He remarked that RTD had an expectation that this

funding would continue, especially since there was no discussion that it would be
discontinued. He echoed Chair Hoy’s sentiment to bring this up and said that it is the
Governor’s role to step up and have the legislature take care of this. He added that RTD
should not have to ask for a special session and he hoped everyone is called and that they
show up to fix this.
Director Solano stated for reference that the Illinois Legislature’s special session cost
$48,000 a day. He stated that, even if the special session took three days, RTD would
still be ahead.
Committee Chair Menten commented that she had read the entire bill and it contains a lot
of parts. She noted that the bill was very controversial and it would be even more so
when it is opened back up for discussion. She added that she was interested to know
what the regulations on calling a special session were in regards to deadlines.
Ms. McKillop said that the Senate has to have at least three days to pass a bill, and it
would cost $20,000 to $30,000 per day. She added that there are rules around the title,
and how it would be set up. She further noted that the special session should only cover
one issue, but at this point in time she could not be sure that would happen.
Mr. Asphaug added that RTD had not made any statement for or against the special
session.
Director Williams said that RTD recently joint a conglomeration by joining Mobility Choice.
She asked if RTD could ask them to pull their leverage to get a special session called.
Director Broom remarked that RTD pays a lobbying firm for their services and RTD should
ask them for their advice. He said that in some sense it would be like opening Pandora’s
box, but the agency will still run into the same issue if the matter is discussed in January.
He said that, if a special session is called, the microscope would be on the legislature to
correct the problem and nothing else.
Director Francone commented that the Board had the discretion to hire outside counsel for
matters of the Board. She asked if there was any comment from Sherry Ellebracht, RTD’s
Government Relations Officer, and possible solutions.
General Manager Genova stated that Ms. Ellebracht was out this week to visit Colorado’s
delegation in Washington, D.C.
Mr. Reed said that the media had reported an entire litany of possible outcomes. He
stated that administrative fixes seem to be off the table, but there have been discussions
about the possibility of the special districts asking for a special session. He added RTD
does not have good info or intel at this time, and this would be better served during an offline conversation.

Director Francone inquired if that was something that Brandeberry-McKenna (BBMK) could
be tasked with, and if they could explore options. She added that Chair Hoy was right and
the thought that the bill would be fixed come January is presumptuous. She further noted
that it will not be a quick and easy solution.
General Manager Genova stated that he has daily conversations with BBMK, but there are
more issues to discuss. He said that he would prepare a briefing with them for the Board.
Director Tisdale said his strong stated need of a special session is subject to advice
received from RTD’s lobbyists. He noted that the only two possibilities are either it was a
mistake, or someone had a sinister motive, and in either case, no one will fess up. He
stated that this is and will be challenging, so counsel and RTD’s lobbyists should inform
the Board on how best to proceed.
Director Deadwyler commented that she agrees with everything that has been said and
she is going to sit back and see what happens.

• SBP Update
Ms. McKillop stated that she would hand out larger versions of the charts so that the
Board would be able to read them better.
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget & Financial Analysis, remarked that in the
June Financial Administration and Audit Committee, staff presented the first draft and
initial assumptions of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). She noted that the approach in this
second draft was to identify the minimum must have needs, minimum fleet needs, and any
remaining projects permitted.
Ms. Scarpino stated that the SPB:
•

•

Includes only service and projects funded from the Base System 0.6% sales
and use tax, and operating activity from FasTracks Operations funded by
0.4% tax
FasTracks future expense and projects are included separately in the
FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation (APE) financial plan

SBP Variables are:
Uncontrollable
• Sales/use tax revenue
• Fuel price volatility
• Inflation rate
• Nature/speed of economic growth
• Interest rates on debt

•
•

Ridership
Grant revenue/Federal appropriations

Controllable
• Fare rate increases/decreases
• Service levels
• Operating costs/expense projects
• Capital investment in projects
• Fund balance development
2018-2023 SBP Revenue Assumptions include:
Passenger Fare Revenue
• Assume fare rate increase in 2019 and 2022 per Board policy
• Re-allocation of fare revenue between Base and FasTracks in 2017 Amended
Budget
Sales and Use Taxes
• 2018-2023 SBP uses forecasted data from CU Leeds School of Business
March 2017 forecast
• Actual year-to-date April collections: 5.2% over prior year
• Over 6-year SBP term, negative difference between baseline forecast and
low forecast is $188 million for Base System
o
Including 2017, the negative difference is $208 million
Federal Grants
• Recognized as awarded and assumed to increase at rate of inflation or as
identified
2018-2023

SBP Expenditures Assumptions are:

Operating and Maintenance Costs
• Inflated at Moody’s Denver-Boulder CPI rates (2.5% in 2018)
• National Moody’s CPI rate applied to fuel costs (2.8% in 2018)
• Includes one-time expense projects
o
Scoring methodology used as starting point
o
Only minimum/must-have projects in all years
• Includes CBA
Fuel Costs
• Diesel budgeted at $1.69 gallon (2017 lock price) and escalated at national
CPI
o
Diesel futures estimate for 2018 is $1.80/gallon at this time
o
Volatile pricing given current global situation
• Gasoline budgeted at $2.65/gallon and escalated at national CPI

Debt Service
• Interest and debt payments based on debt amortization schedules
• Use all of capital replacement fund to offset debt needs in future
• Combination of existing COP proceeds and PAYGO to fund fleet purchases
Capital Expenditures
• Based on replacement schedule
o
Scoring methodology used as starting point
• Only minimum/must-have projects in all years
• Includes fleet
SBP Minimum/Must-Have Projects are:
•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•

Initial project requests totaled over $725M
Minimum must-have projects (excluding fleet) identified for 2018-2023 (in
2017 dollars)
Baseline is minimum projects to maintain operating service, meet debt
service, and allow for building of Board-appropriated reserve and operating
reserve
o
Additional project reductions will be necessary to balance SBP
New projects will be programmed in SBP as cash flow allows
Projects may be added to the SBP if sales tax revenue improves to support
the project expenditures, or excess fund balance at year-end
Specific deferred projects to proceed with available funds will be
subsequently identified based on project prioritization method and SLT
review
Capital replacement fund used to fund capital purchases in 2018
Unrestricted operating reserve created for first time in 2017 with available
funds, reaches $20M in 2019, increases to $40M in 2023
Unrestricted year-end fund balance maintained at nominal minimum $2M
each year

Ms. Scarpino said that the SBP cash flow in lines 11 and 19 carry the minimum must have
projects and feet needs to date. She noted that graphically, the 2018 Base sources of
funds include $697.7 million and the use of funds equate to $694.4 million.
SBP Opportunities and Challenges are:
Opportunities
• Board strategic priorities and GM tactical plans
• Potential fuel lock for favorable outcome
• Prudent development of fund balances
Challenges

•
•
•
•
•
•

Sales/use tax volatility
Fuel price uncertainty
State of Good Repair commitments and needs
Project prioritization and project deferral
Financing capacity, funding constraints
Increased O&M costs, Base burden

Ms. Scarpino stated that the next steps would be:
•
•
•
•

August 8th – Presentation of SBP update and FasTracks APE update to
FAAC
August 22nd – Board Study Session on 2018 Budget
September 12th – Presentation of final SBP and APE for recommendation to
full Board
September 26th – Board adoption of 2018-2023 SBP and APE

Ms. McKillop remarked that this update was different from last month, and staff pushed
out the adoption of the SPB until September.
Director Broom noted that staff estimated gas at $2.69 a gallon, and asked if RTD pays
gas taxes.
Mr. Abel commented that it depended on what was being reviewed. He said that for
contracted services RTD pays federal and state taxes for gasoline because in some cases
they are buying at the pump. He stated that fuel that RTD purchases directly does not
have taxes.
Director Lubow said that the SBP revenue assumptions showed that the actual revenue
percentage collected was 5.4%, whereas the baseline was 4%. She asked if it would be
correct to say that, if RTD is having financial issues, it is from expenses and not from the
collection of sales and use taxes.
Ms. McKillop said that assumption was incorrect. She reminded the Board that $30
million was cut out of the budget during the amended budget process and while staff can
examine all of the operating costs, sales and use taxes are the largest factor.

• APE Update
Ms. McKillop commented that Susan Cohen would begin the presentation, and Bruce Abel
would answer any questions the Board may have with regards to service.
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager of Finance, stated that the program overview contains:
•

FasTracks Program Status

•
•
•
•

FasTracks Program Cost
APE Issues
Financial Plan Update
Next Steps

Ms. Cohen added that RTD committed to a $5.6 billion program through 2020. She
stated that as of now, total program costs through 2020 is stil $5.6 billion and there is
also an additional $700,000 for a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) after study.
Ms. Cohen said that changes for the 2017 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) include:
•

•

Project budget savings
o
Free MetroRide budget reduced to amount approved by Board in June
2017
o
Program wide capital expenditure reductions
Increased program wide expense for project closeout and program extension to
2020

Ape Issues are:
North Metro Project
• Construction schedule
• Cost to complete construction
• Future operating and maintenance costs
APE Financial Plan Changes Since June include:
•
•

•

Costs updated to latest projections
FISA balance drawn down to replenish unrestricted fund balance
o
Drawdowns begin in 2020
o
Full balance drawn by 2022
Capital Acquisition Reserve balance drawn down in 2020

Considerations to Reduce Shortfall are:
•

•

Potential service revisions
• N Line
• R Line
• W Line
Internal budget review on all FasTracks projects

Next Steps contain:
•

August 1st – Board Budget Workshop - APE and Financial Plan

•
•
•
•

August 8th – Presentation of APE update, Financial Plan, and SBP update to
FAAC
August 22nd – Board Study Session
September 12th – Presentation of final SBP, APE, and financial plan for
recommendation to full Board
September 26th – Board adoption of APE, financial plan, and 2018-2023 SBP

Director Anderson commented that on the miscellaneous FasTracks slide, there is a line
item titled Program-wide Railroad Right of Way (ROW), and inquired what that was for.
Ms. Cohen stated that RTD had to acquire ROW beyond the terminus to which RTD was
building the Gold Line, and those costs were attributed so the FasTracks ROW.
Director Lubow said that one of the potential service reductions is for the N Line, which
has not started yet.
Mr. Abel explained that staff had reviewed all of the alternatives, and wanted to share
everything that was explored to see what makes the most sense.
Committee Chair Menten said that considerations to reduce the shortfall are only being
discussed as potential solutions at this time and that nothing had been identified as
definite changes.
Mr. Abel added that construction costs are one-time costs and operating costs are
ongoing. He stated that staff is evaluating every alternative to review cost saving
measures.
Committee Chair Menten remarked that previously ridership for individual rail lines were
separated and she asked for that to be separated again so that the Board can know how
each line is performing.
Mr. Abel stated that staff does maintain ridership numbers for the vital lines because it is
important for internal information. He said that information and analysis would be
provided to the Board.

• May 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, stated that these were the financials for May. He noted that
these figures were being compared to the amended budget that the Board adopted in
June. He further noted that, before the amended budget, the approved budget was
showing a lot of red. He stated that year to date, sales and use taxes are up 2.5% and in
comparison to 2016, RTD is up $14.2 million, 6.5%. He remarked that 2016 compared to
2015, RTD is up 4%. He explained that staff had budgeted a 4% increase for 2017 and
the numbers are running close to that figure. He noted that ridership is flat compared to

budget, however, the numbers are up 2.1% since last year. He remarked that fare revenue
is better than expected.
Director Anderson said that at a recent meeting, a well-known transportation guru from
Lakewood was in attendance and he wanted to know why it cost him $9.00 to get to the
airport from the closest station.
Mr. Abel said that the airport is a hard fare zone, and the trip from any station to the
airport is $9.00.
General Manager Genova said that, no matter how far someone rides, $9.00 is the airport
fare. He noted that if someone is on the University of Colorado A Line and they are not
going to the airport, the zone structures apply.
Committee Chair Menten said that some people think that $9.00 is a deal, since the
original fare was $13.00.
Director Walker noted that he was in Chicago last month and the fare for their train was
$3.00 each way. He stated that the sight-seeing and people watching was unbelievable,
but it took forever to get to and from the airport. He said that the value for the University
of Colorado A Line is not necessarily the length, but the time.
Director Deadwyler commented that she gets a lot of comments from people that have a
difficult time trying to figure out the zones and the fare structure. She asked what RTD
was doing as an agency to make it easier for people to catch the train. She said that a lot
of complaints she receives are from people that ride from the Peoria Station to the airport.
General Manager Genova said that RTD went through a significant process to establish the
new fare rates in 2015. He noted that one of those rates was the airport rate and there
was a lot of discussion to determine the fare type and rate. He noted that the Board
collectively settled on a flat fare and during that fare structure study, staff also considered
getting rid of the zones, but the public did not feel that was equitable. In addition to
reducing the rail zones by one, the bus fares were reduced to local and regional. He said
that staff will instruct security to make sure they understand how the fare zones work and
staff will perform additional outreach efforts. He added that all of RTD’s maps and
information explains the zone structure.
Director Solano asked if the airport fee was good for 24 hours.
General Manager Genova stated that the ticket would be good for the service day, and is
not a 24-hour pass.
Director Williams said that there are some advantages to the ticket, and her friends think it
is a great way to see the sights and the city.

Director Tisdale noted that sooner or later RTD will need to add a club car to the
University of Colorado A Line.

• SmartCard Project Update
Tonya Anderson, Manager of Electronic Fare Operations, said that the MyRide portal sales
are holding steady and in June there were 1,000 reloads, and for July, so far there have
been 900. She noted that the retail point of sales expansion went live on July 21, 2017,
at King Soopers and they are only reloading cards at this time. She stated that the
platform validator screen tests are underway and they are being tested with either a fan,
UV film, or both. She said that 15 of the 18 have had no issues, but three of them are
faulty. She stated that Conduent is investigating the three validators, but they are
considering modifying them for airflow and replacing the screens.
Director Francone thanked the entire team and said that she has heard nothing but
enthusiastic and positive comments for the MyRide card.
Ms. McKillop remarked that RTD is getting more and more interest with the cards. The
said that the City and County of Denver purchased cards and loaded funds for students,
and they have issued over 1,500 cards to date. She added that they are working through
RTD’s existing system and they are not benefiting from additional discounts, but they are
excited about this program as is staff.
Committee Chair Menten noted that the Board was asked to provide more discounts to
Denver’s students and the solution with the MyRide cards does not require any additional
work.
Committee Chair Menten asked if staff received negative feedback on the 24-48 hour
reload period.
Ms. McKillop said that staff has informed people that, if they are in instant need, they
have options to load fund to their cards immediately.
General Manager Genova stated that the delay is only when people reload their cards using
the online portal.
Director Deadwyler said that people who have MyRide cards seem to like them.

• Quarterly Audit Update
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Internal & IT Audit Manager, said that she and Kevin Parker,
Senior Auditor would present information on areas that needed explanation. She noted

that Mr. Parker would discuss the MyRide card implementation as he had been auditing
that for a number of years.
Mr. Parker noted that the main concern was Payment Card Industry Compliance (PCI) and
disaster recovery testing. He said that those along with a few other items are scheduled
for 2017.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop stated that the overtime and extra shift report was completed and a full
copy will be provided to the Board. She noted that Audit has worked tirelessly to come to
an agreement on different actions that management would time, and timelines for
implementation. She added that the FasTracks staffing audit is underway and it is very
complex and detail oriented.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop stated that, in regards to cyber security, RTD has come a long way, but
there is still a lot of work that needs to be done to be cyber-resilient in order to fully
address the inevitable cyber security incident.
Director Deadwyler asked about the status of the Access-a-Ride audit.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said that Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride audits will begin in August. She
said that Audit will review the original objectives, and as of now, Audit is preparing for the
planning portion.
Director Broom asked if someone could shut down RTD’s rail lines by hacking RTD’s
system.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said yes, but RTD is making a huge effort to detect and prevent attacks
and the approach is very proactive. She added that Sheri Le, Manager of Cybersecurity is
doing a great job, but she cannot prevent every attack.
Director Anderson thanked staff for the hard job that they do. She stated that, at the risk
of being politically incorrect, she thought internal audits were always a great management
tool and it helps the General Manager and all department heads do a better job managing
their departments. She stated that, as a Board member, she wants to know if someone
made a mistake and wants to know if Audit finds anything. She added that she was
concerned with cybersecurity, and it was also concerning to discuss it in an open meeting,
and said that she would speak off-line.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone said that the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee met earlier in the day and finalized the tasks and goals for 2018. She said that
the information would be included in the Board packet on Friday and noted that the survey

would be emailed soon as well. She asked everyone to complete the survey and to be
prepared on Tuesday with any questions they might have.
Director Walker commented that he serves on the Leadership APTA Committee. He noted
that Lacey Bell was chosen for 2018 and offered his congratulations.
General Manager Genova thanked the Board for the employee appreciation event on
Saturday, July 15th and said that it was incredible for all the employees.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 8, 2017
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

