Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, May 10, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:29 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Absent

6:30 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

6:30 PM

Larry Hoy

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:28 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present

6:29 PM
6:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:30 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:28 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

7:04 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:31 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:30 PM

Director Anderson participated via phone. Director Sisk arrived late and Director Lasater
left early. Directors Deadwyler and Folska were absent.
Staff Present :

Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Heather Copp, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Cory Granrud,
Sherman Hamilton, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Ray McNamara, Thomas Papadinoff,
Mace Pemberton, Michael Peters, Scott Reed, Henry Stopplecamp,
John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Michael
Washington.

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Jill Marcy, Julie McKenna, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• Pass Program Working Group
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors approves and adopts the Pass Program Working Group
objective, commitments and guiding principles.
Motion:

Director Lasater made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 31, 2016
Board Meeting.
Chair Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, said he
had Michael Washington, Title VI Manager, with him this
evening. He explained that the purpose of this
recommendation was to set the Pass Program Working
Group’s objective, commitments and guiding principles. He
stated this is a spate discussion from those that staff has been
having with Mile High Connects and the Affordable Fare Task
Force. The Pass Program Working Group (Working Group) will
be focused on RTD’s existing pass programs. He indicated the
dialog with the Affordable Fare Task force has continued and
staff will be briefing the Board on that status in the near
future.

Michael Washington reviewed a Power Point presentation with
the Board that is available in the May 10, 2016 Planning and
Development Committee Agenda Packet. He reminded the
Board that the Working Group came at the request of the
Board when the EcoPass pricing changes were made in
September of 2015. He stated the objective of the Working
Group is to improve RTD’s pass programs to better serve
customers of the District. To achieve this objective, the
Working Group will fulfill the following commitments: (1)
revisit and refine goals for each individual pass program, (2)
refine pricing and administration of each pass program, and (3)
recommend pass program policy revisions to the Board of
Directors.
Michael Washington outlined the Guiding Principles for the
Working Group as follows:
 Cost Effective Administration
 Equitable Access
 Improve Customer Convenience
 Increase Ridership
 Meet Strategic Budget Plan Revenue Targets
 Promote Greater Brand Loyalty
 Provide RTD Revenue Certainty
 Simplify Passenger-Operator Interaction
Michael Washington indicated after the Board approval of the
objective, commitments and guiding principles, staff hopes to
begin Working Group interviews over the summer with
initiation of Stakeholder Meetings in the fall.
Director Lubow noted that she thinks it is great that the
Working Group is being created. She remembered seeing that
this evaluation would be a fairly long process as we acquire
data from Smart Cards and asked if that was accurate.
Michael Washington stated the Working Group would begin
meeting in the fall and continue throughout 2017.
Director Lubow stressed the importance of Title VI and equity
issues. She stated it is extremely important to make sure
everyone is treated fairly. She hopes people from the
Affordable Fares Task Force and low income community will
be incorporated into this Working Group.

Director Bagley recognized that the purpose of this discussion
is not a focus on specific pass programs, but as he is receiving
many questions, he wonders about the availability of the
Neighborhood and Community EcoPass programs in other
locations besides Boulder. It is his understanding that these
programs are only available in Boulder. Michael Washington
stated that was not correct. Currently the apartment complex
near the University Station participates in the Neighborhood
EcoPass Program. He said additionally, there were more
communities participating but have since dropped out;
however, staff has also heard concern about being eligible to
participate in those programs so it is something the Working
Group will address. Director Bagley believes it needs to be
more robustly available because 99.9% of the program is
focused on Boulder.
Committee Chair James asked if it was a correct statement
that the Working Group will be comprehensive enough to visit
the EcoPasses and their functionality, cost effectiveness, etc.
Michael Washington said that was absolutely correct.
Director Menten noted that some time ago she suggested
putting stickers on light rail vehicles informing riders that they
need to tap their Smart Cards. She wondered if anything
further had been done with that idea as people are not tapping
like they should. She stated without taps RTD does not have
accurate ridership data. Michael Washington said one of the
things the Working Group would be looking at was fare
enforcement. General Manager Genova explained that staff’s
collective thought is that we need to work on methods to get
people to tap before they get to the train. If riders see the
stickers as they are boarding the train they are not going to go
back to tap. Director Menten believes it is still an inexpensive
way to remind riders to tap.
Director Menten asked how many trains have automatic
passenger counters (APC). General Manager Genova indicated
40 out of 172 trains currently have APC.
Director Menten asked for more details about what was meant
by promoting greater brand loyalty as a guiding principle.
Michael Washington explained that many of the pass programs
afford riders some savings if they use the pass at a higher
frequency. He believes it is important for the passengers to
see this benefit and hopefully become more loyal to RTD.

Director Francone said she was pleased to see this review of
the pass programs. She commented that RTD can have the
greatest pass program in the world, but if no one knows about
it, it is not going to be very effective. She would like to see a
concerted marketing and public information effort to ensure
people know about these programs.
Director Francone stated she would be looking for real
ridership data when it came to evaluation of the pass program
pricing. She shared that she has received comments from
several universities who were considering offering the
CollegePasses for the summer but were very disappointed to
learn we did not have ridership data. She acknowledged there
is an issue with data collection but thinks it is key for the
Working Group to move forward.
Chair Tobiassen asked staff how they plan to ensure a diverse
composition for the Working Group so the stakeholders are not
all from Boulder. He wondered how they will reach riders that
are not currently represented through the EcoPass programs
such as those along the Colfax corridor. Michael Washington
stated that staff would be looking for a diverse geographic
representation as well as a diverse group of existing and
potential EcoPass customers.
Chair Tobiassen shared he was recently in Amsterdam and got
to ride their public transportation system. He pointed out that
on their system riders need to tap on and tap off. He said if a
rider forgets to tap off 6 times the card is disabled. He
commented that the price of the day pass was pretty good
compared to ours. Michael Washington indicated the Working
Group would be looking at different enforcement options and
considering the tradeoffs of each to determine if changes need
to be made.
Director Hoy pointed out that the EcoPass is predominately
focused on large employers. His understanding is that 80% of
the employers in Colorado have around 15 employees. He
does not believe RTD reaches out to small employers. He
wonders if there is any potential for aggregating employers
based on industry, business association, etc. to reach
companies that could not qualify on their own. General
Manager Genova stated there are employers of all different
sizes that participate in the program.

General Manager Genova shared that staff has been having
ongoing meetings with various individuals at DIA about making
the EcoPass available to all employees. He noted there are a
lot of complexities to this, especially on the airport side. He
said staff has also been approached by Boulder County about
doing a county wide EcoPass and wondered how it might be
priced. He noted while that is a short question it is very
complicated to come up with an answer and staff is currently
analyzing how that might work. He said the City of Lafayette
has asked staff to consider something similar as well as
something comparable to the fare buy-up in Longmont. He
stated staff gets many different questions about how pass
programs could work in different ways so it is something that
needs to be considered moving forward.
Committee Chair James noted that all methodologies are on
the table at least for examination. General Manager Genova
stated that was correct if it was an existing pass program.
The Working Group will not be looking at new forms of
passes.
Director Walker shared that he has participated in three of the
pass programs offered by RTD. He noted many of the guiding
principles focused on the customer; however, in his experience
part of the success of the pass programs will fall on the
employers to promote them as well. He has worked for one
employer that had very high ridership while another employer
did not. He explained that the employer with high ridership
really encouraged participation.
Director Bagley believes any information garnered in
considering EcoPasses for Boulder County and the City of
Lafayette should also be made available to every county, local
government, etc. within the District so they can understand
what it would take should they want to do an EcoPass
program. He believes this would be received very well by our
jurisdictions.
Director Anderson agreed with Director Bagley that this
information should be made available to everyone. She noted
that the City of Arvada is very interested in EcoPasses with
the upcoming Gold Line opening. She wants this to be a fair
and open discussion and hopes staff will find a way to be
more inclusive of all communities.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Archuleta, Bagley, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Chuck
Sisk
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Regional Air Quality Council (RAQC) Grant Summary
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Senior Architect, reviewed a Power Point presentation
with the Board that is available in the May 10, 2016 Planning and
Development Committee Meeting Agenda Packet. He shared with the Board
that in 2014 RTD was awarded a Regional Air Quality Council (RAQC) Grant
for the purchase of Plugin Hybrid-Electric Vehicles (PHEVs) and Electric
Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE). Through direction from the Senior
Leadership Team a pilot program was created to establish a baseline for
EVSE usage at the Central Park Park-n-Ride (Central Park) as well as to
incorporate two PHEVs and one EVSE at the Elati Light Rail Facility. As part
of the pilot at Central Park, there would be no changes to the Parking
Management Plan, no additional parking fees and no electricity resale. He
said staff hopes to use the pilot program to make recommendations to the
Board for future policy approval.
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz noted there were 410,000 PHEVs sold between 2008
and 2015 with the United States representing 33% of the global stock. He
indicated as PHEVs become more popular RTD will see a demand for
charging stations at our Park-n-Rides. The goal of the pilot program is to
develop a policy that makes sense for RTD to address this need.
Director Archuleta inquired if there was a universal standard for the plug-in
interface. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz explained there were two types of plugs.
One is called the universal plug and the other type is specific to Tesla
vehicles; however, Tesla also includes an adapter that will fit into the
universal plug.
Director Francone asked for the amount of the grant. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz
stated it was a little under $30K.
Director Francone wondered why staff did not plan to resell the electricity at
the charging stations. Henry Stopplecamp explained that the projected cost
of the electricity was only $2K per year. Putting in the infrastructure for

credit card processing would end up costing more than $2K. He said after
the pilot program staff would determine what it would entail to charge for
electricity and how to structure the pricing.
Director Francone inquired as to the number of PHEVs in Colorado. Ignacio
Correa-Ortiz stated he did not have an exact number. The most prolific state
is California, then Oregon, then Washington. Colorado is very close behind
Washington and there are many charging stations currently throughout the
district.
Director Lubow expressed that this pilot program was very appealing to her.
She is very glad RTD is involved in trying to help this emerging technology.
Chair Tobiassen noted there are two spots for charging. He wondered how
it was determined who gets to uses the spaces. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz stated
it was on a first-come-first-served basis. There will be signs indicating that
there is a time limit for using the spots of 10 hours. He said in Los Angeles
they have found the average car is plugged in for 4.5 hours. Chair
Tobiassen expressed concern about this policy. He wonders what someone
will do if they have driven to the station expecting to plug-in and it is not
available. He suggested that perhaps in lieu of charging for electricity we
charge $45 per month, similar to our other reserved spaces. Henry
Stopplecamp pointed out that would provide charging for just a few
individuals within the District. The goal of the pilot program is to see how
the public uses the plug-ins on a wider scale.
Chair Tobiassen wondered what happens if a non-PHEV parks in the spots.
Henry Stopplecamp indicated people would be encouraged not to do that.
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz explained that was one of the reasons the pilot program
was implemented. It is staff’s hope that there will be enough information
gathered during the pilot to develop a parking management plan for the
charging stations. Chair Tobiassen commented that he already receives
complaints about the reserved parking space program and worries we are
just muddying the water more with the charging stations.
Director Sisk wondered how the location for the charging stations was
chosen. He thinks it would make sense to have them where there are the
most PHEVs in the District and wonders where that might be. Henry
Stopplecamp explained that the Central Park Park-n-Ride is brand new so it
was easy to put in the necessary infrastructure for a low dollar value. He
said it would be very expensive to put in the infrastructure in an existing
Park-n-Ride. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz noted that the Stapleton area is also a bit
of a desert for charging stations.
Director Menten wondered if it will be possible to measure how many

different, unique vehicles use the charging stations. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz
stated there would be license plate recognition technology that will identify
individual users, the length of time parked at the charging station and how
much electricity they receive. Each user has a key fob or card registered to
them to be able to get electricity. Director Menten noted that means there
is the opportunity to charge people to use the charging stations. Ignacio
Correa-Ortiz stated that was correct.
Director Hoy expressed concern that it will be hard to begin charging for
something that was initially given away. He wondered how staff plans to
deal with users who plug in and then go to work all day. He does not see
any incentive for these users to move their vehicles unless they are charged
a per-hour fee. He said there will be all sorts of problems that will need to
be ironed out but this seems like an obvious one. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz
stated Director Hoy has hit the nail on the head and this is one of the
reasons staff plans to come up with a recommendation for an hourly charge.
He believes this will be an issue that comes up during the pilot program.
Henry Stopplecamp commented that another goal of the pilot program is to
look at the behavior patterns of our patrons. After the pilot program if staff
cannot find solutions to the problems RTD is not out a lot of money and we
will have saved money on our own fleet so it is really a win-win.
Chair Tobiassen suggested that, as the program moves forward, staff
considers charging stations for electric bikes and scooters.
Director Menten noted the RAQC grant requires a five year duration. She
wondered if that means the pilot program had to continue for five years.
Henry Stopplecamp explained that RTD just needed to use the charging
stations for five years but there was no stipulation as to where we had to
put them. If the pilot program is deemed unsuccessful the charging stations
could be moved to another RTD facility.
Director Menten asked if the RAQC grant restricted RTD from charging for
electricity. Henry Stopplecamp stated it did not.
Committee Chair James commented that this pilot program suggests PHEVs
are the next big thing; however, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory
(NREL) is experimenting with hydrogen fuel cells, so perhaps that will be the
next big thing.

D. Other Matters
General Manager Genova shared that Ignacio Correa-Ortiz was just appointed to the
Denver Planning Board. He said he was looking forward to Ignacio’s service in this
role. Committee Chair James congratulated Ignacio on his appointment.

Bill Van Meter reminded the Board that Denver is one of seven finalists for the
Smart City Challenge. The United States Department of Transportation (USDOT)
has pledged up to $40 million to help one city define what it means to be a “Smart
City” and become the country’s first city to fully integrate innovative technologies
such as self-driving cars, connected vehicles and smart sensors, into their
transportation network. He shared that Denver is taking the lead on the project and
RTD staff is supporting their efforts. He indicated RTD would benefit from some of
the funds if Denver is successful. He said applications are due at the end of the
month and he expects the USDOT to select the winner in late summer.
Committee Chair James shared that recently the Rocky Mountain Institute had a
similar competition with Denver and Austin as finalists. He does not think Austin
looks very good because of a recent voter action causing Uber and Lyft to say they
were no longer going to operate there. He said it is easy to be optimistic about the
possibility that Denver will compete very well.
Director Archuleta said he recently attended a meeting in Sunnyside and the
commuters were very unhappy that the B-Line would not stop at the Elati Station.
Bill Van Meter explained that the Elati station would be served by much more
frequent service from the G-Line. He stated current models do not show a demand
for that connection until the line gets extended further north.
Director Francone thanked Director Menten, Henry Stopplecamp, Terry Emmons
and their staff for attending a meeting with Jeffco County Commissioner Rosier
about concerns over traffic issues that were created by the W-Line. She said it
was quite clear during the meeting that it was not an RTD issue but appreciated
staff’s professionalism.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 5, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:39 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

