2021 01-26
RTD Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening. I will now call to order the Tuesday, January 26
RTD Board meeting to order. We have convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I
would respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and to set your
ringers to silent.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit
rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the public participation
portion of tonight's agenda, please press star 3 now. You will be placed into a queue and I will
call on you at the appropriate time.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please announce your name and
wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion
to the record and to the proceedings.
Please note that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on this
evening, I will call on each Director in turn. So please know that your time to speak will come
and, if possible, please hold your comments until that time.
Usually, we will do a Pledge of Allegiance, but we will dispense with that since we are on the
phone. So with that in mind, I'd like to do roll call. Miss McManus, would you please call the
roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
JUDY WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent. We have a quorum.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Miss McManus.
A note regarding tonight's agenda. We had originally planned to host the Chair and the Vice
Chair of the RTD Accountability Committee, who were planning to join us to speak to the
committee's recently released draft report. They will instead be attending the committee meetings
next Tuesday night, when the meeting will be taking place via Zoom and we will be able to see a
presentation that they've prepared recently. We really hope you can join us for that.
The link to that meeting and the dial-in number will be published in the Communications and
Government Relations Committee agenda, as well as the Board's two-week calendar on the
following website, rtd-iqm2.com. Let me say that again, rtd.iqm2.com.
At RTD, safety's our core value and I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. So
just so you know, there is some good news in the fight against COVID-19. Vaccines are being
produced as quickly as possible and are rolling out to all 50 states. That said, this is not the time
to let down your guard, and we must all continue to follow the established health guidelines to
keep ourselves and our loved ones safe.
So please, continue to practice physical distancing of six feet, wear a mask at all times in public
spaces, get tested if you're experiencing symptoms or you have been in contact was someone
with the virus. Using your smartphone, you can also use the Colorado exposure notification tool.
And by opting in, your Android or iPhone device will share anonymous tokens with others in
your immediate vicinity via your phone's Bluetooth connection.
If another user you've been near tests positive for COVID-19 within a 14-day period, the service
will notify you. And if you test positive, you can easily and anonymously notify others to stop
the spread of COVID-19. These services do not collect personal information or location data and
everything is completely anonymous.
I'll mention this again. If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the
public participation portion of this evening's agenda, please press star 3 now. You will be placed
into a queue and I will call on you at the appropriate time.
This meeting's next agenda item is retiree awards. And as we've mentioned in December Board
meetings, we've been unable to give these amazing individuals the sendoff that they deserve in
our Blake Street boardroom.
Excuse me. Could everybody please put their phone on mute? Thank you.
But we would like to invite each and every one of our amazing retirees to join us once the Board
in-person meetings resume. At this time, I would like to open up the public participation period,
which is open to anyone who wants to speak. As is our custom, we will allow any of our elected
officials present to speak first, so they can get back to their own meetings and attend to their
business.

If you have indicated that you would like to speak to the Board by dialing star 3 on your phone,
I'll call your name in the order in which you signed up. Each speaker will be allowed three
minutes. And also, please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being audio
recorded. So if you do not wish to be audio recorded, then your comments will have to be
submitted in writing and you will not have the opportunity to speak this evening. If any speaker
has documentations or reference materials for the Board, please email those materials to the
Board Office at the following email address, board.office@rtd-denver.com.
The public participation period is not the appropriate venue for back and forth discussion
amongst speakers and the Board. So please do not anticipate that the Board will be responding to
questions and comments at this time. For this reason, it is important that you state your name and
address so that someone may follow up with you at a later time. For anyone just joining the call,
if you would like to speak to the Board, you can press star 3 on your phone now and you will be
placed into the queue. And when it's your turn to speak, I'll call on you by name.
Our first speaker this evening is Mr. Jamie Lewis. Mr. Lewis, if you wouldn't mind stating your
name and address, please.
JAMIE LEWIS: Hi. Again, my name is Jamie Lewis. I live at 1135 Broadway, Denver. I am the
transit advisor for the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition and I'm also the Chair for the
Advisory Committee for people with disabilities at RTD.
I wanted to take this time to thank RTD's staff and the Directors, past and present, for sustaining
transportation during the COVID pandemic. The distribution of vaccinations and recent COVID
relief dollars you received recently gives us hope and we are starting to see the light at the end of
the tunnel. However, we cannot let our guard down and must insist people continue to wear their
mask and continue social distancing.
Concerning Governor Polis' recent letter referencing a build out of rail to Boulder and
Longmont, we encourage that he and the legislature work with RTD to identify funding at the
local, state, and federal levels. I'm sure we would all like to see a rail to the north, but cannot
jeopardize the RTD system as a whole. In 2020, the Reimagine Committee, which I was a part
of, recommended that the existing RTD services need to improve before any expansion of
service was considered. This recommendation was based on pre-COVID operational
performance.
CCDC would like to be part of these discussions and look forward to working with all of you in
2021. Hopefully by this summer, we'll be able to see each other face to face. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next, we have Loren Hansen.
LOREN HANSEN: Howdy there. Loren Hansen, 1201 Kalamath Street, Denver, Colorado.
I would just like to really briefly thank past and present staff for their diligence and trying to
navigate the foibles of COVID. But at the same time, I'd like to qualify myself and encourage a
very heavy campaign to encourage and tell people to wear their masks over their nose and their

mouths. As the son of a nurse and the grandson of a World War II nurse, that is still alive, I
believe masks are a fundamental part of preventing disease. And unfortunately, I see a lot of
people doing what is colloquially called dick nosing, AK wearing their masks not over their
nose.
So if you could please, over the course of the next year, encourage people to wear their mask
over their nose and their mouth, that'd be appreciated. Thank you for your time and have a lovely
and warm evening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next, we have Deya Zavala.
DEYANIRA ZAVALA: Thank you, Madam Chair and-- Hi. Thank you, Madam Chair, and
good evening, members of the Board. My name is Deyanira Zavala and I live at 8079 Wolff
Street in Westminster. And I am the Executive Director of Mile High Connects.
I am here to provide public comment on the recommended action to conduct quarterly justice,
equity, diversity, and inclusion training. We applaud Directors Dishell, Bouquet, and Lewis for
bringing this forward and see this as a tremendous opportunity for RTD to continue to
collaborate with historically overlooked communities towards more meaningful community
engagement while addressing the historic disparities faced by Black, Brown, and other
communities of color. This agency-wide effort will certainly go beyond the Title VI analysis that
RTD regularly conducts to ensure racial and social justice is ultimately woven into the agency's
everyday practices.
Our hope is that RTD will continue and will seek out and invite diverse voices to participate in
the process alongside the agency and will proactively look to organizations such as ours and our
partners, including Denver Street's Partnership and several others, to hear the voices of
individuals not at the figurative table. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Shannon Hoffman.
SHANNON HOFFMAN: Hi. Good evening. Hi. Good evening. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
SHANNON HOFFMAN: OK. Thank you. My name is Shannon Hoffman. I live at 1226 North
Pearl Street, 80203. Really also wanted to say that I'm very happy to hear that there will be a
Zoom meeting next week. And I was really encouraged and I'm hopeful that that could be a
regular thing. I think these phone calls are very cumbersome for folks to access.
But I'm here to say that I am formerly a resident of RTD District B. And since moving, I'm now
a resident of RTD district A. I believe that I should be able to live in any part of this city and be
proud of my RTD Director. But unfortunately, that is not the case.
Tonight, I implore all of you to vote yes on the JEDI bill for justice, equity, diversity, and
inclusion. And paying attention to this Board over several months, it is evident to me the

members of this Board are in need of this training. And let me be clear. All of us, especially
people who look like me, a white woman, forever need diversity, equity, and inclusion training.
On this journey toward justice, there is no end point where you reach total wokeness. However,
in order to join this Underground Railroad, you need to show openness, the ability to receive
critique, and have a commitment toward progress and change.
I have seen resistance toward that progress and change from this Board. This group has
purposefully closed the doors of conversation with the community. Over the summer, we had
trouble finding the phone number to one of your Board meetings. I sat on the phone for hours
with your support representatives, spoke to multiple people, and when I was finally transferred to
a staff person who works as a liaison to the Board, I was told that the phone number, quote, fell
off the agenda.
This was told to me by the person who writes and posts the agenda. A phone number doesn't fall
off. Either you type it or you don't. And you know who stood up during that moment for
community to access that meeting? Shontel Lewis. And you know who continues to make RTD
meetings more accessible by streaming them? Shontel Lewis.
That is why I am here to call on Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede to make Shontel the Chair of the
Operations Committee. Board members who threaten to block constituents, which is a First
Amendment violation, even if it's on a personal platform like Twitter, Board members who
threaten to block constituents should not be the chair of the committee of Operations, which is to
make this Board an organization more accessible to the community.
So I ask you tonight to support Shontel's resolution and to make Shontel Lewis the chair of this
committee. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Molly McKinley.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Good evening, Board members. And thank you for holding a space for
public participation this evening. My name is Molly McKinley and I serve as the Vice Chair of
the Denver Street Partnership, a coalition of community organizations advocating for peoplefriendly streets in Denver.
I was planning to comment on two items, including the RTD Accountability Committee
preliminary report, but I will save those remarks for a future meeting. And so I would just briefly
like to thank Directors Lewis, Dishell, and Bouquet for bringing forward their justice, equity,
diversity, and inclusion proposal. The Denver Street Partnership strongly supports this. And I
encourage all of you to support this proposal, which will only strengthen the work of RTD and
its ability to serve the community. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Denise Boler.
DENISE BOLER: Yes. My name is Denise Boler. I live at 25 East Alameda Avenue in Denver,
Colorado, zip code 80209. And I also want to express my support for the implementation of the
JEDI initiative. I think it is a long time coming. I don't have all of the specifics. I understand that

it's going to be with Board members initially. But I am hoping that maybe it can be extended to
the rest of the community.
I'd also like to say since RTD is one entity and it is also has two other companies that also are
part of the system, when things are implemented or done, it would be nice to include all facets of
the transit system, because the entire transit system is not just RTD. There's two other companies
that provide service in the Denver metro area. And I think that they should be included in a lot of
the-- they should be included and consulted and at least spoken to for their thoughts and concerns
about what goes on at RTD, since they are indeed part of making this transit system work for
everyone.
And that's all I have to say. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Tess Daugherty.
TESS DAUGHERTY: Hi there. Thank you for holding this space tonight. Hi. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
TESS DAUGHERTY: OK, great. Hi. My name is Tess Daugherty. I live at 1801 Chestnut Place
in Denver. And I appreciate y'all having this space for us to voice our ideas and to participate.
I am here tonight to support Shontel Lewis's JEDI proposal, the justice, equity, diversity, and
inclusion. I just wanted to share some research that I've been doing around equity training. This
came out of the response by the police department regarding the independent monitor's report, in
which Chief Pazen had said that they are implementing similar trainings. And I brought up to
city council that not all equity trainings are created equal.
And in this research, they've found that on a very basic level, our brains require discretion and
judgment to operate and survive, interpret the world. And so we engage on an unconscious level
in regularly allowing our brains to inform our decisions based on these judgments. So there's no
such thing as like removing bias, right? And so as a white woman, I think I'd like to just echo
what Shannon was saying.
I think that it's academic peer reviewed research on bias for decades has revealed the nature of
bias as being one that's inseparable and escapable from the human experience. And it's about us
responding to that bias and being aware of it. And if we were not to pass this proposal, it would
be acting as if that didn't exist, right, and that we didn't need to learn and respond and reflect on
how bias is impacting the work we do, impacting our everyday lives, and impacting other people.
And additionally, researchers at Carnegie Mellon, the University of London, Boston University,
and the University of Colorado have released results from a study on bias and found that
harboring the belief that you are less biased than your peers actually has detrimental
consequences. So findings from their research suggest that believing you are less biased than
your peers has consequences on judgments and behaviors, such as accurately judging whether
advice is useful. And as discussed in their findings, those with a high bias blind spot, as they call

it, are more likely to ignore the advice of peers and experts and less likely to learn from trainings
around bias.
So I would just encourage you not to have a bias blind spot here and to vote yes. And I would
also like to just point out that any sort of silencing of constituent voices, as I know has been done
by members of the Board-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Shannon. Thank you. Your three minutes are up. I'm
sorry. But thank you for your comments.
Next, we have Lexanne Leonard.
LEXANNE LEONARD: Thank you. I'm Lexanne Leonard, 20445 East Crestline Place,
Centennial, Colorado.
A few weeks ago, I wrote an email to RTD District Directors. Then I was accidentally carbon
copied in a response email sent from Director Kate Williams to my Director, Julien Bouquet.
Thinking Director Bouquet had forwarded my email, Director Williams stated that she was
probably going to block me from her email. This made me wonder if silencing and isolating
constituents is a regular practice of the District Directors.
After a number of emails back and forth, Director Williams seemed confused in her last email,
stating that transit work is separate from equity and justice work. So I need to ask this. When
RTD hires security guards who brutally beat Denver artist Raverro Stinnett because they racially
profiled him to be unhoused and dangerous, how is your work not about equality and justice? If
you don't think that isolating and silencing the voice of a concerned and involved constituent isn't
equity and justice, then what is?
How about the constituents who don't have the privilege of my whiteness or the ability to make
their voices heard asking to be fairly served? How is your work not tied to equity and justice?
Planted in its being is a lifeline. It is equity and justice work.
So I ask two things this evening. Please pass Directors Lewis, Bouquet, and Dishell's JEDI
proposal. This is vital learning needed so RTD can do the job of serving all of us. And I ask that
Director Lewis be put into the Chair of Operations and Customer Services, removing Director
Williams from that position.
I do want to thank Directors Lewis and the newly elected Directors Bouquet, Dishell, and Sloan
for their kind responses and support through all of this. I leave you with a quote from Pete
Buttigieg, the nominee for our cabinet position of United States Secretary of Transportation. He
recently stated, I also recognize at their worst misguided policies and missed opportunities in
transportation reinforce racial and economic inequality by dividing or isolating neighborhoods
and undermining government's basic role of empowering Americans to thrive. Urge RTD to take
these words to heart. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have David Haken.

DAVID HAKEN: Hi. Good evening. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
DAVID HAKEN: All right. I'd like to start out by saying I support what has been said prior to
myself speaking. I think that Shontel Lewis should be the Chair. And Kate Williams, for
silencing her constituents, should be stepping down.
I want to speak on bias as well. And so that we make it very clear that voting yes on JEDI is very
important. I have a bias towards this Board, right? I came in here with knowing about Shontel
Lewis being silenced. I come in here knowing about you allowing Raverro Stinnett to be beaten
beyond belief, and then refuse to get rid of Allied Universal.
I come in here with that bias wanting to scream and yell and curse at you. I'm aware of my bias.
So I'm checking my bias. I'm not speaking that way. That's how I got better by being aware of
my bias. So hopefully, you all can take the trainings and learn about your bias. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Lucy James. And if you wouldn't
mind stating your name and address, please.
LUCY JAMES: Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
LUCY JAMES: OK. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. So my name is Lucy
James and I live North Marion Street in RTD District A.
So I'm talking tonight to add my support for Shontel Lewis as Chairperson of the Operations and
Customer Service Committee, because I can't think of a better woman for the job, as Kate
Williams pointed out herself in an email. She said, I know that Director Lewis sets a different
standard in many ways. Shontel Lewis would do a very good job representing and responding to
the people of Denver who rely on RTD every day because she's already shown herself
committed, brave, compassionate, and visionary. So that's number one.
Secondly, I would like to call upon the Board to vote yes for Shontel's resolution to provide the
JEDI training to all Board members. So as it's already been stated, this is so necessary for
everyone in our society, not just your. But it is definitely necessary for you because of who you
need to represent and who you need to serve.
Thirdly, I agree, you should drop the train to Boulder idea. Instead, improve the day to day
running of the RTD for those who need it and use it the most. Thank you. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next is Scott Ramming.
SCOTT RAMMING: --at 3356. Hello?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
SCOTT RAMMING: Yes. This is Scott Ramming at 3356 North Franklin Street, Denver, 80205.
Just want to be clear that I'm speaking on my own behalf and not on behalf of any employer.
And I've been following the discussions and perhaps controversy about the Northwest rail. And
that led me to look at the RTD- the FasTracks Unfinished Corridors Report several times and in
more detail. And as I was looking, I noticed that the Board doesn't seem to have taken any action
to endorse any of the scenarios as preferred. And in fact, some of the comments of some of the
Directors and GM/CEO Johnson seem to indicate the desire to expand the list of possible
scenarios, maybe to find something more optimal.
I also happened to come across a draft of DRCOG's 2050 Metro Vision Regional Transportation
plan, which is proceeding towards adoption with a network that is based on scenario 1B, which is
the peak period service plan for the B line to Longmont. There seems to be a lack of
transparency there. So while I'd encourage the Board to make a decision on a preferred
sequencing of the remaining corridors, I'd hope there'd be a full discussion and openness.
Another thing that surprised me in that report is that for the L Line extension, your service
planners weren't able to develop a schedule, because by running in the street from 30th and
Downing to 38th and Blake station, there's just so much congestion that's unpredictable. So I
would encourage you to conduct a study of other options to make the scheduling feasible. But I
have every faith in your schedulers. But this wasn't even them coming back and saying, we need,
say, four times as many trains just to maintain the schedule. It's an impossible task. So I think we
need to consider more options there.
Thank you for your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Maddie Hughes.
MADDIE HUGHES: Hi. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
MADDIE HUGHES: Thank you. Hi. My name is Maddie Hughes. I live at 1027 North
Washington Street. And I'm going to be honest, this is kind of a new thing for me. I am not
completely familiar with RTD business. But I was asked to speak on a situation and I can
definitely put my weight behind it.
So I just wanted to echo some of the other people who spoke tonight and ask Chair Angie
Rivera-Malpiede to make Shontel Lewis the Chair of the Operations and Customer Service
Committee for all of the reasons that people have already mentioned on this call. If she sets the
standard for the job, then she should be the person running it, I believe.

And also, I want to urge you to remove Kate Williams as Chair, because she has silenced her
constituents. And the fact that she wanted to block the emails of one of our members makes her
unfit for office. That should be clear to everybody.
And also want to call on you to vote yes for Shontel's resolution to provide JEDI, the justice,
equity, diversity, and inclusion training for Board members. This is 2021, so that should be clear
why it's important. But to remind you, we need to elevate marginalized voices. It's overdue. And
biases do exist. It's just a fact. And it's a fact that's true for everyone. And we all have to figure
out how to-- or willingly be part of a movement to look at those biases and to rid ourselves of
them.
So thank you for your time. I think that's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Monique Jackson.
MONIQUE JACKSON: Good evening. This is Monique Jackson. I am a driver out of Platte, and
I will be asking some questions for another driver. [COUGHS] Excuse me, apologize for that. I
am home sick.
So basically, with the amount of attacks that have been going on down at Union Station basically
towards our drivers, how many of you Board members have been to Union Station since the
pandemic has started and what type of plans do you have to make Union Station safer for us?
And on the buses, the announcement states that our passengers are supposed to exit through the
rear door. Why aren't there announcements stating that they're supposed to wear masks at all
times on the buses? Why is that not a thing? And why do we not have seats blocked off on the
local buses like the regional buses to help with social distancing? [COUGHS] Excuse me.
And what do you guys plan-- and how do you guys plan to enforce the wearing of the masks
outlined by the president for us to help with social distancing on the buses? And lastly. when can
we expect to get more hours and more services to the wellness center for us to be able to get in
and to use like the workout equipment? Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next I have Blair-- is it Stapp?
BLAIR SAGAN: Yeah. Blair Sagan is my name. And my address is-- can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can.
BLAIR SAGAN: OK, cool. My address tonight is 200 East Colfax Avenue, which is the capital,
because I live in my Jeep, which the city really doesn't make it easy to do in the midst of a global
pandemic.
I do want to note that there are some safe parking initiatives happening all around the metro area.
Denver has not signed on yet. But I believe that we should be able to park in alternative forms of

housing in this city and be safe doing so. So I don't know how much that really connects with
RTD. But yeah, just wanted to mention that.
And also, I wanted to say I appreciate y'all opening up for public comment, because that doesn't
happen all the time. And that says a lot. So thank you. It was a bit difficult to access this. But
yeah, I got through. So thank you.
And a little bit about me. I'm from Alabama. Been in Denver about eight years. And I am a
descendant of people who owned people, specifically Black folks. I had it confirmed recently,
because it was so recent that my grandparents were a part of it via tenant farming. I was born on
the third lap of a four lap race. And many folks of color were born at the start of the race.
And regarding the JEDI training, not only is JEDI an amazing name-- I want to shout out to that- but Shontel is an amazing leader. And she continually shows that she shows up for her
community. And as a Black woman, she knows adversity like we white folk don't. And so this
would be amazing for white folks to learn about. I believe that all white folks are racist by
nature, because that's the society of white supremacy in which we were raised in, you know. I
have my progressive thoughts all the time. And it's always a process of unlearning. No one is
perfect. And I think this would really help set a standard for the city.
And then one final note, as the bus driver just mentioned, bus drivers are one of the highest risk
frontline workers in this pandemic. And RTD has a responsibility to take every precaution of
safety measures that-- they need to take it seriously, you know. Like buses are going all over the
city, spreading COVID all over the city. Like we need to really take safety measures seriously.
So thank you for listening and y'all have a good night.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next is Tonya Coen, or Tanya Coen.
TANYA COEN: My name is Tanya Cohen. I live at 1111 Osage in Denver. And I'm here to
echo what many people have said tonight. I am here to request that you make Shontel Lewis the
Chair of the Operations and Customer Service Committee and to remove Kate Williams as
Chair. Because, as we have heard, and we know, she silences her constituents.
As you have seen, she said she wanted to block the emails of Lexanne Leonard, one of the
members of our organization, From Allies to Abolitionists, who attends weekly RTD meetings.
She is attempting to silence a constituent who began attending weekly RTD meetings stemming
from concern around the Raverro Stinnett incident and to hold RTD accountable to its most
vulnerable riders. This is completely inexcusable and is symbolic of the type of institutional
failure and corruption that led to Raverro Stinnett being brutalized, almost killed, and brain
damaged for life. So she must go now, and Shontel Lewis must be made Chair.
Additionally, I implore the Board to vote yes for Shontel Lewis's resolution to bring equity
training for Board members. It is obviously sorely needed. What happened to Raverro Stinnett
would have never happened to me as a white woman just hanging out in RTD, waiting for my
bus. I would not have been stalked. I would not have been brutalized. This has happened time

and time again by security in Denver and we see it time and time again by the police, by our
enforcement agencies. It is sorely, sorely needed.
So please take all these things into account. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next is Bob Denninger.
BOB DENNINGER: --remind the Board Chair of a call last summer from her to the employee
who shared a concern for his physical safety regards sharing his address. I believe he was in the
IT Department at RTD at the time. My impression was that there was agreement on the Board to
end the practice of asking people for their physical address.
Also, I want to express my gratitude and admiration to the sponsors of the JEDI resolution and
echo the sentiments of previous callers regarding the Chair of the Operations Committee. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next is Olivia-- is it Hunt?
OLIVIA HUNT: Yes, it is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
OLIVIA HUNT: Yes, it is. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
OLIVIA HUNT: Perfect. Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to speak tonight.
I just really want to commend Shontel Lewis on the work that she's doing to make the RTD
meetings very accessible, and the fact that, just the work that she's doing, as a caller and listening
to just everyone echo just like great things about Shontel Lewis and her commitment to ensuring
that constituents have access to our meetings.
And so with that, I really urge the Chair to make Shontel Lewis the Chair of Operations and
remove Kate Williams. Oh, I forgot to say my address. Sorry. I'm at 1250 North Logan Street.
And just to echo what the person said before me as far as safety and having to announce my
address as somebody who holds multiple oppressed identities, I don't feel comfortable having to
name that. So I really implore you all to be intentional about thinking about that practice. I'm in
District A. I think that information is more useful than my specific address.
But regardless, I also call on the Board to vote yes for Shontel's resolution for justice, equity,
diversity, and inclusion. I think that's very important for Board members to be able to access that
training to really understand, again, the ways in which their power impacts the lives of the
constituents, especially those that exist at the intersections of oppression. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, with no other callers in the queue-- oh, wait a
minute, there's one more. Olivia Hunt. I hope I said your last name correctly.
Oh, OK. Gone. OK, so I see no other folks in the queue. So we will close public participation
period at this time.
For any of our public participants, if you would like the staff to reach out to us with you-regarding your comments and concerns, please contact the Board Office at the following email
address, board.office@rtd-denver.com. Again, that is board.office@rtd-denver.com.
Next is our committee reports. The committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are
there any corrections from the Directors? Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as
submitted and will become part of the permanent record.
This evening, I would like to start with the General Manager's Oversight and Performance
Management update. What I'd like to do is recognize the incoming Chair of the committee,
Director Buzek, to make a few comments. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thanks for the appointment as Chair of this
committee. And I want to thank our past Chair of the committee from last year. Peggy Catlin did
a wonderful job. The members of this committee, which are the only, currently the only
committee that is not a committee of the whole, Vice Chair is Marjorie Sloan, members are
Directors Cook, Lewis, Dishell, Catlin, Rivera-Malpiede, and Julien Bouquet is the alternate.
And I encourage everyone to attend, even the alternate, and give us ideas and input. We will
really appreciate that.
I'd also ask staff to send to each member of this committee a copy of the committee charter, if
staff would be so kind to do that. And I ask all members of the committee to read the charter and
be familiar with it.
I'd also ask our General Counsel, Melanie Snyder, a question about our charter, if I may, General
Counsel.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. I just want to make sure you were ready. The committee charter for the
GMOC last year also contained provisions for the General Manager Executive Search
Committee. Hopefully, that won't be necessary any time soon. So I'd like to get input from you
on what we need to do to revise the charter to eliminate references to the GMES function of the
GMOC.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Director Buzek. I can make some recommendations and have that
ready and available for the next committee meeting, for sure.

VINCE BUZEK: That'd be great. I appreciate that. And I'd also like to announce to the
committee members-- so pay attention-- we're going to need to meet by next Wednesday,
February 3, in order to discuss a potential change to General Manager Johnson's contract
regarding her 120-day plan. And staff will be reaching out to you to coordinate that.
General Manager Johnson has proposed some comprehensive changes to the Board's existing
strategic planning process. And these changes are going to take longer to implement than the
originally agreed upon 120-day plan would allow. General Manager Johnson has stated that she
is amenable to the contract change. Once discussed in committee next Wednesday, I anticipate
that a recommended action will be included on the agenda for the Operations and Customer
Service Committee scheduled for the night of February 9, 2021.
And that concludes my report, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Secretary Buzek.
Next is the approval of the Special Board Minute meeting on January 5, 2021. May I please have
a motion to approve the minutes from the Special Board Meeting of January 5, 2021?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have Director Broom as the movement and Director Dishell as
the second. Unless there is any discussion, we'll proceed with the voice vote. Are there any no
votes on the approval of the Board minute meetings? Hearing none, that motion is adopted and
the minutes are approved.
Next, I'd like to do the Chair's report. You know, at this time it's my great privilege to announce
the Chairs and the Vice Chair of the Board standing committees for 2021.
I'd like to start with the Finance, Administrative, and Audit Committee. Director Peggy Catlin,
Chair. Director Erik Davidson, Vice Chair. Communications and Government Relations
Committee, Director Guissinger, Chair, Director Whitmore, Vice Chair. Operations, Customer
Service Committee, Chair, Director Williams, Vice Chair, Director Rosenthal. Planning, Capital
Programs, and FasTracks Committee, Chair, Director Cook, Vice Chair, Director Broom. Civil
Rights Committee, Chair, Director Lewis, Vice Chair, Director Dishell.
In addition, the following Directors will serve on the Board's internal committees. You've all
been notified of the General Manager's Oversight and Performance Management Committee. We
do have an ad hoc committee for oversight of certain litigations, and that will be Director Tisdale
and Director Catlin. Ad hoc committee for safety and security, Director Shontel Lewis will be
Chair and Director Julien Bouquet will be Vice Chair. The RTD Salaried Employees Pension
Trustees will be Peggy Catlin and Bob Broom. The ad hoc committee for the committee
restructure will be Director Cook and Director Tisdale.

Now regarding the last ad hoc committee on the committee restructure, Directors Cook and
Tisdale have really done some outstanding work in 2020 really setting the groundwork for a
possible shift in the structure and the operation of internal committees. We're looking forward to
hearing from them in the near future as they continue to delve into this important topic. So please
note that while no decisions have been made, there have been some significant changes in the
near future and the full list of appointments will be released shortly of all the committees. And
that list will include the appointees and the entities outside of RTD, such as the DRCOG
Regional Transportation Committee and the Metro Mayors Caucus, among many others. And
that full list will be posted to the RTD website.
I would also like to announce some changes to our published meeting calendar in the coming
months. So grab a pen, because there are quite a few that I want to make note of. So for the
month of February, the meeting schedule for next Tuesday, February 2, will be as follows. The
Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee will meet, and then that will be followed by
Communications and Government Relations Committee, and then the Planning, Capital
Programs, and FasTracks committee.
For the month of March, there are several changes. So here it is. On Tuesday, March 2,
Operations and Customer Service and Finance, Administration, and Audit will be at 5:30 PM.
On Tuesday, March 9, there will be a study session at 5:30 PM. On Thursday, March 11, there
will be an Executive Committee meeting at noon. On Tuesday, March 16, we will have our
Board meeting at 5:30 PM. And then on Tuesday, March 23, there will be a Finance I workshop
from 2:30 to 4:30 PM. There will be no scheduled committee meetings, Board meetings, or study
sessions at this time for Tuesday March 23 or Tuesday, March 30.
Though the Board calendar is, of course, subject to change, the Board Office will be sending out
an updated annual calendar soon. So please be on the lookout for that. But we just wanted to
make sure that you had those updated dates for your calendar.
Next I'd like to turn to the General Manager. But before-- actually, before I go to the General
Manager, I'd like to talk about a couple of things. You know what, January has turned out to be
an extraordinarily busy month for the RTD, not just the Board of Directors but for the entire
agency and our new General Manager. Last week, we appeared before the state Audit
Committee. And as everyone knows, we have had quite a bit of dialogue regarding the
Northwest corridor.
This evening, I would just like to talk a little bit about the Northwest corridor. You know, I've
spent the last, since Friday, really delving into this issue. And I want to thank the Board and I
also want to thank our General Manager and the staff for working together to looking at this
whole issue.
And it made me go back and think about what we've done as an agency. So FasTracks passed in
2004. But since then, there have been eight elections of Board members. So there's been a
turnover in the Board leadership. There's also been four General Managers since 2004. That is a
significant change in people who have been leading this charge.

RTD has not just sat silently. They have advocated and they have lobbied successfully for a ride
on the shoulder for the BRT to Boulder, and they implemented the Flatiron Flyer with nine
connections, Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Superior, Boulder, along the US 36 corridor.
There's nine stops, with amazing service, 15-minute intervals.
And then during that time there was also a new law enacted, the PRIIA, the Passenger Railroad
Investment and Improvement Act. There has been so much that has happened between 2004 and
2021. And so with that in mind, I am calling for a Special Board Meeting on February 9 for the
Board and our new General Manager to come together to be briefed on exactly what has
happened in the Northwest corridor, who made what decision, when, why, what's worked and
what hasn't worked, so that we are all starting from the very same place as we move forward in
this new chapter of RTD.
As you know, we've had an extraordinary year with a new General Manager, with a turnover in
the Board. And it is our time to sit down and look at things with a very fresh perspective. So I'm
going to ask that we come together and really delve into this issue together as a Board, we look
at it with our General Manager and our staff, and we figure out how to move forward together. I
would also like to call on our Governor, Jared Polis, to join with us to look at new innovations as
we move forward to really come with some new kinds of ideas to build out this Northwest rail.
With that, I'd like to turn it over to our General Manager. And then I'll be asking Board members
if they have any comments. General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening to you, Board
members, and to all who are virtually assembled for RTD's January Board meeting.
I am Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District. I will
be providing a brief report to you regarding my activities falling within my transitional plan
priorities of exercising organizational stewardship and financial responsibility, engaging
employees and optimizing service delivery, and engaging stakeholders and building partnerships.
Exercising financial responsibility is very prudent and falling within the auspices of my
organizational stewardship priority. On December 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Response and
Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021, commonly referred to as CRRSAA, was signed
into law. This funding package includes $900 billion in supplemental appropriations for COVID19 relief, $14 billion of which is being allocated to support the transit industry.
In November of last year, RTD's 2021 budget was approved by this body, which addressed $140
million budget deficit. The measures taken to address the deficit were done through budget
reductions that included decreasing our work force, implementing furloughs for non-represented
salaried employees, as well as leveraging funding received with the Coronavirus Aid Relief and
Economic Security Act, commonly referred to as CARES funding.
The employee impacted budgetary measures, including the reduction in force, was effectuated on
January 10, just a little over two weeks ago. The following day, on January 11, RTD received
notice of its CRRSAA apportionment of $203 million. RTD is still awaiting specific guidance

from FTA regarding the requirements and allowable expenditures necessary to draw these funds.
However, it is eminently clear from the legislation that this funding must be used to sustain
transit operations.
In following the intent of the CRRSAA funds, my top priority has been to restore the agency's
workforce. The operations team has worked cooperatively with the Amalgamated Transit Union
Local 1001 to recall full time frontline operations employees who were laid off as part of the
workforce reduction. Those callbacks have concluded and the vast majority resumed their posts
this week. Staff is currently working with ATU to recall the remaining part-time bus operators.
We are optimistic that this will happen within the next week.
As you know, salaried non-representative employees endured compensation impacts in 2020
through nine mandated furlough days and were primed to endure additional impacts in 2021. In
adherence to CRRSAA, the six planned furlough days and salary reductions for non-represented
salaried employees as part of the 2021 budget have been repealed. In addition to the
aforementioned, the CRRSAA funding utilization plan, which is being developed by a leadership
work group I convened comprised of the acting Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operations
Officer, the AGM of Planning, as well as myself, will vastly be centered upon the restoration of
service. The remaining funds will be used for implementing recommendations from the
Accountability Committee and the most recent state performance audit. I, along with the acting
CFO, will present details regarding the CRRSAA utilization plan next Tuesday, February 2, at a
special Finance Committee meeting that has been calendared.
Next, I'd like to state, as it relates, the legislative Audit Committee hearing, as a state-created
entity, RTD is audited at least every five years. Last Thursday, as you heard from our Chair, the
Chair and I testified before the state's Legislative Audit Committee. The scope of the audit
included bus and light rail operation attrition, front line operation supervisory practices, operator
rest breaks, shift scheduling, and the District's internal audit function. RTD agreed with all the
audit recommendations and staff will be working judiciously over the next several months to
institute practices, processes, and procedures to mitigate the findings. As I mentioned, CRRSAA
funding will be leveraged.
Yesterday, I, along with the Chief Operations Officer and the AGM of Communications, met
with the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Public Health and the Environment,
as well as with the Executive Director of the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition to discuss
partnership opportunities in providing access to those age 70 years and better, as well as our
marginalized communities for vaccination.
Additionally, discussions ensued pertaining to the District's needs as an employer of essential
workers within the critical infrastructure classification. Wonderful ideas germinated, of which
our respective teams are fleshing out. The group is reconvening late next week to discuss the
options available to chart a path forward. I'm extremely excited about the possibilities and will
apprise accordingly.
In addition to the meeting I just referenced, I have participated and actively engaged in 40-plus
meetings since the last Board meeting on December 15. I will reference a few. Meetings with the

Chair and Vice Chair of the House Transportation Committees and the Chair of the Senate
Transportation Committees, local city council members, county commissioners, chambers of
commerce, neighborhood associations, the Public Utilities Commission, the Federal Transit
Administration, a ride-along with one of our operators, as well as three Dialogue With Debra allhand meetings.
Now, I'll touch briefly upon my remarks I made on January 13 while participating on a panel
held by the Boulder Transportation Connection, during which I was asked about my thoughts
pertaining to Northwest rail. My response, which has been consistent since my first day on the
job, has been and remains to be that I plan to work with partners across the region on how RTD
can best serve our customers. Specific to the Northwest rail line, I am keenly aware of the
commitment made and am open to having honest and transparent dialogue with community
partners and exploring ideas on serving our customers in the Northwest area. I look forward to
the study session that Chair Rivera-Malpiede referenced in her report.
Madam Chair, with that, my report is concluded. Thank you very kindly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager.
Next is our Unanimous Consent. There is only one item under the Unanimous Consent Agenda,
and this evening, and it's listed under 11, Action A, the FasTracks series 2012A bonds and the
TIFIA loan refunding. If anyone has a change to or questions on this item, please feel free to
advise the Chair at this time and we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the Unanimous
Consent Agenda for consideration and recommended action.
All right. Hearing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek moves to approve.
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I heard Director Broom as the movant and Director Cook as
the second. Is there any discussion?
OK, hearing none, is there any no vote? Hearing none, it moves unanimously.
Likewise, there is one recommended action on the agenda this evening. It is specifically action B
under item 12. And that item reads, the justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion, otherwise known
as JEDI proposal. Do we have a motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved, Director Lewis.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I hear Director Lewis. And Director Whitmore is the second.
Is there any discussion on this motion? Hearing none, I will now call on the Directors to see if
there's any comment. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to express to my fellow Board
members, I know this passed through earlier committee 14 to 1. And I appreciate Directors
Lewis and Directors Dishell for all their hard work that they did to bring this proposal.
I do want to reiterate with what others have said earlier on and showing how a majority of our
colleagues tonight did support this proposal and that this proposal needs to be enacted. And I am
hoping that it passes tonight. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair, I won't be supporting this measure. We have a lot of business on
our plate to deal with, and I just feel like setting aside this much time for something in lieu of-we've been put on notice by the governor to get our act together. We need to be doing that. And
so I'll be voting no on this. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. No comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions or comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions or comments. Thanks much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I just would simply like to say a deep and
heartfelt thank you to Directors Lewis, Bouquet, Dishell for the thoughtful and critical action. I
was enthusiastic about this in committee. And after this evening, I remain enthusiastic and
touched and encouraged by the public support we heard.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to the public participants who
called in this evening. And I hope you all are encouraged to give us feedback on what we can do
and what we can continue to do. I also want to take a moment to thank Director Lewis for her

work, not just in helping get this here, but over the past two years to encourage this Board to
continue to focus on justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion. I don't know that without her work
over the past two years we would be where we are today.
I want to thank all the Board members for your consideration, for the thoughtfulness, and I'm
really looking forward to continuing to learn, learn with you all, learn from you all, and improve
our agency.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would just join with others in thanking Director Lewis and Dishell and
Bouquet for bringing this forward and for this impressive amount of work that went into it. I
appreciate it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, do you want to speak now or speak
at the end?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll speak at the end.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And definitely a great big thank you and
congratulations to Directors Lewis, Bouquet, and Dishell on your great work on the JEDI
proposal, and I look forward to participating in it. Thanks again.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to express my appreciation for
the Board members who worked on this and the folks who called in tonight in public comment.
And other than that, I have no questions or comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Let me join in the thanks and
congratulations to the three directors who brought this item forward. I think it was important that
it be done. And I'm glad to see that it has broad support on the Board, as well as broad public
support. Regarding the comment or observation made by Director Broom, I would say that I
don't believe that the time necessary to address this issue will be so detrimental to our achieving
all of the other important tasks that we have before us, and I think that it will help inform us in
making better decisions in those tasks.
Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I will save some time by not reiterating
comments from the committee meeting. But with that thought in mind, I remain a positive vote
on this very important matter. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have no questions or comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
I would just like to say, before I turn this over to Director Lewis, that I am absolutely thrilled and
honored and I am looking so forward to the work that we will be doing collectively on the JEDI
project. I think that this is going to be a great adventure and a time for us to really touch the soul
of this community together.
With that, I'll turn it over to Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I will actually keep my comments brief, because
I think other Board members have done a really great job. I'd really like to thank the folks who
called in in support of the work of Directors Dishell and Bouquet. We spent a lot of time having
a lot of conversations and seeing the opportunity to really thread justice, equity, diversity, and
inclusion, or JEDI, as Director Whitmore really loved, thread that throughout the agency. It's
really an exciting time for me.
And I think with many agencies, we tend to think that justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion is
the thing that we can do once we create some sustainability. And it's actually the thing that we
should be doing in order to create sustainability. And so I'm quite excited about the opportunity
and I thank the Directors who have supported this, and also those who don't, as I think it will add
value to the agency and into our lives professionally as well.
So that's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Now I'm going to call for the vote. And I'll proceed in
alphabetical order.
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Broom
BOB BROOM: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Davidson
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Guissinger
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. That is 14 yeses and one no, being Director
Broom. That motion passes. Congratulations.

This evening there is no Executive Session. Is there any old business to discuss before this
Board?
Hearing none, on to New Business. There is one item of the business listed on the agenda, which
is the Accountability Committee draft report. At this time I will recognize the current Chair of
the Communication and Government Relations Committee, First Vice Chair Guissinger, to lead
off this discussion.
Director Guissinger, you have the floor.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I actually have a couple of other quick things to
say before we get to that. And that's going to be a shorter conversation, since the co-chairs are
not attending tonight. They're attending next week.
But first of all, I wanted to appreciate the comments from both the Chair and the General
Manager about Northwest rail. It's back in the news again. And I think that I especially
appreciate the focus that both of you have on partnerships. There are some potentials out there,
Front Range passenger rail, Amtrak, certainly our other partners, CDOT, our local governments.
And now seems like a good time to really take a look and see what we're dealing with, what the
facts are, and see if we can be a leader with those partnerships to see what the potential is. And I
appreciate that.
Second thing is that tomorrow afternoon, the Chair and the General Manager will be presenting
their SMART Act presentation. I forget what the stands for exactly. But basically, it's a
presentation to the joint transportation committees. I don't believe that link has gone out yet, but
there is a link that people can listen to that from. It's at 3:05 is when it's scheduled. I'd tune in a
little before that. And I can get that link to John or Barbara to get that out before the meeting's
over. There are actually several reports in the afternoon on transportation that could be
interesting. So I'll try to get that agenda out too.
And then finally the Accountability Committee, we just, I believe I saw, but I haven't looked at it
yet, the draft language for the bill that will be carried by Senator Winter and Representative Gray
that is the language that the accountability-- it's the drafted legislative language moving forward
the provisions that the Accountability Committee was recommended, recommending that the
legislature take action on. And those we've discussed several times. They're all changes to the
RTD Act to provide more flexibility to RTD around parking, the ability to charge for parking,
around contracting, and who we can hire to contract, and the maximum of 58%.
There are a couple of other provisions around the transit-oriented development, and then the
farebox recovery, which has been mentioned several times in various ways, to remove that
requirement, 30% farebox recovery. It's not particularly meaningful anyhow, because of the way
that is defined to include any money that's not our sales and use taxes.
You've had the report. I'm happy to answer questions. The co-chairs will be here next week and
will be here to answer questions as well. And I think it'll be a good opportunity for us to sort of
hear what else they have on their docket for the coming months. Thanks.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you. OK, any other new business? Director
Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for proposing the special
meeting of the Board regarding the completion of the B Line, or the Northwest rail, as it's come
to be known. I appreciate you bringing that up and just wanted to share a few comments to my
fellow Board members.
I'm enthusiastically in support of this proposal for us to have a dedicated session and a dedicated
and open discussion. Completing the B Line remains part of RTD's plan. It's been reinforced by
the Board and it appears in the Northwest area mobility study that was conducted by our RTD
and stakeholders in the Northwest. Because this plan is still in place, I think it's very critical for
us to communicate openly. And I believe we heard a public comment this evening asking for
transparency. And I commend the move to bring us together with that transparency
I think it's important as we do that to recall that the B Line in particular includes multiple
communities. It has Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Lafayette, Boulder and Longmont
constituents and stakeholders. And the excessive delays without resolution or transparent
communication for 16 years has been eroding trust. And I think we've been experiencing and
seeing that for the past few weeks. I think we need to rebuild that trust. And to do that, we need
to take some material next steps to pursue an overdue resolution and to communicate openly
with our riders and communities.
Our Board is relatively new, as, Madam Chair, you pointed out. And RTD has a new, strong
leader in General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson. The timing is right and it's critical that we
be briefed on the details so that we can explore all the ways that we might complete this project,
including any and all out-of-the-box solutions.
I also just want to comment to my fellow Board members and echo something that Director
Guissinger brought up. There's something very exciting about our timing right now, which is that
there are potential new partnerships that may make this such that we do not have to go it alone as
it relates to this project and as we accomplish all of our goals. As we pursue building a
holistically strong and sustainable system, RTD should not merely be a participant observing
those partnerships. We need to be a leader in bringing those partnerships to fruition. We live in a
region with collaborative people, filled with brilliant transit minds. I know we can find a good
path together.
Thank you for this proposal, Madam Chair, and thank you for the time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Davidson.
Is there any other new business to discuss, to bring forward to this Board at this time?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is-[INTERPOSING VOICES]

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have Director Catlin and then Second Vice Chair Cook.
Go ahead, Director Catlin.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And Director Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I too am pleased that you and our General
Manager have proposed this special session to really roll up our sleeves and look at the issue. But
I want to encourage my fellow Board members to look at it from a region-wide perspective and
not just focus on the Northwest rail. There are other unfinished corridors, but I want to remind
you all that also in the FasTracks plan, there was a commitment to enhance bus service suburb to
suburb, as well as Park and Rides. And over time, that bus service has not been enhanced. It's
been eroded.
And I really hope that we can have a conversation regarding the entire district and some of the
impacts and the challenges that we face to, as Director Davidson said, really provide a robust and
comprehensive transit system for the entire region. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And just echoing what Director Catlin said
regarding coming at this regionally. But would also ask, to the extent that the effort will involve
the communities along the line, it actually runs through or at the border of Arvada and would
serve a good chunk of Arvada and District L. And I would like to be incorporated or to have our
community incorporated into the efforts that bring people together around this issue.
So just wanted to second the-- we all know this is a regional issue and we all wear that hat, but
also asking for that involvement going forward with regard to the fact finding and planning for
this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Duly noted.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Madam Chair, it's Director Rosenthal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, thank you for your leadership and
your efforts to explore this issue of the Northwest rail. And I commend you on putting together
that special forum on February 2.
Thank you to Directors Davidson and Guissinger for your comments and to General Manager
Johnson for doing your best to engage the community. And also, listening in to some of the
comments tonight from Directors Catlin and Cook, thank you for expressing your perspectives as
well on the region-wide nature of the network. And also in the community, Director Lewis has
also been having comments about some of her perspectives on this as well.

So I've been listening in to everybody's perspective. I look forward to the session on February 2
and to a spirited discussion about how we can further this process along on the Northwest rail.
Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other Directors?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Director Sloan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead. Director Sloan, you have the floor.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I appreciate all the thoughts on the Northwest corridor and I'm really
looking forward to our meeting. I have a very minor issue that came up today, minor for the
Board, but perhaps major for our commenters. And I agree that there's absolutely no reason for
people to give their individual addresses. And that will become even more important when we
have in-person meetings, when it would be obvious that they would not be in their residence.
And I would suggest we substitute either their neighborhoods with the district, or just the district,
as a matter of procedure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Sloan. I have noted that. Thank you so very
much.
Any other Board members?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, let me do with Director Lewis, and then Director Tisdale.
Director Lewis, you have the floor.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madame Chair. I would actually like to second Director Sloan's
comment. And I did shoot a quick text message to our General Manager, and that is something
that she's working on behind the scenes. But I imagine she'll update the Board on those actions.
I wanted to lend my voice here to the conversation about the Northwest rail, more specifically
onto Director Catlin's point to really expand the conversation. I do think this is a great
opportunity for one, for us to have difficult conversations and to bring a myriad of stakeholders
to the table to really see what's what as it pertains to what it is that we do at RTD, what are the
things that we need, and how we take a holistic approach to providing public transit and making
sure that the folks who are utilizing our services are able to.
And so I'm quite excited about this opportunity. I would love to take this opportunity to thank
Director Davidson in his work that he's been doing behind the scenes as it pertains to getting

some of these conversations online and having these difficult conversations to move the agency
forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I join in the appreciation of the
discussion on the unfinished corridors, being a Director with one of the unfinished corridors, the
Southwest rail line. So needless to say, it is important. And it is something that this Board, in
2018, committed to in the FasTracks reauthorization resolution. So I appreciate that and I look
forward to the discussion.
To that point, I applaud the Chair's phenomenal ability to run a very efficient meeting. But it's so
efficient that I didn't have a pencil handy when the Chair went through the new calendar. And I
was hoping that you might take just a moment to review those dates with us at this time, because
I'm in the process of trying to update my calendar and I had already inserted all the old meetings
and now I have to change them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, the good-- thank you, Director Tisdale. The good news is
that Ms. McManus-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, the good news is that Ms. McManus in the Board Office,
in their usual stellar work, will send it out. But I would say to you that in February, the meeting
scheduled for Tuesday, February 2 will follow as Finance, Administration, and Audit
Committee, and then Communications and Government Relations Committee, and then
Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTracks Committee.
And then for the month of March, Tuesday, March 2 will be Operations, Customer Service, and
Finance and Administration and Audit at 5:30. Tuesday, March 9, study session at 5:30.
Thursday, March 11, Executive Committee at noon. Tuesday, March 16, Board meeting at 5:30.
And Tuesday, March 23, Finance I workshop, 2:30 to 4:30.
And then there will be no scheduled committee meetings, Board meetings, or study sessions at
this time for Tuesday March 23 or March 30. So just so you know, that will be sent out to you
again. But thank you for asking the question.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any other Board members with questions or comments?
OK. Seeing no other business before us, I will now entertain a motion to adjourn. Do I have a
movant?
BOBBY DISHELL: Dishell.

VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have Dishell as a movement, and who was the second, please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Lewis. Do I have any opposition? Hearing none, I am
adjourning this meeting at 6:57 PM. Thank you all for participating tonight. The meeting is
adjourned and be safe. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Good night.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good night.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair.

