Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

January 18, 2012

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on January 17, 2012 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tobiassen, Walker and Williams.
Directors Deadwyler, McMullen and Tayer

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Jeff Kay, Marla Lien,
Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey,
Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner,
Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Brian Welch, Phil Washington and Susan
Wood,

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry – Brandeberry-McKenna, Michelle Brier, Steve
Cook – DRCOG, Jane Donovan, Dave Hamon, Joni Goheen –
Vertegic Group, Sherman Hamilton – Vertegic Group, Jonathan
Johnson, Julie McKenna – Brandeberry-McKenna, Brian Middleton, Bill
Mosher – DUSPA, Ray Murphy – First Southwest, Jacob Riger –
DRCOG, Julie Skeen, Michael Swan – DU, Elena Wilken – CASTA, and
Bob Wilson.
****

Call to Order

I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 6:52 p.m.
Committee Chair Cohen explained that he had asked staff to provide
an outline for tonight’s presentation so that all of the Directors would
have an overview of what we will be reviewing tonight.

CAC Update
Committee Chair Cohen noted that he and Director Bagley met with staff, the
Vertigic team and members of the P.I. team today and had a very substantive
meeting. We examined if their role is still current within the original scope of project

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 2
and will determine in the next few weeks what the CAC will focus on this year. Our
CAC Roundtable last month was very well received and we will try to maintain that
momentum and collaborative energy moving forward.
II.

Update
 FasTracks Program Video
Pauletta Tonilas explained that every year as part of our public information
program we create a video to highlight the progress of the FasTracks program.
This year we designed the update to emulate a news report and focused on three
different types of individuals: business man, student, and family. These dvds will
be provided to elected officials, to our congressional delegation and to all of the
public information officers in the cities and counties.

III.

Recommended Action


2012 APE Financial Plan

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors direct staff to perform additional technical/financial analyses for Options 2
and 3 described below prior to taking formal action to approve the 2012 Annual
Program Evaluation (APE):


Option 1 (Base Case): Delay completion of Northwest Rail 3 - 5 years to
match RTD’s cash flow requirements (results of technical/financial analyses
of this option presented during January 17, 2012 FasTracks Monitoring
Committee meeting);



Option 2: Delay completion of Northwest Rail 3 - 5 years to match RTD’s
cash flow requirements, but accelerate select capital projects and increase
funding for bus service for Northwest Rail and U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit
Corridor Service Areas. Would require delaying all other partially-funded
FasTracks corridors by approximately 6 months;



Option 3: Remove Northwest Rail from the FasTracks plan and commit
remaining Northwest Rail project funds, capped at $894.6 million (YOE), for
expanded/enhanced Bus Rapid Transit in the Northwest Corridor area to be
completed by 2020.

General Manager Washington explained that staff is asking to analyze the other two
options for Northwest Rail. In response to Stakeholder requests, we’ve put together
three options:
1. Delay completion of Northwest Rail 3-5 years to match RTD’s cash
flow requirements
2. Delay completion 3-5 years but accelerate select capital projects and
increase funding for bus service for Northwest Rail and U.S. 36 Bus
Rapid Transit Corridor Service Areas
3. Remove Northwest Rail from the FasTracks plan and commit remaining
Northwest Rail project funds, capped at $894.6 million for

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 3
expanded/enhanced Bus Rapid Transit in the Northwest Corridor area.
Bill Van Meter noted that staff updated all inputs into RTD’s financial plan including
sales and use tax forecasts, construction inflation assumptions, operations and
maintenance costs, and capital costs. For this year’s APE, RTD hired the Business
Research Division of CU Leeds School of Business to develop third party sales and
use tax forecasts.
Rick Clarke added that we are not anticipating any other Full Funding Grant
Agreements, but we are anticipating an FTA Small Starts Grant, other federal capital
funding and State SB1 funding. As part of the 2012 APE, it is recommended to
establish two fund balances to ensure the FasTracks program is fiscally sustainable.
These funds will allow RTD to maintain both corridor capital construction and
ongoing operations in case of a severe economic downturn without sacrificing one
for the other. Assuming the Northwest Rail Line is completed in 2024, the financial
plan works well within RTD’s cash flow constraints. However, that assumes a
successful sales and use tax election in 2012, which would have Northwest Rail
completed by 2024 and all other projects completed by 2020.
Rick Clarke further added that the major scope changes between previous and
current estimates include increased need for corridor rights of way, increased costs
for environmental mitigation and utility relocations due to larger right of way needs,
additional vehicles to meet BNSF requirements and upfront BNSF costs for operating
time slots.
General Manager Washington explained that Option 2’s delay of completion of
Northwest Rail to 2024 would:
1. Match RTD’s cash flow requirements, but accelerate select capital
projects and increase funding for bus service for Northwest Rail and
U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Corridor Service Areas
2. Increase overall service along the US36 BRT corridor starting in 2015
3. Build and provide bus service to future Northwest Rail park-n-rides at
Louisville, Gunbarrel and Longmont
4. Provide the remaining Phase 2 funding for the US 36 BRT project by
2015
5. Provides early tangible benefits to the corridor that is last in line and
most at risk
General Manager Washington explained that Option 3 would remove Northwest Rail
from the FasTracks plan and remaining Northwest Rail project funds would be
committed to expand BRT in the Northwest Corridor area. If the Board chooses to
move forward with this scenario, RTD, CDOT, and our stakeholders will work
together through the environmental process to determine the exact type, location
and timing of improvements in the service area. RTD will still have the ability to
implement TOD plans with significant investment in BRT stations.
General Manager Washington added that our challenge is that the Board needs to
approve the 2012 APE financial plan no later than March 2012. A delay in the APE

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 4
and SB 208 processes would negatively impact RTD’s ability to move forward in
2012. Staff recommends that the Board of Directors direct staff to perform technical
and financial analyses for Options 2 and 3 described in this presentation and return
with additional information on March 6, 2012.
Committee Chair Cohen explained that there is a lot of information here, but we are
being asked to look at options 2 and 3 for the Northwest Corridor which will frame
and form the 2012 APE which we will vote on later.
General Manager Washington noted that there have been a lot of questions regarding
if we are successful with a sales and use tax vote in 2012. If so, we will stay the
course with Northwest Rail. If the Board chooses option 3, the ballot language must
reflect that.
Marla Lien added that the Board voted in April of 2004 of a plan that had two
Northwest corridor improvements. One was BRT and the other was Rail. If we go
out to the voters with a new sales tax initiative you will have to ask them to amend
the plan to have a BRT alternative instead of Rail if you want to use that 4/10 of a
cent.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that we would then be going to the voters asking
them for an additional 4/10 and as part of that a change in the scope of the plan. If
the voters say no, we are back to the original plan that was voted on and we will
continue to move forward to eventually build commuter rail to Longmont.
Director Bagley inquired if the CU Leeds figures for the Average Annual Growth Rate
were more conservative than our own figures. Bill Van Meter explained that was
correct.
Director Daly inquired if one of the BRT options to Longmont would touch Weld
County. Bill Van Meter explained that yes, and we are allowed to drive outside of
our district as long as we do not collect passengers or alight. This is not a strong
option but it needed to be considered.
Director Daly asked how loyal the stakeholders to Rail in the Northwest Corridor are.
General Manager Washington indicated that we are giving them until March 1st to
give us their input.
Chair Kemp added that we owe it to our northern stakeholders to allow staff to
continue the analysis for the best options for that area before the Board makes any
sort of decision.
Director Williams noted that it is important for our northern stakeholders to look at
all of the options available and certainly, if we go to an election this fall we’ll need
the support of the stakeholders to support it.
Director Tobiassen indicated that the reserve fund is a lot of money and inquired

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 5
what happens to that money at the end of the program. Would it make sense to hold
onto all of this money until the end, and if so, how do you determine who gets it.
Rick Clarke explained that ultimately, for such a big program to not have any sort of
contingency reserve is not fiscally responsible. Also, any contingency money is not
intended or expected to be used for betterments. Director Tobiassen indicated there
need to be policies related to the use and expenditure of the reserve fund.
Director Hoy asked if the Board should decide to refer a vote to the voters when
would we have to make that decision. Marla Lien explained that a ballot title must be
certified by mid August.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the January 24, 2012
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.
Directors Deadwyler, McMullen and
Tayer were absent from this vote.

IV.

Other Matters
None

V.

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for February
14, 2012

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned at 8:55 p.m.

