Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 19, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Phuoc N. Dang, Staff Accountant, 36 years
Charles H. Johnston, Body Shop, 36 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director James
Legislative Committee - Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee - Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee - Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee - Chaired by Director Solano
Financial/Administration Committee - Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight and Performance Management - Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee - Chaired by Director James
CDOT - Director Walker
E-470 - Director Tobiassen
ACED - Director Solano and Hoy
Northwest Parkway - Director Sisk
Pension Committee - Director Lubow and Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Regular Board Meeting Minutes of January 22, 2013

IX.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of February 5, 2013

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of Additional Risk Allocation Matrix Items to Fund North Metro to 72nd

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors direct staff to move forward with implementation of the following additional Risk
Allocation Matrix (RAM) items and to use the financing capacity generated by these items
to accelerate construction of the North Metro Rail Line (NMRL) from Denver Union Station
(DUS) to 72nd Avenue.
Specifically, it is recommended that staff move forward with the following activities:


Refinancing three RTD debt issues at lower than current rates to reduce payments,
improve cash flow, and provide additional capacity under TABOR;



Issuing debt to bridge the Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) for the Eagle
project at a lower interest rate than previously assumed, saving interest costs and
preserving additional capacity under Colorado’s Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR);



Issuing sales tax revenue bonds in 3rd Quarter, 2013 to finance remaining portion
of the DUS to 72nd Avenue segment;



Initiating procurement for construction (Request for Proposals) of the NMRL to 72nd
Avenue in the next ten months.

Approval of the opportunities listed above will allow RTD to take advantage of the low
interest rates that financial markets are currently offering to accelerate the completion of
the NMRL to 72nd Avenue. This action will not impact the availability of funding from
previously-approved RAM items.
B.

Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors accept the modifications to the 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement as well as
accept these modifications for 2014.
C.

April 2013 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the April 2013 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately $53,200 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

D.
Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Taxable Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds,
Series 2013A.
E.
Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2013A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2013A.
F.
Amendment to MV Public Transportation ADA Contract ADA 17-DH-007 for award
of the Belmar, Green Mountain and Golden Call-n-Rides.
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute a contract
amendment with MV Public Transportation for the provision of the “Belmar”, “Green
Mountain” and “Golden” Call-n-Ride contracted demand response transit services under
the existing MV Public Transportation ADA contract. This contract amendment is for a
nine (9) month period from April 2013 through December 2013. The cost for the Belmar
Call-n-Ride service will not exceed $183,420, Green Mountain Call-n-Ride will not exceed
$293,172 and Golden Call-n-Ride will not exceed $234,214. The total not to exceed
amount will be $710,806. These amounts include estimates for fuel costs that are treated
as “pass through” expenses.

XIII.

Recommended Action
G.

Contract Award to HNTB Corporation for Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS)

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a thirteen-month professional
services contract award to HNTB Corporation to serve as the consultant for the
Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) for an amount not to exceed $2,022,091. It is
further recommended that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $2.5
million from the Transit Development Reserve to fund the consultant contract, staff
time and specialized on-call modeling support for the NAMS. These funds will be
replenished in the 2013 Amended Budget with proceeds of the sale of the air rights at
Civic Center Station.
H.

Aconex Contract Extension

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to exercise the four option years on
the contract with Aconex, in the total amount of $480,000, for Construction Management
Software as a Service, extending the end date of the contract to April 2017. Funding for

this contract in 2013 is included in the 2013 Adopted Budget, and future year funding will
be appropriated on an annual basis.
I.

Senate Bill 13-027 Board Action

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
support Senate Bill 13-027, concerning the provision of parking facilities by third parties at
or near Regional Transportation District mass transit stations, and allow RTD’s lobbyists
and staff to work with legislators to make any amendments consistent with the Board of
Directors’ intent. In addition, RTD would enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
with the City of Boulder (Boulder) that would require Boulder’s concurrence before any
existing RTD owned park-n-Ride could be sold or leased for private operation under the
amended legislation.
J.

DBE Committee Name Change

It is recommended by the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Committee that the Board of
Directors change the name of the Disadvantage Business Enterprise (DBE) Committee to
the Civil Rights Committee which is more inclusive and comprehensive in scope and
responsibilities.

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Executive Session
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

