1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 19, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Anderson asked for everyone to rise and join in saying the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Paula Perdue provided roll call of the Board members. There were 15 present and 0
absent.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:31 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:33 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:31 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:35 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present
Present

5:35 PM
5:31 PM
5:32 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:27 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:31 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:28 PM

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel, Martha Bembry, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lisa Dorrance,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Cheryl Holmes, Terry Howerter,
Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus,
Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill
Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington
OTHERS PRESENT
Sarah Boettcher, Michelle Brier, Michael Cummings, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Tom
Grushka, Sherman Hamilton, Martha Harvey, Brad Langer, Mike Newman, Gene Putman,
Jacob Riger, Kenny Shepard, Jeanne Shreve, Jason Simmons, Karen Stuart, Chris Taylor,
Joe Tripplett, Steve Valdeck, Gary Van Dorn, Monte Whaley

IV.

Retiree Awards
Chair Anderson indicated that neither of the two retirees were present tonight. However,
the Board wanted to share their appreciation to Phuoc N. Dang, Staff Accountant with 36
years of service, and Charles H. Johnston, Body Shop, also with 36 years of service, for
their commitment and contribution to RTD.

V.

Public Participation









Gene Putnam, City of Thornton Transportation Planning, expressed that initially he was
apprehensive about the NAMS study. However, as he has evaluated this further, he
understands the need to look at alternatives for Longmont as the price tag for the use
of the ROW has increased. He is also concerned about connectivity possibilities with
Ft. Collins and Loveland as part of the CDOT efforts. He will support this NAMS
study.
Mike Cummings, University of Denver, expressed his concerns about the Board
teambuilding session and the perceived exclusion of a couple of Board members.
Martha Harvey, Arvada shared some concerns in the area of seating for the disabled on
bus coaches, the lack of proper signage, the access to the Smart card machines for
swiping of EcoPass cards and the poor quality of the voice used on the machine to
provide instructions for the disabled. Chair Anderson indicated someone from staff
would get back to her.
Tom Grushka, RTDWatch, expressed his concerns about riders with disabilities. He
stated that in 2004 RTD had promised an increase in bus service and he wonders
when they will get the service as promised. He also stated the Civil Rights need to
have a more substantive position on users with disabilities.
Kenny Shepard, Denver, asked if it is possible to get a station at 64th on the East
corridor. He cited possible needs for a station there including hotel access.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director James
Legislative Committee - Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee - Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee - Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee - Chaired by Director Solano
Financial/Administration Committee - Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight and Performance Management - Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee - Chaired by Director James
CDOT - Director Walker
E-470 - Director Tobiassen
ACED - Director Solano and Hoy
Northwest Parkway - Director Sisk
Pension Committee - Director Lubow and Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Bagley shared they had an
introductory meeting with the new members of the committee, Directors Lasater and
Solano, on February 5, 2013. The next activity from this committee will center on helping
to further develop the GM task goals for 2014 which will come from the Strategic
Planning Advance on March 2. The first quarter online survey monkey for the GM
evaluation will be sometime around April 10.

VIII.

Approval of Regular Board Meeting Minutes of January 22, 2013
Chair Anderson asked for a motion to approve the minutes from the regular board meeting
of January 22, 2013
Motion:

Director James made the motion to approve the minutes from
January 22, 2013.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor and 1 abstain (Chuck Sisk
who was not on roll at that time)

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [14 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Bill James, Director, District A
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of February 5, 2013
Chair Anderson asked for a motion to approve the minutes of the special board meeting,
February 5, 2013.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the special board
meeting minutes from February 5, 2013.
Director James seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 15 in favor.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Bill James, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

X.

Chair's Report


Chair Anderson announced that Director Angelina Rivera-Malpiede has been invited by
the United States Department of Transportation and the American Public
Transportation Association to participate in a series of conversations to discuss barriers
and opportunities for elevating the importance of transportation in the Hispanic
community, potential opportunities and strategies for engaging Hispanic leaders, and
insights about Hispanic involvement and interests in local transportation initiatives.
Director Rivera-Malpiede joins a group of fourteen distinguished Hispanic leaders from
around the country in this discussion that will likely shape national transportation policy
as it relates to the Hispanic community. The conversation series is titled,
Transportation and the Hispanic Community, Challenges and Opportunities.








Chair Anderson reported that on February 15, she and Directors Hoy, Bagley, Walker
and Solano attended the Metro North Chamber Gala event.
Chair Anderson shared that on February 19, the Board had a teambuilding session at
Unser Racing. All of the Board members were invited to attend and the Board had
done its due diligence in checking with the facilities to see if everyone could
participate. They had shared they have had a number of teambuilding events for
corporations and that as a “team”, there would be a role for everyone. Some of the
Directors chose not to participate. In the future, we will look at exercises where there
is a specific role for everyone. However, the Board is focused on utilizing the talents
of all its members to move this organization ahead and to set policy for the agency as
we focus on the difficult transit decisions ahead.
The joint Board-staff strategic planning advance will be on March 2. Chair Anderson
encouraged everyone to complete the survey monkey they had received from the
facilitator.
The North Metro Line tour will be February 26 starting at 2:00 p.m.
Chair Anderson requested General Manager Washington to provide his report.

XI.

General Manager's Report







General Manager Washington shared that this agency’s number 1 priority is safety. He
updated the Board on the issue that had happened that morning around 6:18 a.m.
where a bus driver entered northbound on southbound I-25. He indicated they had
been investigating this issue. Some of the confusion had to do with detour signage
around the 19 street entrance indicating the HOV lane was closed. They have
performed their usual process of testing the operating and putting the driver out of
service until this investigation is complete. The training department will continue to reemphasize safety first.
General Manager Washington indicated RTD had been invited to a groundbreaking of
the University Station Apartment on February 26.
General Manager Washington indicated the I-225 groundbreaking will be March 1 at
the site of the future Aurora Station north of Centerpoint and Sable. Many dignitaries
are expected to be there including a special invitation that he had extended to the
highest ranking Major General in this area who was involved in the Veterans Hospital.
The I-225 opening will be a gateway for Veterans across several states who will utilize
the Veteran’s Hospital.
General Manager Washington indicated that he had sent an email response to the
editor of the Denver Post addressing specifically the question from the editorial in the
Denver Post on 2/18/13 raising the question “how well are they doing at meeting the
needs of disabled customers they're elected to serve? General Manager Washington
provided these few examples:

o

o
o
o

o
o

o

o
o

o

o

o

RTD was the first major transit agency in the nation to offer wheelchair lifts on 100
percent of its bus fleet, well ahead of the requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Act (ADA).
RTD pioneered the access-a-Cab program for the metro area, greatly expanding the
on-demand service available to the disability community.
The Denver area is ranked as one of the nation’s most accessible metro areas for
persons with disabilities, due in large part to RTD’s transit services.
The Denver Post just ran a story last month noting how RTD’s contractor for the
East Rail Line serving DIA had solicited and listened to recommendations from an
individual with disabilities who had asked for modifications to the wheelchair
passenger area on the rail vehicles being built for that line. Under RTD’s direction,
those modifications are being made.
RTD’s rail fleet is fully equipped with automatic stop announcement systems, and
the full bus fleet will have that installation completed later this year.
RTD carried over 700,000 passengers last year aboard our access-a-Ride service,
which is provided for persons with disabilities too severe to use our regular liftequipped service.
The access-a-Ride service has an on-time performance rate of 96 percent,
significantly exceeding the national average, and at least equal to RTD’s stellar ontime performance record for our light rail system.
In compliance with ADA regulations, there wasn’t a single access-a-Ride trip denial
in 2012.
RTD works with the disability community in a number of different ways. Several
RTD staff members participate on the DRMAC Transit Accessibility Task Force,
which also includes individuals with disabilities and staff members from several
cities and disability advocacy groups. The goal of the task force is to identify and
work to remove barriers for Access-a-Ride passengers so that they feel comfortable
using RTD fixed-route services.
The RTD Bus Operator Training Department schedules regular outings for bus
operator trainees at places like Craig Hospital, a local MS Center, and the Colorado
Center for the Blind. The training staff also works with local high schools and
individuals that need one-on-one training on boarding and riding RTD buses.
Disability awareness training is part of the on-going bus operator training at RTD
and our private contractors and is a topic of RTD refresher training and private
contractor monthly operator safety meetings.
RTD has an active ADA Customer Service panel that includes disabled fixed-route
and Access-a-Ride passengers that meets on a regular basis to address ADA-related
issues.
RTD has an active ADA Committee comprised of RTD staff members from a wide
range of RTD departments that meets as needed to address ADA-related issues.

o



XII.

RTD has consistently received awards and accolades from the disabled community
regarding our services and programs.

General Manager Washington indicated they are still performing the West Corridor
integrated testing. They are expecting on March 1 to turn this over to operations.
People will see more trains going up and down that corridor as part of this process. He
has asked the West Corridor PI team to come to the next FasTracks Monitoring
Committee to brief on the status.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Anderson requested a motion to approve the unanimous consent agenda, items A-F.

Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve the unanimous
consent agenda.

Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Menten requested that item C, April 2013 Service
Changes be removed from unanimous consent.

Director Lasater seconded this request.
Vote on
Motion:

The vote on the motion to approve the unanimous consent
agenda minus item C, April 2013 Service Changes, was
approved with 15 yes in favor and 0 against.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
A.

Approval of Additional Risk Allocation Matrix Items to Fund North Metro to 72nd

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors direct staff to move forward with implementation of the following additional Risk

Allocation Matrix (RAM) items and to use the financing capacity generated by these items
to accelerate construction of the North Metro Rail Line (NMRL) from Denver Union Station
(DUS) to 72nd Avenue.
Specifically, it is recommended that staff move forward with the following activities:


Refinancing three RTD debt issues at lower than current rates to reduce payments,
improve cash flow, and provide additional capacity under TABOR;



Issuing debt to bridge the Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) for the Eagle
project at a lower interest rate than previously assumed, saving interest costs and
preserving additional capacity under Colorado’s Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR);



Issuing sales tax revenue bonds in 3rd Quarter, 2013 to finance remaining portion
of the DUS to 72nd Avenue segment;



Initiating procurement for construction (Request for Proposals) of the NMRL to 72nd
Avenue in the next ten months.

Approval of the opportunities listed above will allow RTD to take advantage of the low
interest rates that financial markets are currently offering to accelerate the completion of
the NMRL to 72nd Avenue. This action will not impact the availability of funding from
previously-approved RAM items.
B.

Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors accept the modifications to the 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement as well as
accept these modifications for 2014.
C.

Item C Moved to Recommended Action Item G for Vote

D.
Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Taxable Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds,
Series 2013A.
E.
Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2013A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2013A.

F.
Amendment to MV Public Transportation ADA Contract ADA 17-DH-007 for award
of the Belmar, Green Mountain and Golden Call-n-Rides.
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute a contract
amendment with MV Public Transportation for the provision of the “Belmar”, “Green
Mountain” and “Golden” Call-n-Ride contracted demand response transit services under
the existing MV Public Transportation ADA contract. This contract amendment is for a
nine (9) month period from April 2013 through December 2013. The cost for the Belmar
Call-n-Ride service will not exceed $183,420, Green Mountain Call-n-Ride will not exceed
$293,172 and Golden Call-n-Ride will not exceed $234,214. The total not to exceed
amount will be $710,806. These amounts include estimates for fuel costs that are treated
as “pass through” expenses.

XIII.

Recommended Action

G.

Item C which was moved to recommended action became item G, April 2013 Service
Changes.
April 2013 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the April 2013 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately $53,200 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve the April 2013
Changes.

Service

Director Daly seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Menten shared that she has received several
complaints from her constituents. She will be voting no while she
has a chance to explore these concerns.
Director Folska commented that we really need to understand how
many of the people will be stranded without access to the feeder bus
service.
Director Daly commented that the April 2013 Service Changes that
they are being asked to approve is different from the West corridor
plan that was approved in October. Most of the changes on this
April report are seasonal in nature.

Director Menten indicated these changes create quality of life issues
especially for the senior citizens. They estimate it will add about 175
hours to their travel to work.
GM Washington reminded the Board that the West corridor plan has
already been approved. We do these changes about 3 times a year
and there will be opportunity to adjust or change if needed. Director
Bagley reiterated these were minor changes and do not affect the
West Corridor.
Director Deadwyler shared from her own personal experience and
stated they will be an opportunity to meet with the community and
staff if changes are needed. She did so and they made a change to
one of her routes. The process does work. Director Rivera-Malpiede
agreed this is a fluid process and it is important to get with staff and
your community to discuss the needs.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Folska Lasater,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Solano and Walker) and 1 opposed (Menten).

RESULT:
PASSED [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
H.

Contract Award to HNTB Corporation for Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS)

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a thirteen-month professional
services contract award to HNTB Corporation to serve as the consultant for the
Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) for an amount not to exceed $2,022,091. It is
further recommended that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $2.5
million from the Transit Development Reserve to fund the consultant contract, staff
time and specialized on-call modeling support for the NAMS. These funds will be
replenished in the 2013 Amended Budget with proceeds of the sale of the air rights at
Civic Center Station.
Item H, Contract Award to HNTB Corporation for Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS)

Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve granting the contract award
to HNTB Corporation for the NAMS.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Solano indicated that previously he was opposed to this
study. However, after further discovery, he understands the
importance of this study for moving the North forward. Considering
the issues with BNSF and looking at possible opportunities for
connectivities down the road, he will vote in favor of this study.
Director Sisk indicated this is very important for the North and
Northwest area. People from his district are enthusiastic about this
study and he provides his wholehearted support.
Director Hoy echoed Director Sisk’s comments.
Director Lubow also expressed her support. She would like to see us
get together and have consensus of where we go forward and that
this will include lots of public participation and outreach.

The motion passed 15 in favor and 0 against.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
I.

Aconex Contract Extension

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to exercise the four option years on
the contract with Aconex, in the total amount of $480,000, for Construction Management
Software as a Service, extending the end date of the contract to April 2017. Funding for
this contract in 2013 is included in the 2013 Adopted Budget, and future year funding will
be appropriated on an annual basis.
Chair Anderson called for a motion to approve Item I, Aconex Contract Extension
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve the Aconex
Contract Extension.

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 15 in favor.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
J.

Senate Bill 13-027 Board Action

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
support Senate Bill 13-027, concerning the provision of parking facilities by third parties at
or near Regional Transportation District mass transit stations, and allow RTD’s lobbyists
and staff to work with legislators to make any amendments consistent with the Board of
Directors’ intent. In addition, RTD would enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
with the City of Boulder (Boulder) that would require Boulder’s concurrence before any
existing RTD owned park-n-Ride could be sold or leased for private operation under the
amended legislation.
Chair Anderson called for a motion to approve Item J, Senate Bill 13-027 Board Action
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to approve item J, Senate Bill
13-027 Board action.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

General Counsel Marla Lien was asked to explain the City of
Boulder issues and concerns. Marla Lien stated that Boulder
was concerned about its existing Park-n-Rides. The City
wanted an IGA stating that RTD would not convert existing
Park-n-Rides to pay parking without Boulder’s agreement and
RTD has agreed to this.
Director Menten commented that she had heard from a
number of people in Aurora that they had voted down this
initiative on the ballot and they perceive it is a back door
effort to get this approved.

Director Lubow asked about an amendment and Marla Lien
responded the amendment was about the intent which is part
of the bill. There has been some discussion but no new
amendment has been introduced.
Director Lubow expressed she would feel better if there were
some elements of guarantee. Legal Counsel Lien stated there
are no guarantees.
Director Deadwyler expressed her concerns that there need to
be some form of guidelines. She would not be voting for the
charging of fees.
Director Folska indicated she had testified on this issue last
week. When she looks at the initiatives under the Risk
Allocation Matrix (RAM) which was recently approved, one of
the opportunities is for a monetization of our parking fees. All
this bill does is open up that opportunity but it does not mean
necessarily that we will charge.
Director Daly provided an update that the bill was laid over in
the Senate to a future date.
Director Lasater commented that the Board should consider
immediately an ad hoc committee to put forward some
foundational dialogue around this bill. We need to be
proactive rather than reactive. He also shared that someone
had asked the question, “Is RTD an elected body? If so, they
should take care of their own directives on this issue.
Director Sisk stated we should be explicit in our relationships
with the respective municipalities. Parking for customers at a
reasonable price does not drive customers out. RTD need to
work with its fellow constituents on this issue.
Director Walker indicated he will support this bill as it allows
staff and lobbyists to help shape this bill.
Director Folska made reference to “free rider effect” and noted
that some people who are parking free are actually passing the
cost to others. We need to be innovative in regard to our
practice and that this is consistent with the Eagle P-3 process
of putting user fees where they belong.
Director Rivera-Malpiede stated she agreed with the need for
an ad-hoc committee and if that is done she would like to see
representation from our most vulnerable communities.
Director James stated that he sees this as movement of
controls-these are small movements but allows freedom for

municipalities and private companies to manage parking more
cost effectively.
Director Bagley asked if there was an IGA with Boulder. Marla
Lien indicated the IGA was a separate document. Bagley
stated this is his point that any local government can establish
a subsidiary agreement if merited.
General Manager Washington reflected that today
approximately 13% of the RTD ridership actually park. The
majority of them use the feeder service.
Chair Anderson indicated she will support this as another tool
in our toolbox to work with our partners.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Menten,
Daly, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Folska, Lasater, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Solano and Walker) and 1 opposed (Deadwyler).

RESULT:
PASSED [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
K.

DBE Committee Name Change

It is recommended by the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Committee that the Board of
Directors change the name of the Disadvantage Business Enterprise (DBE) Committee to
the Civil Rights Committee which is more inclusive and comprehensive in scope and
responsibilities.
Chair Anderson asked for a motion to approve item K, DBE Committee Name Change
Motion:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve DBE Committee
name change.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.
The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Folska,

Sisk, Tobiassen and Walker). Director Lasater had left the room and
Director Solano abstained.
RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION AND 1 AWAY]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
AWAY:
Gary Lasater
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business
Director Folska reflected on the commitment of the people. She stated that she is aware
how hard staff works to provide service to people of disability. She believes however,
that the Board and leadership should participate in a sensitivity leadership training. She
referenced an email that she had received from someone in Director Menten’s district and
asked Director Lubow to read the email aloud.
Director Deadwyler commented about the article in the editorial and the comments that
were made at the Board meeting earlier on exclusion of the disabled to the teambuilding
session. She commented that the articles failed to note that she participated in the event
and that she is also disabled. However, she prefers not to go around highlighting this fact
but to focus on what she can do and how she can contribute as a member of the team.
Teambuilding requires different folks to play different roles. Just as the body has many
members, they each play integral roles (i.e. toe, eye, ear, feet). If the news is to be
reported, it should be reported correctly. Coming to this teambuilding session was an
option. She has been asking for a teambuilding session for over 2 years and she was
happy to participate. The purpose of the teambuilding session was to improve
relationships between the Board members so that they can focus on working together to
move the RTD business forward. It was not personal nor was it intended to be personal.
As a matter of fact, the Board office had done due diligence in working with Unser to
make sure everyone could participate. At the event itself, they had randomly assigned
positions and had called on Claudia to be the team captain who focuses on strategy. She
had elected not to be present.
Director Folska stated she found Director Deadwyler’s remarks encouraging and that she
made a valid point. She indicated there are visible and hidden disabilities and that her
disability is visible. She was offended by this teambuilding session just as the Chair might
be if they had selected to do rock climbing because of her age.
Director Lubow commented she is looking forward to the next teambuilding session.

Director Sisk requested if the Executive Session could be removed from the agenda if one
is not scheduled. Paula Perdue reminded him this serves as a placeholder as defined in the
Board Bylaws.

XVI. Executive Session
XVII. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:15 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

