1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, August 5, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District L
Director, District H
Director, District N

Present
Absent
Present

7:20 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Committee Chair

Present
Present
Present

7:20 PM
7:20 PM
7:20 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

7:20 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present

7:20 PM
7:20 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

7:21 PM
7:23 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Absent
Present

7:20 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

7:20 PM

7:24 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

7:20 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Bottini, Rick Clarke, Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Robin McIntosh Jr., Doug MacLeod, Bob Mickelson, Vivian
Morales, Thomas Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Mike Turner, Ashland Vaughn,
Michael Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Kaitlyn Benz, Jenifer Brandenberry, Jane Donovan, Tina Francon,
Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Joey Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Monte Whaley

Committee Chair Hoy excused Director Bagley from the meeting.

B. Updates

• Northeast Area Transit Evaluation (NATE) II Update
Chris Quinn, Project Manager for Planning, presented the Northeast Area
Transit Evaluation (NATE) II Update starting on page 29 of the Planning &
Development/Government Relations/FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Meetings Packet for August 5, 2014. He said the purpose of NATE II was
to expand/refine analysis of the original NATE study as requested by local
jurisdictions. Local jurisdictions requested to have the transit path follow
Highway 2 connecting with Colorado Blvd or Stapleton instead of
Downtown Denver. Included within the scope of the NATE II study is
updating environmental, transportation, land use and municipal plan
information; performing high-level fatal flaw analysis of Commuter Rail and
Light Rail alternatives; and developing Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) alternatives
and evaluations. The study is being conducted in-house by RTD staff and
on-call consultant resources.
Director Anderson said that the NATE II study is very exciting, addressing it
as a possible “Northeast Extension”. Noting the cost-effectiveness of
constructing on RTD property, she asked if RTD owned any right-of-way in
the NATE study area. She mentioned she was under the impression that
RTD may own some property in the area. Richard Clark, Assistant Manager
for Capital Programs, said that RTD doesn’t own the right-of-way in that
area. Any future projects would include negotiations with the rail owners.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, said that in 2006-07 RTD approached BNSF
Rail and Union Pacific in preparation for future public transportation options.
Both companies at the time decided not to enter into any agreements
without definite ideas and cost commitments for rail in the area.

Committee Chair Hoy reminded the Board and Staff to please be direct and
concise when giving their comments, questions, and/or answers. This, he
said, is not meant to stifle conversation.
Director Menten asked staff to send her a copy of the 2007 NATE study.
She also asked who the on-call consultant was. Bill Sirois, Manager for
Transit Oriented Development and Planning, answered that the consultant
was through the Jacobs Engineering contract. Director Menten asked if the
original study would give other options for BRT besides light rail and
commuter rail. She also asked for the time frame of the Nate II study.
Chris Quinn replied that beyond BRT, commuter and light rail there are no
other options. He also said no dates are set yet.
Director Daly asked staff if “fatal flaw” referred to projects staff would not
recommend moving forward with. Chris Quinn said that “fatal flaw”
circumstances are considered when a project encounters a barrier that it
cannot work around, for example, a superfund site. Director Daly stated
that RTD used to own property in the NATE study area. He wondered if it
was sold. Richard Clark said that RTD is trying to dispose of a property near
Ft. Lupton.
Director James asked staff to clarify about the Colorado Blvd Station, and
perhaps further south, as a potential location to end the Northeast line.
Chris Quinn said that there is interest to incorporate the line to route 40
allowing passengers a one seat bus ride to the employment centers along
that corridor.
Director Folska asked how much funding was allocated to the NATE II study.
She also asked for the study’s time frame. Chris Quinn said that there is
$150,000 allocated for the study since it is a very high level study. He
estimated a little over 12 months as the project’s timeline. Director Folska
asked if staff had an update on the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS).
Chris Quinn said that the study was sent to the stakeholders for final
reviews and comments. Staff hopes it will be available early next week.
Committee Chair Hoy asked Director Folska to take any further questions on
the NAMS offline.
Committee Chair Hoy reminded the staff and the Board of the difficulties
along the Northwest corridor. He said that it is critical for RTD to work now
with stakeholders as they make plans for future developments through a
possible corridor. He thanked staff for their work.

• North Metro Rail Line Update
Ashland Vaughn, Project Manager for Engineer, presented the North Metro
Rail Line update starting on page 39 of the Planning &
Development/Government Relations/FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Meetings Packet for August 5, 2014. The presentation included an
overview of the project elements as well as design and construction
updates. It also gave an update on the Suncor Energy Rocky Mountain
Pipeline Project.
Director Walker asked if the Suncor project would make any improvements
that would facilitate construction on RTD’s right of way. Ashland Vaughn
said that the majority of their construction is tunneling, usually at 30-50 feet
underground, rendering them of little use to RTD.
Committee Chair Hoy mentioned that he attended the Metro North Chamber
Golf Tournament on July 23rd. During the tournament, Suncor made a point
to thank RTD for our cooperation. He also mentioned that those in
attendance were very excited about the North Metro line. Their knowledge
on the project was to various degrees. He expressed his amazement at the
Suncor pipes being so deep underground.

C. Other Matters
Director Menten said that she found out about the W Line closings this weekend
through the RTD email alerts and asked how the constituents are being informed,
including those that do not get alerts and may just show up to the closed stations.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications, said that notices will
be placed in strategic locations at the stations as well as sent out through a press
release. A bus bridge will be in place to transport commuters. Austin Jenkins,
Assistant General Manager for Rail Operations, said that staff chose this weekend
as there were not many events in the community, minimizing the impact of the
closures. He also reiterated that notices will be placed on the stations, bus bridges
would be available, and probably a representative from Public Information will be on
site. He recalled that closures occurred when the W Line first opened for 3 weeks.
During this time, RTD received only 2 complaints.
Committee Chair Hoy asked if the press releases are sent to the Board members.
Scott Reed said that all press releases are included in the daily RTD clips internal
email.
Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager for Safety, Security, and Facilities,
reminded the Directors of the Light Rail Rodeo on Saturday, August 9 at 6:00 a.m.

D. Next Meeting Date - September 2, 2014
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:50 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

