Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, April 3, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Paul Solano

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL & Associates
• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - June 5, 2018
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 29, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 28, 2018

Board Meeting Date: April 3, 2018

Subject:

Local Update - CRL & Associates

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 03-27-18

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

Date:

March 27, 2018

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

Below is our update for March 2018:
1. Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) – The next full caucus meeting is scheduled for April 4,
2018, from 7:30-10 AM at the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce. Agenda items of
interest include a Mobility Choice Blueprint presentation and an update and discussion on
the proposed transportation funding initiatives.
2. Transportation Funding Initiative Update – The Coalition working to identify a

sustainable, dedicated funding source to address Colorado’s transportation infrastructure
filed a fifth initiative on Friday, March 23. This initiative will support local and
multimodal projects through a .35% sales tax increase that is expected to raise up to $432
million in the first year. Cities and counties will split 80% of the new revenue while the
remaining 20% of new revenue will be dedicated toward local and interregional
multimodal projects. The initiative will also allow the state to bond up to $3.7 billion in
projects that will be paid for with existing general fund dollars.
3. Citizens Advisory Committee – The CAC will be presenting a comprehensive quarterly

update on their activities in April, but I wanted to provide a preview of one items that I
am particularly excited about.
The Committee is developing a Transit Experience Project to (1) identify prospective
riders, (2) introduce participants to the RTD system through an experiential trip, and (3)
follow up with each participant to obtain feedback. Each CAC member will be asked to
organize one group during 2018, with the goal of hosting one tour in each RTD Director
District. The project also includes a follow-up contact with each participant to determine
if the introduction to the RTD experience was effective in encouraging them to use the
system, on either a regular or occasional basis.
4. Aurora Mayor Steve Hogan – As many of you may have heard, Aurora Mayor Steve
Hogan announced Monday that he has cancer and will not be seeking reelection in 2019.
Mayor Hogan has served the city in various capacities for 34 years. I’m sure you join me
in wishing him well as he battles this diagnosis.

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800, Denver, CO 80264 p. 303.592.5450 f. 303.592.5460 www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 03-27-18 (3409 : Local Update - CRL & Associates)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 03-27-18 (3409 : Local Update - CRL & Associates)

5. State of the City (SOTC) Addresses – Lakewood Mayor Adam Paul delivered his State
of the City address on March 8. If you are interested in viewing the address, follow this
link: https://www.facebook.com/lakewoodgov/videos/2070207719663045/, Mayors
across the region will be delivering “State of the City” addresses in the coming weeks
and I will update the list each month. Please let me know if you have an interest in
attending an address in one of the jurisdictions you represent.
 Arvada SOTC – 4/20
 Aurora SOTC – 5/10

2
Packet Pg. 5

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 29, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 28, 2018

Board Meeting Date: April 3, 2018

Subject:

State Update - Brandeberry McKenna

ATTACHMENTS:


Board Report 3.27

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.C.2.a

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

To:

RTD

Date: March 27, 2018
Re:

Board Report

BBMK is following several transportation initiatives that have been filed for possible inclusion
on the 2018 ballot. The Denver Chamber has partnered with the Colorado Contractor’s
Association, and the larger business community on a proposal called Let’s Go, Colorado.
On Friday the Joint Budget Committee closed out the 2018-19 Long Bill. Highlights of the
budget include $495 million for Transportation, $225 million to offset expected costs from the
SB18-200 PERA reform measure, $50 million set aside for the School Finance Act to further
reduce the budget stabilization factor, $18 million set aside for the Department of Higher
Education, and $5 million for orphan wells. The Long Bill leaves $40 million to fund legislative
priorities currently working their way through the system. Second Reading of the Long bill will
be on Wednesday, and Third Reading is scheduled for Thursday.
SB18-001 Transportation Infrastructure Funding sponsored by Sen Baumgardner, Sen
Cooke, Rep Buck, and Rep Carver. This legislation, supported by Senate Republican
Leadership, would require the transportation commission to submit a ballot question to the voters
in the November 2018 election that would authorize additional TRANs bonds in a maximum
amount of $3.5 billion and with a maximum repayment cost of $5 billion. The bill would repeal
Sections 3,4, and 7 of SB 267 that require the state treasurer to execute lease-purchase
agreements of up to $1.88 billion for funding high-priority qualified federal aid transportation
projects. The bill would further require 10 percent of the state sales and use tax revenue to be
credited to the state highway fund and used to make TRANs payments. Lastly, it would require
CDOT to report on the use of these funds to the House and Senate Transportation Committees.
Senator Zenzinger offered L041 which is a strike below with a start date of 2019. The
amendment includes $500 million from the general fund for transportation and a 20-year
commitment of $250 million from the general fund for the bonding. The amendment was
accepted, and the bill passed the Second Reading in the Senate. Third Reading of the bill has
been laid over.
SB18-144 Bicycle Operation Approaching Intersection sponsored by Sen Kerr and Rep
Yeulin. The bill permits a municipality or county to adopt a local ordinance or resolution
regulating the operation of bicycles approaching intersections with stop signs or illuminated red
traffic control signals. Under a local regulation, a bicyclist approaching a stop sign must slow to
a reasonable speed and, when safe to do so, may proceed through the intersection without
stopping. A bicyclist approaching an illuminated red traffic control signal must stop at the
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Board Report 3.27 (3410 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs

1.C.2.a

SB18-167 Enforce Requirements 811 Locate Underground Facilities sponsored by Sen Scott,
Sen Donovan, Rep Winter, and Rep Saine. This bill creates the Underground Damage
Prevention Safety Commission in the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment; two cash
funds to support the work of the commission and increased safety education and makes a variety
of changes to the state's excavation laws to improve enforcement. It will increase state revenue
and expenditures on an ongoing basis. It will also create new expenditure impacts for local
government entities, special districts, and the statutory public entity Colorado 811. The bill
passed Senate Finance and was referred amended to Senate Appropriations but is not yet
scheduled for a hearing. BBMK has been working with the bill sponsors to address RTD’s
concerns with the bill.
SB 18-204 Limit RTD Regional Transportation District Discount Fare Programs sponsored
by Sen Neville and Rep Lewis. The bill prohibits the regional transportation district from
offering new discount fare or incentive programs adopted after the effective date of the bill
without prior legislative approval. Director Hoy and RTD General Council provided excellent
testimony before the committee. BBMK is lobbying the full Senate asking for no votes on this
legislation. This bill passed Senate Finance and is scheduled for Second Reading on April 9th
at 9:00 am.
HB18-1278 Apprentice Utilization in Public Projects sponsored by Rep Benavidez and Sen
Moreno. This bill requires contractors employed by state agencies on public projects expected to
cost more than $500,000, awarded through competitive sealed bid, and not funded with federal
monies, to use apprentices enrolled in a registered apprenticeship program for at least 25 percent
of the workforce in apprenticeable occupations. A bid or proposal for such a project may only be
considered if it indicates that at least 25 percent of the workforce in apprenticeable occupations
will be hired to work on the project. The bill requires a contractor to submit an affidavit upon
completion of a project that it complied with the requirements of the bill or made a good faith
effort to do so. The bill allows a contractor to require its subcontractors to comply with the
requirements of the bill through a private contract. The bill has passed Second Reading in the
House.
SB18-088 Taxation of Retail Marijuana Sales was signed by the Governor on February 22nd.
BBMK has provided the appropriate RTD Executive Staff to the Department of Revenue who
have asked for a meeting to discuss the implementation of this legislation.
Faith Winter asked to meet with BBMK regarding her letter about the District’s Pass Program
working group and informed us she would be sending the attached letter to the Board. We
assured Rep Winter that we would continue to meet with her and update her on our progress.
BBMK is tracking a number of sales tax bills for any impacts to the District.
Please feel free to contact us anytime if you have questions about the legislation.
2
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Board Report 3.27 (3410 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

intersection and, when safe to do so, may proceed through the intersection. This bill is scheduled
for hearing in House Transportation on April 5th, upon adjournment.

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 29, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 28, 2018

Board Meeting Date: April 3, 2018

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update 4 3 18 (PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.3.a
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
2550 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037
+1 202 457 6000
+1 202 457 6315
squirepattonboggs.com
O
F

To:

Board of Directors, Regional Transportation District, Denver

From:

Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP

Date:

March 27, 2018

Subject:

Federal Update on Infrastructure Plan, FY 2018 Omnibus Appropriations, US
DOT Grants

President Signs Omnibus Spending Bill
On March 23, the President signed into law the FY 2018 omnibus appropriations bill providing
funding for all Federal agencies and programs through September 30, 2018. Several of RTD’s top
priorities were included in the final bill, including the last payment under the Eagle P3 full funding
grant agreement (FFGA) and language directing the U.S. Department of Transportation (US DOT)
to return credit risk premiums (CRPs) paid under the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement
Financing (RRIF) program. RTD and Squire Patton Boggs (SPB) successfully advocated that these
provisions be included in the omnibus spending bill.
Eagle P3 Funding
The omnibus bill appropriated $2.65 billion for the Capital Investment Grant (CIG) program,
including $63.3 million for the final installment under RTD’s Eagle P3 FFGA. This funding will
complete RTD’s $1.03 billion grant award for the Eagle project under the CIG program.
CRP on RRIF Loan for Denver Union Station Project
The omnibus bill included language directing US DOT to define a cohort of loans under the RRIF
program to be loans made in a single fiscal year. The bill also directs US DOT to return CRPs
within 60 days after all obligations in a cohort are satisfied. Before the omnibus bill was released, US
DOT had signaled it intended to define a cohort much more broadly, such that RTD’s CRP funds
would almost assuredly be tied up for decades.
Under the omnibus language, RTD’s RRIF cohort will likely be determined by US DOT to include
one other loan made in FY 2010. That loan – $17 million to the Great Lakes Central Railroad – is
still outstanding. Under the omnibus bill, once that loan is repaid, US DOT must return the $28.9
million CRP, plus interest, that was paid on the Denver Union Station RRIF loan. RTD and SPB
continue discussions with US DOT to explore all options for securing the return of part or all of the
CRP as soon as possible.

47 Offices in 20 Countries
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP is part of the international legal practice Squire Patton Boggs, which operates worldwide through a number of separate
legal entities.
Please visit squirepattonboggs.com for more information.

1

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Federal Update 4 3 18 (3411 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Federal Update

Infrastructure Funding Increases
The omnibus spending bill provided a meaningful increase in funding for surface transportation
programs above Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act-authorized levels. These
funding increases were made possible under the terms of the two-year budget deal reached earlier
this year. For transit, the omnibus bill includes $834 million for several formula and discretionary
programs, with nearly half of that total going to the State of Good Repair formula program. In
addition, the bill provides $2.645 billion – above the $2.30 billion authorized in the FAST Act – for
the CIG program.
Many consider this increased infrastructure funding to be a “down payment” on the
Administration’s $200 billion infrastructure proposal. Stakeholders want more and are pressing
Congress to remain committed to advancing a comprehensive infrastructure funding proposal
during FY 2018.
RTD Board Members, CEO, and Senior Staff Advocate for Priorities in Washington DC
Several members of RTD’s Board of Directors and senior staff traveled to Washington DC for the
annual American Public Transportation Association (APTA) Legislative Conference. During their
visit, Board members and senior staff met with senior FTA officials, RTD’s congressional
delegation, and authorizing and appropriations committee staff to discuss RTD’s priorities. These
priorities included the final installment of RTD’s Eagle P3 FFGA and the return of RTD’s CRP on
the Denver Union Station RRIF loan. Additionally, Board members and staff provided project
updates on the University of Colorado A Line, B Line, G Line, and Southeast Extension.
Federal Transit Administration
RTD’s Board Chair, CEO, and staff met with FTA Acting Administrator Jane Williams to discuss
project updates and the successful transit oriented development surrounding the Denver Union
Station project and the Southeast Extension. Acting Administrator Williams was impressed with the
level of transit oriented development along RTD’s lines and suggested that RTD update its map of
routes built with New Starts funding to include additional information on dates of each FFGA
award, the date of each line’s initial revenue service, the level of State and local funding in each
project.
Colorado Congressional Delegation
The meetings with the Congressional delegation focused on providing project updates and seeking
support for RTD’s final year of Eagle P3 funding and the return of RTD’s RRIF CRP. Senators
Gardner and Bennet and Rep. DeGette all agreed to help RTD in our efforts to secure return of the
CRP, including by sending letters to US DOT and relevant Congressional committees.
Transportation Authorizing and Appropriations Committees
RTD’s Board members, CEO and staff also met with authorizing and appropriations committee
staff in the House and Senate to provide project updates and advocate for the return of RTD’s
RRIF CRP and the final installment of funding for the Eagle project. Like FTA, transportation
Committee staff found the RTD map of New Starts-funded lines to be valuable and suggested some
additional information they would like to see included.

2

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Federal Update 4 3 18 (3411 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

1.C.3.a

1.C.3.a

FTA Apportions Six Months of FY 2018 Transit Formula Funds
On March 19, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) released partial-year apportionments of FY
2018 formula funds, totaling six months of funding. FTA is expected to release the remaining FY
2018 apportionments in the coming weeks, now that a full-year appropriations bill has been enacted.

3

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Federal Update 4 3 18 (3411 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Congress Begins to Consider Infrastructure Package
Since the release of the Trump Administration’s infrastructure proposal in mid-February, several
Congressional committees have held hearings to evaluate the plan as they begin the process of
drafting their own infrastructure legislation. Per Speaker Ryan, Congress may elect to include
infrastructure provisions in other related bills slated to move in 2018, such as the Water Resources
Development Act (WRDA) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization legislation,
rather than passing a single comprehensive infrastructure bill.

