Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, April 3, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Paul Solano

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
7:20 PM
7:16 PM
7:18 PM

Peggy Catlin

Director, District N

Present

7:17 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Remote
Present

7:17 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:18 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:15 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:13 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

7:17 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Committee Chair
Director, District H
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:18 PM
7:13 PM
7:19 PM
7:18 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

7:18 PM

B. Recommended Actions
There were no Recommended Actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL & Associates
Sherry Ellebracht stated that Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, was unable to attend the
meeting and that the information he had provided was included in the packet.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK), reported that the state
budget, which had passed out of the House the previous week and had made its way to
the Senate, included $495 million for transportation funding, $225 million in contributions
to the Public Employees Retirement Association (PERA), and $18 million in additional
funding for higher education. She said that the Joint Budget Committee (JBC) had also set
aside additional funding to account for Senate Bill 18-200, regarding modifications to
eliminate PERA’s unfunded liability, which was also working its way through the legislative
process. She noted that the JBC had allocated $40 million, $20 million for each chamber,
for bills stalled in the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, but she stated that
the House had overspent their allotment. She said the General Assembly regarded the
$495 million as a one-time infusion for transportation.
Regarding Senate Bill 18-001, concerning transportation bonding, Ms. Brandeberry
reported that the bill passed out of the Senate unanimously following an amendment from
Senator Zenzinger, though she noted that the House was contemplating a different
approach to the bill. She also reported that a companion bill to the state budget specified
how the $495 million transportation funding would be allocated, noting that the House
had specified a formula similar to that found in HB17-1242 and that the formula was
eventually stripped by the Senate. She stated the current form of the bill would place the
money into the Highway Users Tax Fund, but she noted that a conference committee on
the bill would likely need to be convened to work out the differences between the two
chambers.
Ms. Brandeberry stated that RTD’s innovative financing methods were highly regarded by
the General Assembly. She also spoke about Senate Bill 18-204 (SB204) by Senator Tim
Neville, which sought to bar RTD from creating any additional discount fare programs. She
said the testimony from Director Hoy and Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel, was spot
on regarding the General Assembly’s preemption of RTD’s fare programs. Though SB204
had passed out of the Senate Finance Committee and was scheduled for second reading,
Ms. Brandeberry said she did not expect the bill to pass and said that Senator Neville had
made his point.

Director Broom asked whether the conference committee on the state budget would be
composed of members of the JBC, and Ms. Brandeberry said that was correct.
Director Lubow asked how it came to be that the state suddenly had an additional $495
million for transportation funding that was not required to be refunded under the provisions
of the Taxpayers Bill of Rights (TABOR).
Ms. Brandeberry said that the General Assembly had created an enterprise to receive
hospital provider fee payments from the federal government and that, as a result,
additional revenues were freed up in the state budget.
Director Lubow asked whether a similar situation could happen in 2019.
Ms. Brandeberry said it would depend on the budget forecast, though she said that none
of her colleagues expected a similar scenario would play out.
Director Lubow asked whether the Senate and House had different ideas on how to spend
the transportation money.
Ms. Brandeberry said that both chambers thought that transportation spending was a
priority. She stated that the reason the state had not been successful in the past in
receiving transportation funding was that the stakeholders would fight about how to spend
the money before they even received it. She said that there were different philosophies on
how the money would flow but noted that there would be a lot of positioning before the
budget process was finished.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, said that the Directors who recently attended the APTA
Legislative Conference were rewarded by getting to see good things happen in
Washington, D.C. He noted that Congress had passed an omnibus spending bill for 2018,
which would allow RTD to receive the final $63 million installment of the full funding grant
agreement (FFTA) for the Eagle P3 project. Regarding the reimbursement of the risk
premium on RTD’s Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) loan for the
Denver Union Station project, he said the federal government had narrowed the criteria on
how that premium would be paid back. He stated that RTD had been grouped in a cohort
with the Great Lakes Central Railroad (GLCRR), which still owed $17 million on its own
RRIF loan, and he noted that RTD was the only entity to have paid back its loan in the
history of the program. Mr. Dino reported that the conference attendees had also spoken
with the congressional delegation about the President’s infrastructure proposal, though he
noted that the aide in charge of that program, D.J. Gribbin, had recently resigned. He
reported that Congress had approved across-the-board budget increases for federal
agencies, though the President’s budget requested reductions for Transportation and
Housing and Urban Development.

Director Lubow asked whether the increased federal departmental funding might translate
into more money for unfunded corridors.
Mr. Dino said that would not be likely, given that there had not been any significant
changes made to the rules governing the award of transit project funding. He said the
transportation reauthorization would need to come first before any changes in policy
would take place.
Director Lubow asked whether it would be correct to say that rule changes would be
necessary to allow access to the increased funding in the congressional budget.
Mr. Dino said that the capital investment program that funds transit programs was itself
funded, which he felt would bode well for the future. He said that the President wanted to
reduce capital investment grants for transportation, though Congress did not agree. He
added that the intention of his firm was to go after as much transportation funding as
possible, though he said the rules would have to change to be more favorable for
investment. He said that, in a discussion with Congressman Polis, Chair Tisdale said that,
when RTD lobbied for money, the agency would like to think that it was lobbying for the
North West Rail Project.
Director Lubow asked how to get to the next step.
Mr. Dino said that a discussion needed to be had regarding possible solutions. He stated
that changing the rules to make things more flexible had been a major challenge with
agencies and Congress, since there was never enough money to go around. He indicated
that RTD had to have been competitive just to receive the money it had already gotten. He
said the agency had lobbied previously just to keep things the way they were and cited the
Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) as an example.
Director Lubow asked whether it was correct to say that the door was not currently open
for funding.
Mr. Dino said that it would be correct to say that the corridors were not currently eligible
for federal funding.
Chair Tisdale expressed his appreciation for Mr. Dino’s report and his support in
Washington, D.C. Regarding the credit risk premium, he said that the $29 million would
eventually be repaid with interest and asked which interest rate would be applied.
Mr. Dino said that the question was asked in Washington, D.C., but not answered.
Ms. McKillop said that the rate was not specified in law. She said the agency was working
with the Department of Transportation (USDOT), which indicated there was never the
anticipation that RRIF loan recipients would ever pay back the loans. She said that RTD
requested that the interest be paid at least at the Treasury rate, and she indicated the
interest period would begin at the time the loan was repaid in 2017. She indicated that

she and Patty Doersch, from Squire Patton Boggs, had discussed how to convince the
other cohort participant, the GLCRR, to repay their loan.
Chair Tisdale said that a provision in state law prescribed that any rate of interest not
specified in a contract would be paid at the judgment rate of interest by default, and he
questioned whether a parallel provision might exist at the federal level.
Mr. Dino replied that it should be determined whether the GLCRR, the other participant in
the cohort, intended to pay off its RRIF loan. He said it might take longer for RTD to
receive its money if there were to be a debate on the applicable interest rate.
Director Solano asked whether a bill regarding vendor fees had been introduced in the
General Assembly.
Ms. Brandeberry said that a bill had been introduced in an interim committee in 2017 and
was subsequently rejected. She said that bill’s sponsor, Representative Winter, did not
intend to introduce another such bill in the 2018 regular legislative session.
Director Broom asked for a status update on a court case concerning certain special
districts’ ability to collect and retain marijuana taxes.
.
Mr. Asphaug said that the case was pending before the Colorado Supreme Court. He said
the court would soon decide whether RTD would need to submit a ballot question in order
to collect and retain marijuana taxes.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 5, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Solano adjourned the meeting at 7:44 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

