March 10, 2020
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
SHELLY COOK: The Tuesday, March 10, 2020 Financial Administration and Audit Committee,
please. We've lost a couple of members. Kate Williams and Chair Rivera-Malpiede had to depart.
But we'll go ahead and get going with the rest of our agenda here, and thank you all.
We don't have any recommended actions today, so we'll just proceed right into the updates if that's
OK. And we have first on their Salary Defined Benefit Pension Plan update, and Heather McKillop
and Wendy, please proceed and introduce yourselves.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Hi, this is Heather McKillop. And I just wanted to lead off that each
March-- sometimes in February, but usually in March-- we bring forward to you an update on the
Regional Transportation District's Salaried Employees Pension Plan, of which I am a trustee on
that plan. And then next will come the Union Defined Benefit Pension Plan, which Doug MacLeod,
who is a trustee, will introduce the actuarial for that plan and go through that update.
So Wendy Londa is here. She has been here as long as I've been here, the last four or five years,
doing the presentations. She is with Rael & Letson is the actuarial. And I just wanted to remind
you that today is really the update on the status of the plan from a financial perspective and an
actuarial perspective. We're not going to be having a discussion around contributions to the plan,
either this or the union plan at this time. Those will come later in the year. But this is just to give
you the financial update of where those plans stand from a funded and unfunded standpoint. So
with that, I'm going to turn it over to Wendy to do her update.
WENDY LONDA: Good evening, everybody. Sorry it's getting so late for you. I'll try to be quick
with my comments. So I'm here, as Heather said, to talk about the Salaried Plan. I'm going to start
off by giving you the valuation highlights as of January 2019, and I'll move into some long-term
funding of the plan, projections, and then finally, just with a few final comments.
So we have a chart here that shows you the key valuation results as of January 2018 and January
2019. I'll go through some of these. I'll focus mostly on the Change column. So the total participant
count and the active participant count both decreased during the year, as expected. The plan is
close to new participants, so we'd expect the counts to go down.
The accrued liability is the value of all benefits earned during the year and promised to those who
have already retired. And it went up just over half a million, and this because active participants
are still continuing to earn benefits in the plan. The actuarial value of assets is a smooth value.
That went down by a million because of the market return in 2018, if you recall, was a negative
5.1% return, so it was a poor year. So of that loss, we're only recognizing 20% of that loss on a
smooth value. So over a five-year period, we recognize that full loss. So it smooths it in.
The unfunded liability is the difference between the promised benefits and the amount of assets
that we have. That's basically like the plan's mortgage or debt that has to be paid off over a period

of time. So that went up because the assets went down and the liabilities went up. So, hence, the
difference went up by 1.6 million.
And the funded ratio-- this is what % of the promised benefits are covered by your assets. We look
at it on two bases, the smooth value of assets and the market value of assets. So on a smooth value,
the funded percentage went down by 0.8%, so 78.8 to 78%, but on a market value basis went down
by 8.5%, from 81.3 to 72.8%. So you can see in the market value basis the full impact of that
negative 5.1 loss versus-- not loss but return-- versus our 7% assumption, it's a 12.1% loss. So it's
fully recognized in that funded ratio, but the actuarial, only 20% of that is recognized. So that's
why there's much less of a loss there.
The recommended contribution is the cost of benefits earned plus that debt payment for the
unfunded liability, and that went from 8 million to 8.1 million, so just a slight change. And that is
the recommended contribution for the following fiscal year. So the 8 million recommended
contribution as of 1/1/18 is for the 2019 fiscal year, and the 8.1 million recommended contribution
is for the 2020 fiscal year. And then the actual contributions are actually what was made in the
prior year. So the 4.6 million were made in 2017, and 5.1 million was made during 2018.
Are there any questions on this page before we go on to the long-term funding. A lot of numbers.
OK.
SHELLY COOK: Anybody have any questions?
WENDY LONDA: OK. So on the next page-- so there's been no change in the board's funding
policy since 2016. It continues to be based on the actuaries' recommended contribution as well as
the CFO-- Heather's-- recommendation. And I wanted to first start with where we were last year,
how I concluded last year's presentation, where we were as of January 2018. We were reflecting
at that time an estimated return of 5.2%, and at that point, we were expecting a $5.6 million
contribution each year, and under those terms, the plan was not projected to achieve 100% funding.
Only if recommended contribution was made were they expected to achieve 100% funding in
2031.
So what happened since we were last here? So the actual investment return was negative 5.1%, so
slightly better than the preliminary return of negative 5.2%. And that translated to a $3 million
asset loss where we had an offsetting liability gain of 2.4 million. And that was due primarily to
fewer-- lower salaries than expected and more deaths than expected. So we had a gain in liabilities
for that.
And then the operating expense assumption, we increased that because we're projecting to have
higher expenses for the plan, from 135, 00 to 140,000, with a 2% annual increase after that. And
then the actual contribution was only 5.1 million versus our expected of 5.6. So the contribution
levels stayed the same from 2018 to 2019. So now let's see what happens when we reflect those
results.

So the 2019 results, with our 5.1 million contribution-- so now we're half a million dollars less
than what we originally expected, but we do have a slightly offsetting liability gain. So we're still
not projected to achieve 100% funding if we assume $5.1 million contribution each year.
So then what happened since then, since our January 2019 results? Two really good things-- $6.1
million contribution was approved for 2020. And we also had a really good year of-- let's not think
about 2020, but 2019 was a really good year for the market. So the planned achieve preliminary
return is 16.5% versus our assumed return of 7%. So it's a 9.5% gain. And again, we'll recognize
only 20% of that gain in our smooth value of assets. So we've got gains leftover to help offset the
loss from 2018 and going forward. So it kind of phased it in, so you don't have these big
fluctuations like you do for the market value.
So now when we recognize the $6.1 million contribution and a 16.5% return, it's looking a little
different. Sorry, I meant to change that. So if we assume a $6.1 million contribution each year,
now the plan is expected to achieve 100% funding in 2034. And the recommended contribution
expected to drop below 6.1 million in 2034.
So because we're contributing less than what the recommended amount is, we're pushing costs
down the line. The recommended contribution under this scenario increases from 8.3 million in
2021 up to 19 million in 2031, which is the end of the current amortization period, which is 12
years.
But if the recommended contribution is made, 100% funding is achieved three years earlier in
2031, and the recommended amount drops below 6.1 million in 2028. So in this scenario, the
recommended contribution continues to decrease after 2021 down to 4.5 million in 2031.
So you can see the impact. The plan is very sensitive to investment returns. Last year it was not
looking very well. This year, now we had a really good return in 2019, it's looking much better.
So because the plan is small and closed, it's very sensitive to investment returns.
So the next page we'll just show this graphically. Sometimes it's easier to see it in a picture format.
So we have two graphs here. The top graph is the funded percentage. So again, this is what percent
of your promised benefits are covered by your assets. The lines are pretty close here. The green
line represents if the recommended contribution is made each year, and the blue line assumes a
$6.1 million contribution each year. So you can see by 2031-- well, hopefully you can see, a little
bit small up there-- by 2031, the recommended contribution is made, the plan is 100% funded. And
by 2034, if $6.1 million is made, the plan achieves 100% funding.
So they're both 100% funded by 2034, and by 2037 they're nearly identical, so very close. So you
can see, there's not too much impact there. The biggest impact is in the second graph below, which
is the recommended contribution. So if less money is put in now, it pushes the costs down later.
So then the recommended contribution has to go up because we're pushing some of the costs down
the line.
So again, the green bar represents the recommended cont-- if the recommended contribution is
made, you can see if you're covering the cost of benefits and you're paying your mortgage off, the

costs go down because the plan is closed, there's no new people coming in. So the costs go down.
But if you don't pay all of that, you pay less than the recommended amount, then the recommended
contribution goes up until the end of the amortization period, when a big payment is expected.
So more money and earlier has a chance to earn investment income as opposed to less money, and
now you've got to put more in later. Any questions on that?
SHELLY COOK: Questions right now?
WENDY LONDA: Then finally just wanted to wrap up by saying, so we'll continue to monitor
the plan's funding levels, recommended contributions. We'll review the assumptions and methods
on an annual basis and keep you informed each year. So if you don't have any other questions,
that's the end of the presentation.
SHELLY COOK: OK, thank you. I will open it up for any questions or discussion. Chair-- sorry,
Doug Tisdale, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just looking at the next steps, the one
thing that strikes me because this issue has been of significant interest to one of the sponsors of
proposed Senate Bill 20-151, and the pension funding has been a big part of that discussion-- in
terms of policies adopted by other public pension plan systems, we are, in fact, acting consistent
and congruent with policies of other public pension plan systems, are we not?
WENDY LONDA: Agree.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. I just want to get that on the record so that people understand it's not that
we've gone off on a frolic and detour and acted in an irresponsible manner. We're acting the way
other public pension plan systems act.
WENDY LONDA: Correct. A lot of other ones have been decreasing their interest rate
assumption, and we as well did that two years ago, I think it was. Last year? Two years ago.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Last year.
WENDY LONDA: Yeah, last year.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate it. That's all. Madam Chair.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Tisdale then reminds me that other
organizations, agencies in Colorado, also use the Leeds School of Business for their economic
forecasting like we do. Would that be correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. That is correct.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And do you recall what the forecast was for the economic outlook? I mean,
please correct me if I'm wrong. It was flat and negative for a variety of reasons-- sales tax revenue,
that is.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. Actually, it wasn't flat. It was growing at
a much lower rate. We had originally had for 2019 6.2%, I believe it was, and we lowered that
down to around 4-something. I'm looking at Doug. I don't know where he is. And then-- is Doug
standing? So then from that point on, the estimates were lower but still in a positive. So we never
went negative with those forecasts.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But they were low moving into the future like, five, six years. I mean, it
wasn't like, oh, it's a bonanza. And that's because of an aging population that doesn't buy stuff, and
the millennials who love experiences. Director Lewis, is that right? OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, there's a lot of reasons, but those are some of the reasons cited in
their report. Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so-- sort of the general economic outlook for, say, the state of Colorado
and RTD are fairly similar, parallel, because we're both operating under Tabor with a sales tax
revenue as our income.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. And we also use the same underlying model, which is Moody's
analytical model.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I just thought it needed to be clarified a little more for the record.
Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And Madam Chair, if I might just also add, they'll be here next month
in April, CU Leeds to do their presentation.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excellent. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So my question, first of all, starts with-- I'm sorry, is it Wendy?
Is it all right if I call you Wendy?
WENDY LONDA: Of course, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, great. OK. So you're an actuary, and your role is taking the
numbers and deciphering what they mean. But you must deal with a lot of-- I'm guessing a lot of
public agencies.
WENDY LONDA: We do deal with some, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Would that be correct? And you review a lot of pensions?

WENDY LONDA: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: For public agencies?
WENDY LONDA: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Now that I've kind of identified that you should be able to maybe
answer these questions, what I'm coming down to is, in our defined contribution plan, the way we
have it set up is that there is 9% by the contribution, by the employer, which is the taxpayer.
WENDY LONDA: That changed, actually. That was-- back in 2013 it changed.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, she's talking about a different-- she's not familiar with our definedSHELLEY COOK: That was my question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --contribution plan at all. defined contributions, sorry. She doesn't deal
with that. We don't have an actuarial because it's not a pension plan.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so just the DB.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right, well, that ends that line of questions. So-- perhaps not. I
mean, we do have you on-- you were paid to come here, so perhaps you can add a little bit to the
conversation. Would you say with public agencies and a defined contribution plan, have you run
into many public agencies where the taxpayer or employer contributes, but the employee pays in
0 to the defined contribution plan? Is that rare? Is that common?
WENDY LONDA: I don't deal with too many defined contribution plans, so it's hard-- I don't
know if these guys do many defined contribution plans. But I know another one I have, they both
contribute, employer and employee.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's very much what I would be familiar with, like PERA, where
both sides would contribute.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is a pension plan, not a defined contribution plan. It's a defined
benefit plan.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: They're very different.
WENDY LONDA: Usually defined contribution is voluntary.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
WENDY LONDA: Employees' part is voluntary.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, all right. Thank you.
WENDY LONDA: Remember, we are doing a compensation and benefit survey this year, so we'll
have that information for you in the fall.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, just speaking to that, I am not clear. I am not clear what the state
auditor's scope is. I'm not clear if we're holding because of Senate Bill 151. I'm really not sure
where we stand on that specific point. But if you want to-WENDY LONDA: So I'm not talking about the state auditor. I think we have mentioned numerous
times that we are doing a classification compensation, and we added benefits. We had written that
scope of work, and we added benefits in January to that scope of work. And we're going out shortly
with that, contracting for that. And so we're hoping to have that done this fall. But that is totally
separate from whatever the state auditor's may or may not do.
NATALIE MENTEN: And regardless of 151?
WENDY LONDA: Correct. That's already been in the works. The only change that we made was
after last fall's discussion on the pension and benefits, I added that to the scope of work, so we had
to rewrite the scope of work to include that. That's why it's not-- that contract isn't executed yet.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And did the request for proposals already go out?
WENDY LONDA: No, we're contracting based on a sole source with Mountain States-- not
Mountain States, the emp-- whatever they're calling themselves now.
NATALIE MENTEN: Employers Council?
WENDY LONDA: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: You're welcome.
WENDY LONDA: Sorry, it's from the old days.
NATALIE MENTEN: So we're using Employers Council? OK, that answers the questions for
now. Thank you very much.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you Director Menten. Vice Chair Bob Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. In looking at this report, it makes you kind of scratch your head.
The two columns are January 1, 2018, January 1, 2019. You'd say, gee, shouldn't we be looking at

January 1, 2020? I mean, you know, normally when an audit comes out, maybe it's three years
after the end of the period. But, you know, we're talking quite a-- you know, a year.
WENDY LONDA: Generally, we don't even have the data yet to do our January 2020 valuation.
We typically get that in April, and we present it to the salaried plan board in August or September.
BOB BROOM: Oh, OK.
WENDY LONDA: The only thing we can have at this point are the assets and preliminary assets,
because the audit isn't done for this year either. That's usually done in the summer, I think.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It should be done.
SHELLY COOK: All right. So one question is-- if I may piggyback on yours-- would it make
sense to move it up so we could have the presentation in conjunction with our budget discussions
or adoptions in fall, for example. Sorry, Vice Chair.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather. So we could do that. I do present an
overview of that in the Board action when I talk about the background and stuff. So I do go on the
most recent information that the trustees have received when I make the recommendation to the
Board as to what the actuarial's recommendation is versus the CFO recommendation. And then I
also discuss what the current estimate is for funded, unfunded, those type of things. But if it makes
more sense to have her come back and do that presentation before we make that recommendation
to the Board, we can do that also.
SHELLY COOK: It may be worth discussing. Forgive me, Vice Chair Bob Broom. Go ahead. OK,
thank you. It looks like there's nobody else. So thank you, Miss Lomax, and thank you, Heather
McKillop. So next up, we have the Union Defined Benefit, this is represented a defined benefit
pension plan, again CFO and Doug MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. This is Doug MacLeod, Comptroller. Tonight, Thomas Lyle
from Gabriel Roeder Smith is with me. He's our actuary on the ATU trust. I also would like to
recognize Paul Wood from Gabriel Roeder Smith, who is one of Thomas' colleagues, as well as
Lance Longenbohn, who is the Chair of the Trust and also the President of the ATU. And he's with
his executive staff from the ATU. Thomas, it's all yours.
THOMAS LYLE: All right. Thank you for the opportunity to speak before you guys this evening.
It is my goal tonight to kind of give you an overview of the status of the ATU Pension Plan. And
there's really two major takeaways from this presentation. One is that the plan is doing better than
it has in years past, and we're going to show a little bit more about that. Part of that is due to the
additional contributions. There's no $6.2 million contributions that have been going in annually
that's helped improve the funding status of the plan. And additionally, we had good asset returns
in 2019, which helped improve the plan. And the second big point is that continued support and
contributions are likely going to be needed in order to maintain the health of the plan in the long
run.

Just to kind of give you an overview, this chart here shows the history of the funded ratio of the
plan. Now, the funded ratio is just one of the measures we use to measure the health of a plan. It's
not the only measure, but it's a measure. So you can see on this chart that since 2013 or so, the plan
has been kind of stagnant around that 50% mark, just under that 50% funded mark. Now, this is
essentially just the ratio of the assets to the liabilities of the plan.
So the reason we got here is, you can see in 2008, there was that big drop. And then around 2012
we lowered our [INAUDIBLE] rate. So a couple of things have happened since those drops in the
plan to help improve the funding of the plan. One is Amendment 22, where the new hires, anybody
hired after 2011, would go into a new tier of benefits, a new benefit structure. And all of the
provisions are up there. I won't go through all the details, but that's helped lower the cost of the
plan to help improve the funded ratio. In addition to that, the additional contributions the plan has
made has helped.
So back to the funded ratio. The chart we looked at before was just the history of the plan, showing
where we were in the past. This chart here shows a projection of the future. The red line is just
based on our 1/1, January 2019 valuation that says, OK, well, what happens to plan with the funded
ratio going on?
So one of the big points to make here is that this is better than the past because previously we've
been here telling you that this is going to zero, that the plan was going to run out of assets. But
currently the plan is not projected to do that. In addition, the blue line on the chart shows the
impacts of one-year returns. So after one year of 2019, that's the impact on the plan. So as you can
see, the plan is sensitive to individual returns.
One of the other points we would like to make is the cost of waiting. Money now in a plan typically
yields more value than money later in a plan. And that's one of the reasons why we try to fund
pension plans. If we go on the baseline scenario, you can see on this chart here, that is your first
bar. And this graph is just showing how much of the plan benefits are going to be paid by
contributions versus how much of the plan benefits are going to be paid for by our investment
earnings. So at the baseline scenario, we're looking at 25% of the benefits are being paid for. So
you can see that under the two hypothetical scenarios that we presented there, one is with the $6.2
million continuing and one was just the hypothetical of if that doubled-- you can see that more
money now yields more benefit payments in the future.
So in summary, the plan is doing better. Things are looking better than it has in many years past.
But it's likely that we're going to need to continue to have additional support in order to maintain
the health of the plan. And with that, I'll open to questions.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, [INAUDIBLE]. Any questions for Mr. Lyle or Heather McKillop
or Doug MacLeod. OK, Natalie, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. What would be a good reference guide to get comparables on
employee versus employer contribution in a situation similar to what we have here?

THOMAS LYLE: So that's public information, and we can put together something for you for
that. Public employee plans, they have that information publicly available. So I forget the-- I forget
the name of the entity.
NATALIE MENTEN: Because I've reached out to Bureau of Labor Statistics, there's Colorado.
I'm just not sure I'm getting my hands on the right information, so that's why I'm asking.
THOMAS LYLE: OK. I don't have the information right in front of me, but we can look at it and
get you some information on that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. I would be grateful if you'd have comparables for me.
THOMAS LYLE: OK.
SHELLY COOK: Any other questions, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, that's it. Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I'm sorry. May I narrow that down? Just-- contribution rates. When I
say comparables, you could, once you walked away, think, oh my gosh, where does that end?
THOMAS LYLE: Well, I assume you are talking about contribution rates. So the discussion of
contribution rates is much wider than that as well. So it's not just how much does a plan get, but
how much are they contributing per their benefits, so there is more to the discussion as well. But
we can definitely look at what public plans are paying for the rates. It's the Public Fund Survey is
available, and that has that information.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Thank you. And I'm sorry. I just didn't want to send him away
with, like, the world. OK, thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Director Mihalik, go ahead, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Lyle. When you-- I'm going
back to an earlier slide. It's the history of the funded ratio. It's the kind of ski slope down. You
characterize this as the plan is doing better than it has in years.
THOMAS LYLE: Recent history. Obviously this chart shows that there was a time in the early
2000s when it was 100% funded.
KEN MIHALIK: But even when I go back, it looks like both the green and the blue data points
are the lowest they've ever been.
THOMAS LYLE: So when I'm talking about what the plan's doing, I like to look at what's being
done in the future so we'd look at the other funded ratio chart. So the plan is doing better because

many times in the past, we have had this plan projected to run out of money, not have enough
funds, to go to 0%. So the plan is no longer projected to be insufficient of funds. So that's one
measure we're looking at.
KEN MIHALIK: So when I look to that, which chart would I look to the projected health?
THOMAS LYLE: So that's top of page 5.
KEN MIHALIK: Is that the projected baseline?
THOMAS LYLE: Correct. Oh, so yeah, the red line is the baseline. And then the blue line is rolling
forward the liabilities to 2020, and then assuming the asset return that was earned for the year
2019.
KEN MIHALIK: So that's taking 2019's and using that for the future?
THOMAS LYLE: So it's 2019 liabilities rolled forward and then recognizing the asset returns that
were gained in 2019. So it's essentially recognizing-- no, it's not accruing that all the way out. It's
assuming the plan assumption after 2019.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a few questions. The vesting from 5 years to 10
years, Heather, do you know-- well, 10 years is a long time, particularly for a millennial-- do you
know if we collect that information, as people are separating from the agency, if that is a reason
that one would separate the five years versus 10 years, or anything in between?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, we don't collect that level of detailed information unless they
volunteer that at their separation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. It might be interesting just for us to know if folks may or may not see
that as a benefit or not. And then-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I could talk to Jeff. We were just talking about some of those more exit
survey type things.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. 10 years just seems like a really long time to be vested, and so I'd just- I'd ask about it. And then the elimination of sick and vacation payouts in the calculation, can you
tell me what that means, because I'm not sure I understand it.
THOMAS LYLE: It's just included in the benefit calculations. So the benefit, they can include that
in the service. I'm not a specific-- I don't have the specific final language memorized, but it
essentially includes the benefit is increased because of it.

SHONTEL LEWIS: So does that mean that we would not be paying out sick and vacation time if
someone is separating from the agency?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, that's not what it means. It means for purposes of calculating their
pension, that is not included in that calculation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. OK, thank you. That's it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Which does vary from plan to plan.
SHELLY COOK: All set? Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you for your presentation. I have some basic questions, so
forgive me, because it's-- but it's interesting. What we were told is that the plan is in better shape
than it's been. And it's no longer going to run out of money, but it's only at 50% funded. I don't
know what that means in terms of if I were an employee under this plan, am I jumping for joy that
I'll have no problems? Or yes, I'll have problems when I'm set to retire. I don't understand enough
to know, should we be very worried about this? Should we be doing other things about it? I don't
think legally we're responsible, but we may have some moral and PR responsibility, so to speak.
THOMAS LYLE: I mean, I can't comment on the legality of any of it, but the idea that the plan
has a funded-- the projected funded ratio, by the way, is assuming that there are no additional
contribution dollar amounts, which is that $6.2 million that's currently a part of the collectively
bargained agreement. This projection doesn't assume those are being in there, so that's the other
point I was trying to make, is that the plan is doing better, but it's going to continue to need support.
So it's not projected to run out of money, but in order to get to a full funded situation, it will need
additional funds to get there, or excess returns.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. Just to add a little bit to that-- so, as you
mentioned, in the current collective bargaining agreement, there's an additional $6.2 million annual
contribution at the beginning of the year. Timing's very important, because the other contributions
are done over every month versus at the beginning year, so that was a major negotiation point. So
we're the collective bargaining agreement is up in the spring of 2021, so we'll be going through
this process over the next year to have those negotiations.
And what they're saying is they-- and because the CBA ends after 2021, they can't make
assumptions that we're going to contribute that contribution past March of 2021. So once we do
the next collective bargaining agreement, depending on what's negotiated for that, then that will
go into that calculation, and that could change the number significantly, one way or the other.
JUDY LUBOW: So we would see a different graph?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Potentially yes, depending on what was negotiated.

JUDY LUBOW: And I guess where I'm kind of still scratching my head is, what's a good graph?
I mean, is this a good plan? Is this something that we want to be associated with? I mean, I can't
figure that part out.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, that's kind of a trick question, but-JUDY LUBOW: It's not.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --our employees are in that plan, so currently we would like to be
associated with the plan. That is a different answer then are we legally required to be associated
with the plan. But right now, these are our employees. And so we want to try to keep that plan as
solvent as possible with funding that we can afford. And that's a difficult balance right now. So
what can we afford, and how do we keep the plan solvent? And the 6.2 is what we thought we
could do last time to be able to meet that, as well as that's on top of the 13% contribution that RTD
makes per employee also. So it's 13% per month per employee plus $6.2 million cash infusion at
the beginning of the year.
JUDY LUBOW: So will part of the presentation to the board about the CBA is going to be about
our contribution and will be a discussion of what this graph is going to look like-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that-JUDY LUBOW: --in the future?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --will be part of the discussion when we come to you to talk about the
CBA.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: As well as salary and all the other provisions of the CBA.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Anybody else? So I would just piggyback on Dr. Lewis' comments-- there are
other provisions I believe, especially for employees after the Amendment 22 took effect, that
would be interesting to hear, whether those are issues that affect turnover and such among the
union employees as we identify our interests going into those negotiations. So I agree with that
idea. And then are you able to do a presentation earlier just in case we decide to do this in
conjunction with our budget review process?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we need to talk to the union about that and the trustees, but we'll ask
them if they're OK with doing that presentation after-- you would have the same timing as your
information is available in the fall, right?
THOMAS LYLE: Yeah, if we get the data in.

SHELLY COOK: OK, thank you very much.
THOMAS LYLE: Yeah, we're local. We can be here.
SHELLY COOK: OK. OK, it looks like we're done with that. Thank you, gentlemen and Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Jeanette's going to come up. The next item on the agenda is to walk
you through-- and we're not going to walk you through in detail, we're just going to take any
questions. But I just wanted to mention, this is our annual calendar that incorporates the Board
2021 Budget, the Mid-Term Financial Plan for 2021 through 2026, and the Long-Term Financial
Plan, 2021 through 2050. We had to add another 10 years this year. We do have to adopt a longrange plan this year for purposes of incorporation in the DRCOG RTP.
One of the things we tried to do-- so the calendar looks just slightly different than the past-- is
we're also trying to make sure we're feeding information at the correct time into the reimagined
RTD process and also the mobility plan for the future. So that's a little complicating factor on this.
And so we'd like to stick to these dates, but know that they might be flexible depending on when
different things need to be done for different things that are going on in the organization this year.
But we would prefer not to adopt a budget in December and do it much sooner. So we'll be
concentrating on doing that. That was a little too close for comfort. So we'll be working towards
that goal. I'll see if Jeanette wants to add anything to that.
JEANETTE: No. Let me just say, things change.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We were very flexible last year.
SHELLY COOK: OK. It looks like if you all are done, it looks like we have a question. Director
Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think you led into it perfectly, things change. So coming out of our retreat,
I was maybe the only one that was a little bit confused what our message was out of the retreat.
When we amended 2020 goals, perhaps we moved 2020 goals to 2021, but I'm not clear if we
decided on that. And I'm wondering how that confusion then leads into any amended 2020 budget
and creation of the 2021. Was I the only one confused after Saturday a little bit?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I can tell you my interpretation. You can tell me if that was totally
wrong. So where I walked away from it is we'll probably be looking at some changes to 2020
which then would lead us into the amended budget process, if any of it results in any budgetary
concerns, by modifying those goals from how we had originally developed the 2020 budget based
on the previous goals. And they're being tweaked just a little bit, maybe the priority.
Going forward for 2021, my understanding is part of the tactical plan will be putting together, like
we normally do with the measures, will be identifying those things for 2021 and perhaps what the
additional costs may be to do some additional programs or plans or modify what we're doing now.
So that would be incorporated in the 2021 through 2026. But I don't really know what that looks
like until we work through some of those things that came out of the retreat. And once we work

through that in the next month or-- I think month or so, through the end of April-- then we'll be
able to better answer those questions about how they affect the amended, and then the mid and
long-term plans, and then ultimately the 2021 budget.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, one point on Saturday, you said something about let's talk about 2020
and then maybe have another retreat, which really none of us do want to spend another Saturday.
And I would have seconded that motion. We never got to that point, though, Heather. But that was
what I just we-HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll see how far we get with what we have.
NATALIE MENTEN: --walked away with a lot of fuzzy kind of things happened there in the
afternoon. So anyway-HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I'll just let you know, we've started that process of discussing the
2021 through '26 with the information we have right now with the Board members. So we'll be
meeting with each of you to have that conversation over the next couple of weeks.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. You know, what strikes me as an opportunity-- and this
may not be surprising for you, Heather-- is for us to bring our communities and our constituents
along for this journey, as we're settling in on the budget. I know we've talked about different
programs that we might use that might make these things consumable for our writers or our
communities, our constituents. And so for me, what's missing within this timeline is how we are
working with communities to understand our budget, our budget priorities, where there are tradeoffs within our budget, what's it mean to eliminate something, what it means in terms of our
deferred projects list. I think that would just generally be helpful for folks to get a better grasp of
RTD.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. If I can just respond to that. So that is an
excellent point. We could probably find opportunities to do that in this calendar, but a lot of the
more technical pieces of it, we were hoping that that would be done through the system
optimization plan, since such a large part of our budget is the operating piece of the budget. And
then ultimately, we'll be sharing with you the asset management list that's been developed through
the next couple of weeks. But we can go back and look at the things that may not be covered
through the operations piece of it, such as the asset piece and other things that we have to deal with
and make decisions around.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You mean like going out to the public or inviting the public in to be able to
grapple with those things, OK, thank you. That's wonderful. Thank you so much.
SHELLY COOK: Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Heather, I just want to echo Director Lewis'
comments. I think that even if it's more high-level-- and, for me, simple is better to try better to
educate our constituents and of everybody in our district how RTD is funded and operates, every
single time I do that, people come up to me and say-- and I'm talking so simple, right, just the fare
box, sales tax, government grants, even that simple-- and what our budget is, people really
appreciate it. And they have a new perspective. And it kind of takes a lot of the air out of the sail.
You know, there's not a lot of strife after that. So thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Anybody else. Just to add my two cents, I agree. And of course, we've been
talking about setting up a demonstration with something that is like what you are proposing, and I
think if other directors are interested-- Shontel Lewis is already involved in that, but I expect we
can post that and certainly have more than one of us or more than two of us there. So thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, Madam Chair, I-- if you're going to do that, let me know, because
I was only planning on having two and not having it be an open meeting. And so I was trying to
coordinate that schedule when we meet with Shontel tomorrow morning. So-SHELLY COOK: But if you are interested in the demo that we're talking about, I would say notify
Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, because that changes the whole dynamic of that meeting. Yeah.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Doug's on his way up to talk about the January 2020 Monthly Financial
Status.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Doug MacLeod, Comptroller. So these are the January numbers.
We have not received the sales and use taxes yet. We expect to get those today. We got the bulk
of them from the Department of Revenue, but what was missing was the Department of Motor
Vehicles report separately. So we don't have the full picture yet. Once we do get those numbers,
we will update this and post it in the Board package on the web.
So with that said, January ridership, we had good numbers. I would caution the board that we're
not real super-comfortable with these numbers at this point. So they did show a 2.9% improvement
over budget and a 5.5% increase over last year. One of the things that I'd like to remind the Board
of is, in January of 2019 when we compared to last year, that's when we switched over to our APC
counting. So we had some anomalies in some of those numbers. So all I would say is that the
month of January does not a trend make necessarily. So we're still looking at those numbers and
also like to see a little bit more data come through to really put our finger on what it really looks
like.
Regarding fair revenues, so we were under budget by 4.6% for the month and over last year by 4
and 1/2%. One of the reasons for that anomaly, when you look at ridership being up and fare
revenue being down, one of the things we do is we recognize all of our past revenue rate-ably over
the year. So about 60% of our fare revenue is past revenue-- so eco-passes, college passes, flex

passes, and then monthly passes that people buy. So if they buy a whole year worth of eco-passes,
we recognize 1/12 each month. So that won't fluctuate with ridership necessarily, so sometimes
we see that imbalance going on. And that's really the highlights for the month of January, and I'll
be happy to take any questions.
SHELLY COOK: Director Folska, did I have you up there from before? Or you're wishing to speak
now?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, this is now. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thanks, Doug. You're awesome.
I don't know if this question is appropriate for you, but hopefully somebody could address it. It
seems to me that we could be doing a lot more in promoting and marketing our pass program, our
eco-passes. And in particular I spoke to some people who are on the Board of Trustees, if you will,
at Denver International Airport. There are so many employees out there. I think that we should be
doing a full court press over there.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. Actually, we have been spending a
tremendous amount of time out at DEN, I guess.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I can't do that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I get chastised every time I say DIA.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I know, but I can't get it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So actually Theresa, that's in Pauletta's group, has been spending a lot
of time, as well as I have been answering questions, trying to come up with different solutions for
them. The problem is, there is no major organizing organization out there. So we have to address
different ones differently.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Why don't you just create one?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we've offered that to them, to have a master contract out there.
And they have not been exactly receptive to that, because of this differences in-- you have the
concession group versus the pilots versus TSA.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, as a matter of fact, it was a pilot who was telling me that, now that I
remember. Yeah, why don't you have a pilot group, a concessionaire-- I mean, they make a lot of
money on those concessions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, the airlines have chosen how to do it differently. Some do not
offer an eco-pass at all, and others offer a flex pass so that they don't have to buy it for all the pilots
that are stationed in Denver. So, like I said, we're working very closely with them and trying to
come up with different solutions. Depending on who you talk to, though, they have definitely
different ideas about what they want to do out there.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.

SHELLY COOK: Excellent. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just want to point out that staff is doing
the same thing with UC Health and folks on the Anschutz campus, because that's another area that
is ripe for this kind of group pricing and engagement and increase in ridership on the R line. And
we're working to be flexible, innovative, creative, relative to trying to answer those issues and help
the R line at the same time. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, this is Heather on that, too. For instance, the VA Hospital does
not want to participate, and that has caused other issues out there with certain employees that work
for the VA that see that other people are getting a different pass. So we've been offering different
options out there, trying to treat them as individual employers instead of a whole campus and
things like that to work through some of those issues.
SHELLY COOK: That's it? Anybody else? Can you briefly describe what you're doing to model- you had indicated you were modeling different scenarios for coronavirus impacts. Can you talk
about that just briefly?
DOUG MACLEOD: Oh, sure. Sure, yes. This is Doug MacLeod. So one of the things we wanted
to look at is look at average weekday ridership, kind of before and after and throughout this process
of the coronavirus and all the quarantines that are going on. But we did get a request from Denver
because they're interested in that information, too. They're particularly interested in what the
impact would be from activity going in and out of Denver. So they've requested that information
from us.
We're going to track it. One of the things-- one of the issues that we have is it takes about two
weeks for us to collect all of the data from all of the vehicles and also go through the data. We
have to do a quality check on all the data because sometimes we get poor data, and we have to
throw that out. And our service planning folks do that. So it takes about two weeks from that point
to get two weeks' prior data. We will be able to break that weekday average down by route, but it
will take some time to put it together. The one thing that we're not sure of is if we'll be able to
really tell how much of an impact or if it's seasonality, but we do intend on gathering it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: On that same issue, we did do some estimates just to get an idea as part
of our pandemic plan, based on King County-- I think it was King County-- seeing they're now up
to, I think, a 20% impact to ridership. And so we've run some numbers around what 10% would
look like, and other things from a fare revenue standpoint, hoping it doesn't get to that point here.
But we have done some analysis on that so we can be prepared if we start seeing ridership impacts
and what that might look like to us, both on a short and long-term basis.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And in addition to gathering that data, can you get that? Can you report
that to us fairly frequently? Because I've already gotten a number of stakeholders asking me, what's
going on? Are you guys noticing any impacts on ridership based on this coronavirus? So if we can
get that as frequently as we can, that'd be appreciated. Thank you.

DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, we sure will.
SHELLY COOK: Sobering to consider. OK, anything else on that? We've got one last update, the
LIVE Program. Go ahead. Poor Miss McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So sorry. I keep hitting the button. And I'm not supposed to be touching
anything, and I keep hitting the button. So the LIVE update, I'm going to have Monica TreiplHarnke, give you an update on that. I think some of you may know that there was an article today
in CPR about it, and so we'd be glad to take any questions about that also. But I'll just have her
give you a quick update as to where we are right now.
MONICA: Hello, this is Monica Treipl-Harnke. I'm Senior Manager of Revenue here at RTD. So
we have good news on enrollment. I have included in the updates a little graphic of how enrollment
has increased. I guess it's on page 38 of the Board package.
Over the last, I guess, several months, we've seen an uptick in January and now February. And so
we're very happy about that. We think it's-- well, more people know about it. We did have a
marketing push, or started a marketing push, about two weeks ago, three weeks ago. And also I
think there's more interest from the nonprofit organizations that we'll, I'm sure, be talking about in
a little bit.
Kind of the things-- we talk with you every month. What is new is that we have kicked off that
promotional campaign, and hopefully you've seen the in-vehicle ads for the All Discounts
campaign. And then there will be additional activities to that, which are in the communications
plan that you were all sent a few weeks ago.
We're still working with Member Human Services on an application outreach worker. They want
to post a position in a week or so. So hopefully that will be a-- we're hoping that someone can start
in April to go around and help people apply at various organizations. I should backtrack. I have a
set schedule.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, let me just add to this. So this was-- I call it the roving application
worker. But they have a much nicer name for that. But it's a result of the meetings we had with the
individuals from the homeless organizations who said that they would appreciate it, and if it would
be helpful if there were different locations throughout the Denver metro area where the various
nonprofits could send their clients to get help to actually apply for the LIVE card through the
electronic process. So we've been working with Denver Human Services on that. They were
receptive to that. So right now they're working on getting the individual hired for that position, and
then we'll set a schedule. And we'd like that schedule to be set where people could rely and we
could advertise, Monday morning they'll be at the Denver Library, for instance. And Tuesday
afternoon they'll be at such and such. And so we're looking at locations throughout the district and
days that that person would be available to do this outreach.
MONICA: The other thing we did is we worked with our ID card vendor to switch the printing
schedule, which we looked at some numbers, decreased the average number of calendar days from
an application approval in peak to the card being in the mail from 4 and 1/2 to 3 and 1/2 days. And

we're working more with them to see how much would it cost to decrease that further, and how
much would we gain? How much decrease is actually possible, given that there is a few steps for
processing these applications and cards?
We will be starting to work on a survey of LIVE participants, which is starting on trying to
determine the goals, the overarching questions. And then our outreach team has a few items in the
works, including-- I know there's going to be town halls that will also include LIVE. There are
some concerns, as you all know, how outreach will be conducted, not about LIVE in particular,
just from events being canceled, because they do go to community events and meet with people
with the coronavirus fears. So that's something to be cognizant of.
They have good plans, and we'll see how things will be happening. They definitely want to do an
email blast at the very least to send some more information, some new information to organizations
that they're working with. That was really the news, or the news from us. Now, there was the article
on Colorado Public Radio this morning. It's also on-- it can be also read as an article. And this was
about really looking at the LIVE program from the-- with a focus on homeless individuals and the
organizations that serve them and how the nonprofit program rules have changed, and how that
has impacted this population and the organizations. So I don't know if I want to talk-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we'll just take questions if you have any.
MONICA: Yeah, I think that's better, because I'm assuming you read them, the article.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll be glad to take any questions.
SHELLY COOK: Yeah. Why don't we do that? Anybody have any questions for them? Director
Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions. Since you brought up the- how will you serve our homeless populations. So a number-- so a few-- in this packet that you
presented, 729 lack an uploaded photo, so that's one reason that they haven't been able to have
access to this program. And then you have to wait four days before they're in the mail. So it has to
be mailed to an address. And so when we're thinking about our homeless, our populations who are
experiencing homelessness, they often don't have addresses, and they often don't have IDs. And
so my question is, what are we doing specifically to address the concerns of our non-profit
providers and our homeless service providers to deal with this barrier that is created with the LIVE
program?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So you want me to-MONICA: Yeah, why don't you start?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So before we went live, we actually met with the various nonprofits and
had the conversation around the homeless, and also there was an issue around corrections, people
that are getting out of jail or a state prison. So we have been aware of that.

One of the things that several of the nonprofits/providers that work specifically with homeless,
they do offer a mailing address for them. So we thought we had taken care of that barrier, as they
do accept mail for them, as well as the County Human Service Offices accept mail for the homeless
population. So from that perspective, we thought we had some methodologies in place to deal with
that particular piece of it.
The other piece around the photos is the sticking point. It's just the whole application process,
right, having access to a computer, and then having resources-- the bigger issue we heard was just
having resources available to walk somebody through that process, because they may not have the
skills, even if they have access to a computer at one of the homeless facilities, or even with-- city
and county of Denver will assist them if they come into their offices. So that was one of the big
pushes that came from our meetings with them-- we had several meetings with them-- as to the
idea behind this roving application worker, where there would be a set place that they could go,
where the homeless could easily get to, and they could get that assistance to be able to get that
application in.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I mean, I think-- well, I appreciate the work that you all have done thus
far. I don't think it completely addresses it. And so what it sounds like-- and of the folks who I've
talked to, who I've had meetings with who are homeless service providers-- is that it's caused an
administrative burden. And so now people who provide direct services with our homeless
population are now having to spend, if they have an hour appointment, 45 minutes of that
appointment trying to help them get into the LIVE program, when that time could be dedicated to
helping them to solidify housing, helping them to get appointments in terms of health care, helping
to get dental appointments, you get my drift. And so I think it is something that we should have a
conversation with-- they have the answers. They work with our in-house neighbors every single
day. And so they would know how best to serve those populations and how to ensure that they
have access to this program. And as it stands right now, that's not the case for our poorest folks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. And we understand that perspective. The perspective
that we've been working towards is trying to figure out ways to a system-- like having an
application worker available to them-- to send their folks to so they're not spending that time with
that person at the homeless center doing the application. I think a little bit of our frustration has
come from the answer that we hear first before the other suggestions is, we want the nonprofit
program back the way it was before so we can just hand out the product right there. And that is
very difficult because the program was set up to benefit a much larger group of people versus just
those affiliated with the nonprofit. So we're trying to figure out what that balance is right now,
right? And so we've only been doing this for a few months, and so we aren't quite there. And the
nonprofits, the time frame, was supposed to be up in July that they had to buy the new product.
We extended that through December, so we're just now seeing the nonprofits working through
those with those issues with us. And so I think what we plan to do is continue to work with all of
the nonprofits, in particular we'll be meeting specifically with homeless shelters and homeless
organizations that support that population and those clients and see other things that we might be
able to do.
We're revisiting that some time late spring after the nonprofits have had an opportunity to sign up
their clients and see where we are with that, as far as utilization of not only issuing the cards, but

what are we seeing as far as the actual product being purchased, because that's ultimately where
our concern is from a money perspective of, you know, if we're way under our projections as far
as how much money we were going to be out, then maybe we have opportunities to look at other
products and easier ways to access things. We get a large request for the monthly, so that is
something that we're looking at. And then we'll be back to the Board with that analysis closer to-probably the May-June time frame. But we'll keep updating you every month.
But right now we're thinking we need to have a little more time under our belt before we can figure
out whether we need to specifically pull out other parts, because once we start pulling out
nonprofits from underneath the LIVE program, you start affecting the whole domino effect, right?
Because every day somebody will come to us and say, if we pull it out for the homeless, they'll go,
well, I'm in corrections. I need that pulled out. Or I serve this population, I need that pulled out.
And then we're back to kind of defeating the purpose of what the past working group wanted to do
was to have a product that was available for everybody that fit that category, not just those affiliated
with a nonprofit. So we're trying to figure out what that right balance is, and we're not there yet.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I don't disagree with that. I agree that it does provide more access for
more people, but the people who there's a burden and a barrier that's been created for them not to
access it, I think they really feel it. And we're talking about folks who don't have houses, and I
think that's really important. I think we should think creatively about this balance that you spoke
to, and how do we address that, and how do we address that in partnership with specifically
homeless service providers? And I'm not saying our nonprofit providers in general. I'm just saying
those who serve our unhoused populations, because I think that's a very different demographic,
and they have very specific needs that I think provide us an opportunity to work collaboratively
with these folks. And I think we could do more, and we could push a little further.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Anybody else? Thank you very much.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: We're next on Other Matters. Anybody have anything to bring up for the good
of the order here? General Manager Ballard, do you have anything under Other Matters?
PAUL BALLARD: All that to say, no, ma'am. Thank you very much. I will get this down. But
thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK, good deal. Thank you. Well, with-- it looks like our next meeting day is
April 14, 2020. With that I would go ahead and adjourn the meeting. Thank you all.

