Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

STUDY SESSION
October 31, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Bob Broom
Director, District F

Status
Absent
Absent
Present

Arrived

5:24 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Remote
Remote
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:27 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:27 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Absent

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D

Absent
Present
Absent
Present
Present

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

Directors Deadwyler and Folska participated via phone.
Menten, Mihalik and Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

5:23 PM
5:33 PM
5:26 PM
5:19 PM

Directors Anderson, Archuleta,

Rolf Asphaug, Chessy Brady, Nicole Carey, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry
Emmons, David Genova, John Hersey, Robin McIntosh Jr., John
McKay, Barbara McManus, Allen Miller, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Jim Rhodes, Bill Sirois

Others Present:

II.

William Gross, Andrew Knudtsen, Dave Sachs, John Shaw, Paolo
Solorzano, Tim Smalls

Transportation-Oriented Development Workshop
Bill Sirois, Transit Oriented Communities Senior Manager, stated that an assessment
completed in 2016 recommended that RTD assess projects from a policy standpoint. He
said that staff would like to begin a dialogue with the Board to establish a policy for
Transit Oriented Developments and that the goal for the discussion was to provide
information on concepts and past projects and to gather feedback for value evaluation
metrics to assist staff in the future. He added that presenting with him would be Chessy
Brady, Transit Oriented Development Manager (TOD), John Shaw, a respected local
developer with over 40 years of experience as a consultant for RTD and Andrew
Knudtsen, from Economic and Planning Systems (EPS). He noted that EPS provided real
estate analysis support for the TOD group in the form of financial analysis, land valuation,
developer negotiations and insight/perspective from working with peer transit agencies on
TOD.
Mr. Sirois commented that Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) was:
• More compact and dense development within a 10-minute walk or ½ mile
distance around transit facilities
• A mix of uses, usually including residential, retail, and office
• High-quality, pedestrian-oriented urban design and streetscapes
The basis for TOD:
• Integrates station areas into communities
• Promotes higher density development (growing up instead of out)
• Supports local economic development
• Improves station security (“eyes on the street”)
• Increases ridership
• Creates affordable housing opportunities
• Leverages private and other governmental investments
RTD’s vision for TOD will:
• Promote multi-sector, cross-jurisdictional partnerships
• Encourage livable communities and sustainable developments that support the
transit system
• Ensure a hierarchy of multimodal access; and
• Protect and enhances RTD’s transit assets
Mr. Sirois added that RTD could not do these alone. He remarked that RTD would need to
work with other jurisdictions to make these happen.

TOD at RTD stations can create Direct and/or Indirect value:
• Direct Value comes directly back to the agency and includes:
o
Cash/revenue from land sale/lease
o
Increased ridership/fares
o
Replacement or new facilities
o
Outsourced maintenance
• Indirect Value supports the agency and comprises:
o
Enhanced operations
o
Improved safety/security
o
Upgraded amenities and access
o
Jurisdictional support
o
Community facilities/affordable housing
o
Brand image enhancement
Mr. Sirois noted that RTD’s involvement in projects such as Boulder Junction and Union
Station was beneficial and allowed people to view RTD differently.
Mr. Shaw commented that he and staff wanted to discuss how the value of property is
established. He noted that fundamentally it is done by appraisal and there are three
approaches to estimate value. He added that sales comparison is much more challenging
when evaluating commercial property or empty lots.
Sales Comparison Approach:

Evaluates sales of properties that are similar to a subject property

Most accurate when numerous sales of comparable properties are available

Becomes more challenging to apply when development program of asset is
specialized
Cost Replacement Approach:

Sets value of property based on the cost of reproducing a substitute property,
incl. land, building, parking, etc

Costs are ‘all in’ and include hard, soft, land, profit, etc.
Income Approach:

Most appropriate when land is under consideration for future development

Works well when context offers few comparable sales or when the surrounding
uses do not represent the highest and best use of the property

Measures the present worth of a future income generated by a property, and its
eventual resale value



Determines the residual land value after accounting for total development costs
and sales revenues

Mr. Knudtsen explained that project value is ultimately derived by the income produced by
the asset.
In order to determine project value:

Project Value is a function of the net income it will produce over time

Developers compare potential projects based on expected income vs. land costs

Project value and project costs are calculated independently, using different
factors

Project costs can be broken down into four elements
o
Hard costs (60% of total cost)
 Construction materials
 Labor
o
Soft costs (15-20% of total cost)
 Professional Services
 Architects/Engineers
 Legal
 Survey
 Market Studies
 Costs for off-site expenses
 Financing costs
 Leasing costs
o
Developer Profit (8-10% of total cost)
o
Residual Land Value (13% of total cost)
 Project value minus project cost = Residual Land Value
Key considerations for Residual Land Value are:

In most markets, hard and soft costs are fixed and do not vary substantially
between submarkets

Higher land values correlate to higher density and higher market pressure

Greater net income provides greater project value and flows directly to land
value
Mr. Knudtsen noted that several factors can cut into residual land value such as:

On-site costs for RTD replacement facilities

Affordable housing or other community facilities
In some cases, RTD may wish to prioritize:

Revenues to the agency




Construction of transit-related facilities
Affordable housing or other community facilities

Costs for RTD facilities, affordable housing or other additional costs can be partially
offset by:
• Jurisdiction Subsidies
• Tax Increment Financing
• Metro District Taxes or Fees
Ms. Brady noted that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) had its own approach to
TOD:

FTA understands tradeoffs are necessary to achieve benefits of development

FTA encourages Joint Development that satisfies four criteria:
o
Creates economic benefit
o
Enhances public transportation
o
Partner provides a fair share of revenue
 RTD must receive revenue equal to or greater than FTA’s original
investment
 Unless the project is a community/public facility or affordable
housing
o
Tennant pays a fair share of costs
Ms. Brady explained that peer agencies approach TOD in a variety of ways. She said
Dallas and Charlotte are focused on Direct Value and they do not offer a lot of other tools,
but Seattle, Los Angeles, and San Francisco have broader goals and provide a lot of
additional tools and funding. Ms. Brady noted that Denver would end up in the middle,
and staff was looking for feedback on how staff can assess projects.
Mr. Sirois commented that staff would place RTD in the hybrid category. He explained
that there are various levels of benefit depending on the overall goal. He asked how RTD
might approach TOD going forward. He stated that the approach would include:

Developing TOD Value Evaluation Metrics

Guiding internal decision-making around all TOD projects by evaluating the
projects value to RTD

Develop principles and evaluation factors to be considered for every TOD project
Mr. Sirois commented that the next step would be to present draft evaluation metrics as
information to the Board in December and propose the final evaluation metrics for adoption
in January or February of 2018.
Director Broom asked if staff had an inventory of RTD owned property.

Mr. Sirois stated that staff does have information that could be provided as to what
property could be available for TOD.
Director Broom inquired as to what kind of discount rates are available in the current
market.
Mr. Knudtsen remarked that the discount is based on asset class and geography. He
noted that Denver has a little bit more risk to it, so the discount rates would go up. He
commented that generally, the market will use a 5.5-7.5% discount rate depending on the
use.
Mr. Shaw added that the rate has dropped over the past decade, which clearly reflects the
cost of today.
Director Williams asked how this related to selling versus leasing property for TOD.
Mr. Sirois commented that this was exactly what staff wanted to talk about, which was
property control. He noted that historically RTD had viewed property as for sale, but
noted that RTD should look more towards a lease model. He noted that there would be
situations where RTD could not do a lease, and condos were the best example of that.
Director Williams stated that she was interested in how affordable housing fits into TOD
where land can be leased, and she would like to explore that option further.
Chair Hoy commented that what gets developed, and how, is not the developer or RTD’s
choice. He noted that there are land laws, zoning, city councils, and other factors and
plans change all of the time.
Director Francone said that it was important for her to know what RTD has in its inventory
before she could consider setting policy goals. She added that the property inventory list
had been requested by the Board on more than one occasion and it would be helpful to
know if RTD had an abundance of vacant land, small pieces of land, or land that could not
be used for transit purposes.
Mr. Sirois stated that staff had had a lot of discussion about real property and real
property assets, but TOD is more focused on joint development. He noted that when RTD
has an asset or a piece of property that the agency is operating on it is separate from the
excess real property. He added that for the current discussion staff was referring to land
at stations that could be considered for joint development over time. He further added
that such projects would be difficult and complex and, just because RTD had 60 stations,

it did not mean all of them would become TOD properties. He also commented that staff
was looking for direction on how to manage unsolicited TOD proposals.
Director Francone remarked that staff are the experts in this topic, but it was difficult for
her to create and accept a policy direction if she did not know what assets RTD had. She
added that there was a TOD opportunity at every station and without understanding what
RTD has it was difficult to establish policy.
Chair Hoy added that RTD’s staff and Board do not always know what development would
be best. He stated that it is beneficial when developers approach RTD because they might
be able to see options or a direction that RTD cannot.
Director Sisk applauded staff for including the private development segment. He said that
philosophically RTD would look at the indirect value but he saw TOD as a financing
mechanism for RTD in the future. He noted that RTD’s most successful TOD was Union
Station and some of the Board wished RTD would have kept one of those lots instead of
selling all of them to developers. He added that RTD has had ample opportunities to
engage the private sector to build TOD but RTD has been too passive in its real estate
development. He further added that this was an opportunity for RTD to put something on
the ground and hoped that staff would come back to the Board with a few models.
Director Walker stated that he would like to think that RTD is heading in the same
direction as Seattle, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. He noted that a lot of people were
moving here looking for more indirect values for TOD. He added that RTD’s priorities
would shift with the economy and the type of development would change with the sale or
lease of a property. He stated that the land value is based on factors outside of RTD’s
control but zoning and neighborhood pressure were also considerations. He commented
that he would like RTD to focus on the indirect value for TOD development.
Director Tisdale noted that he appreciated the discussion, but the question begins with
inventory. He noted that holding on to land was a great idea because when land is sold it
is lost forever as is any income it could generate. He added that he did not take into
account the FTA’s constraints and the Board needed to know what properties were
acquired with FTA funds. He added that another thing to consider was the Tiny Home
movement. He said that there were cities all across the state that have looked at tiny
homes for affordable or employee housing. He remarked that there are a lot of
opportunities and others who may be doing this as well. He noted that RTD needed to
look at what brings money to RTD and it must be a sustainable steam of money to the
agency.

Director Lubow stated that she too would like to see the excess property inventory list.
She noted that it is to RTD’s benefit to promote TOD’s that have been effective and RTD
should hold an open house and tell others that the agency would like to work with them in
order to be productive for both parties. She added that FasTracks has created unintended
gentrification and the agency had a responsibility to deal with that in an appropriate way.
Director Deadwyler remarked that she was disappointed that this was just now coming to
the Board, especially after the sale of the property at 29th and Welton. She added that the
Board needed to see if that sale could be rescinded so that the land could be leased
instead of sold.
Director Broom commented that Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG)
invested a lot of money and station area plans along the lines in the various jurisdictions.
He said that those plans should be attached to the inventory list as a reference as to what
could be done at those stations.
Chair Hoy noted that the Board did receive a property inventory list but it did not reflect
what was discussed here. He noted that the inventory list does exist but it was very dry
because properties were identified by a legal description or property number.
Mr. Sirois commented that the list Chair Hoy referenced was excess land that was not
slated for development. He said that RTD had existing operating facilities at most of the
development sites and the crux of the problem was how to reconfigure existing structures
for development, which would cost more money. He noted that Arvada for example,
brought $24 million to the project in order to build a multi-level parking structure.
Director Francone said that the whole Denver metro area is growing so fast that these
issues would come up again and again. She noted that growth needed to be carefully and
thoughtfully managed. She stated that, since RTD is a transit agency, transportation
needed to be RTD’s first and foremost goal, not becoming a landlord. She added that the
idea of TOD’s only being limited to train stations is limiting and some of the park-n-rides
were usable space. She commented that she had been in Evergreen a few weeks earlier
and everyone using the park-n-ride there was there for other reasons besides
transportation. She said they were swapping cars, picking someone up, or using it as a
meet up place for other events. She noted that there was no transit function and if staff
looked at park-n-ride lots they could be used for something else and made more attractive
as a destination. She further inquired as to how staff was benchmarking direct vs. indirect
value.
Mr. Sirois stated that staff has some project specific data, but they do not have a
framework approach for projects. He noted that, while staff has seen various levels of

value they are trying to look at this a new way to decide what might be more important
such as leasing land instead of selling.
Director Walker asked how many times a month staff was approached for TOD.
Mr. Sirois remarked that staff received a lot of fishing calls. He commented that a lot of
times those calls did not materialize beyond the initial phone call, but staff developed a
TOD website page to help the process. He added that, since RTD is a public agency, there
were a lot of additional requirements that others do not have.
Director Walker noted that he was told that staff was difficult to work with, but he did not
mind that critique. He noted that the process should be difficult in order to be good
custodians of tax funds.
Mr. Shaw noted that developers did not mind difficultly, but they needed predictability and
a clear path to create a road map.
Chair Hoy stated that he had heard from more than one developer that they wanted to
know what the rules were so they could work with them.
Director Tisdale commented that he was happy to hear that there was a real estate
inventory as that was a good beginning.
Director Williams added that most of her district, which is highly TOD, does not have
trains and it had not impeded its ability to use public transportation.
General Manager Genova remarked that the TOD group were not changing, but they were
focusing on protecting RTD’s assets.

III.

Parking Update
Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of Facilities, stated that at the next meeting, the Board
would have a different process to get to the building.
Jim Rhodes, Facility Engineer, commented that, as part of the sale of Market Street
Station, the condition of the sale included 20 off-site parking spots. He noted that there
were two accessible spots across the street from the Blake Street offices and 18 spots at
16th and Wewatta St. He stated that each Director would be issued a transponder that
would link with the controlled gate in the garage. He noted that this new parking site
would be challenging at first but should work itself out. He added that the access gate
was controlled and the garage would know when the 18 spots were occupied. He said
that once the 19th car entered the garage a ticket would be issued and the driver would

have a 15-minute window to exit the garage or pay for parking. He commented that the
spaces would be shared between the Board and RTD staff and the lot would be cleared
out for Board meetings and Board functions.
General Manager Genova commented that it would operate very much like the lot did at
the Blake Street offices in that the garage was a shared space.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, added that this parking lot
would be in use for 2 years.
Director Lubow inquired if the spaces reserved for the Executive Committee could be used
by other Board members.
Chair Hoy asked, if another Director was intending to use an Executive Committee
member’s spot, that the Director contact the Executive Committee member to see if the
spot would be available.
Director Tisdale asked if there was a specific place where the transponder needed to be
placed in order for it to work properly.
Mr. Rhodes stated that he was not sure but he would find out.
General Manager Genova added that RTD was not paying for access to the new garage.
He said that the 18 spots were included in the land sale of Market Street Station and,
when construction around Blake is done, RTD’s parking would be replaced.
Ms. McManus noted that if there was a Special Board Meeting or a Special Committee
Meeting outside of the schedule the Board Office would work with HR to get the spaces
cleared. However, for meetings such as the General Manager Oversight Committee,
Directors would be responsible for their own parking.
Chair Hoy commented that there would probably be more nuances that the Board and staff
would have to tackle as they come up.

IV.

Other Matters
Director Francone reminded the Board that the next General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee meeting would be on Tuesday, November 7th. She
noted that the discussions that day would generate the General Manager’s performance
evaluation and more importantly his discretionary performance payout. She added that
only 10 Directors had completed the General Manager’s Performance Survey and the
survey had to be completed by midnight that evening. She asked if anyone had any

questions or issues completing their survey to please speak with Barbara McManus. She
further asked that the Directors review the parking situation before the next meeting so
that everyone could get to the meeting on time and ready to work.

V.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:08 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

