1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Bobby Dishell, District D
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Troy Whitmore, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Performance Committee
Monday July 17, 2023
REMOTE MEETING
8:30 AM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 844 3240 0721#
Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Performance Committee
Chaired by Erik Davidson

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Discussion Items

• GM/CEO Compensation Philosophy
• GM/CEO Performance Appraisal Process
D. Recommended Action
E. Other Matters

F. Next Meeting Date: TBD
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
GM/CEO Compensation Philosophy

July 17, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer
Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive Manager
PRESENTATION LENGTH
20 minutes
BACKGROUND
During the February 15, 2023, Performance Committee (committee) meeting, committee members
reached a consensus that the processes for evaluating both the performance of the General Manager and
Chief Executive Officer (GM/CEO) and the performance of the agency itself could be enhanced.
The committee members reviewed the following materials during the April 12, 2023, meeting:
• The 2021-2026 Strategic Plan adopted by the Board of Directors on August 10, 2021
• The GM/CEO Employment Agreement (contract) entered into on September 29, 2020, and most
recently amended in the Fourth Amendment agreed to on October 26, 2022
• The Compensation Study Report completed by Gallagher dated November 18, 2022
Further, committee members agreed to explore possible strategies and opportunities to enhance the
processes for evaluating the performance both of the agency and of the GM/CEO.
On June 5, 2023, the Chief People Officer delivered a compensation philosophy presentation, from an
objective human resources perspective, detailing the considerations, factors, types, and components to
be considered in developing said philosophy.
On June 22, 2023, the committee convened an executive session for subsequent consideration of the
compensation and compensation philosophy, performance appraisal, and contract for the current
GM/CEO, to receive legal advice, as well as to hear from the current GM/CEO regarding the scope of the
duties and responsibilities incumbent upon the individual.
DISCUSSION
The purpose of this discussion item is to solicit input and feedback from the Performance Committee in
the development of an overall compensation philosophy designed to attract, motivate, and retain the
individual who serves as the agency’s GM/CEO. Attached is a draft offered for the committee’s
consideration in advance of the September 2023 Performance Committee meeting, during which the

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

committee is anticipated to consider a recommended action regarding a GM/CEO Compensation
Philosophy and base salary pay band.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
No financial impact has been recognized at this time.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

20230717_Performance Committee_Draft Compensation Philosophy

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1.a

Performance Committee Meeting - July 17, 2023
Draft compensation philosophy for the GM/CEO:
Attachment: 20230717_Performance Committee_Draft Compensation Philosophy (4805 : GM/CEO Compensation Philosophy)

RTD’s vision to be the trusted transit leader in mobility, delivering excellence, and value
to our customers and community requires the expertise of a highly skilled and seasoned
executive capable of leading and inspiring an innovative, complex, and unique multimodal transit agency.
The overarching goal of the Board of Directors is to attract, motivate and retain the
requisite executive talent necessary to achieve the agency’s mission and vision. The
Board further acknowledges that competition to attract a GM/CEO with the required
suite of competencies, knowledge, and experience is extremely challenging given the
highly specialized transit environment and tight labor market. Therefore, RTD must be
market competitive on a Northern American scale in both public and private sectors
when considering talent acquisition and retention.
Furthermore, the following principles will guide the components of the GM/CEO’s total
compensation. Total compensation will be designed to:
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

Demonstrate internal equity, fairness, and transparency while being externally
market competitive, aligned to the 50th percentile of comparable public transit
agencies, and related public and private sectors where executive talent may
reside
Comprise a component of pay-for-performance designed to motivate and incent
performance and retention
Incent agency, team, and individual performance aligned to the agency’s
strategic objectives and directly linked to a pay-for-performance framework
Provide appropriate opportunities for personal and professional development
Recognize the value in compensation components that directly support the
health and welfare of the GM/CEO today (e.g., health [including dedicated
executive health benefits], dental, vision, PTO, executive leave) and into the
future (e.g., deferred compensation, retiree health benefits)
Consider specific agency variables (e.g., size, values, strategic goals, stage of
evolution, geographical markets)
Recognize and respect the agency’s fiscal reality and the commitment to
responsible stewardship of public tax dollars and customer revenue
Adapt nimbly to changing external (e.g., labor market) and internal
circumstances (e.g., fiscal restraints)
Be reviewed for market competitiveness and legislative/regulatory compliance
(local, state, and federal) on an annual basis

Additionally, the GM/CEO’s performance will be formally assessed on an annual basis.
Should the GM/CEO be employed with a term contract, the Board will endeavor to hold
meaningful discussion about extending the term of such contract no later than 18
months prior to the expiration of the contract’s term.
1
Packet Pg. 5

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
GM/CEO Performance Appraisal Process

July 17, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVES
Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive Manager
PRESENTATION LENGTH
20 minutes
BACKGROUND
Conducting the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) performance appraisal is a fundamental
responsibility of the Board of Directors. An annual appraisal must be completed per the Board’s Bylaws
and the employment agreement with GM/CEO Debra A. Johnson, entered into on September 29, 2020,
and most recently amended in the Fourth Amendment agreed to on October 26, 2022 (GM/CEO
Agreement). The Bylaws provide that the Chair and the Performance Committee are responsible for the
annual appraisal. Article VI, Section 1, f) and Article VII, Section 5.
As relevant to the appraisal process and timing, the GM/CEO Agreement provides:
•
•

•

•

GM/CEO Johnson shall have the opportunity to submit a self-evaluation for the Board’s
consideration prior to issuance of a final appraisal
On November 1 each year, GM/CEO Johnson shall propose any suggested adjustments to the
Weighted Success Outcomes, Organizational Values or Goals, and the proposed distribution
between base salary and incentive compensation (Appraisal Criteria and Weighting) for the
following year’s performance period for the Board’s consideration
By December 31 of each year, the Board will provide an appraisal to GM/CEO Johnson; if the
Board fails to do so, she will be deemed to have met all performance expectations for that
performance period
By December 31 of each year, after consideration of and consultation with GM/CEO Johnson on
her recommendations, the Board shall adopt the Appraisal Criteria and Weighting for the following
year’s performance period; if the Board fails to do so, GM/CEO Johnson shall be evaluated and
compensated based on the Appraisal Criteria and Weighting for the prior performance period

On December 6, 2022, the Board adopted the GM/CEO Performance Appraisal Criteria and Weighting
for the performance period commencing January 1, 2023, and ending December 31, 2023, and for each
performance period thereafter, with 50% of the performance appraisal score for the Board-adopted
Strategic Plan objective Success Outcomes (Community Value, Customer Excellence, and Financial
Success), with equal weight being given to each, and 50% for the subjective Organizational Values
(Passion, Respect, Diversity, Trustworthiness, Collaboration, and Ownership).

Packet Pg. 6

1.C.2

DISCUSSION
There are two objectives for the Performance Committee’s discussion:
1. Discuss and provide input on the timing and process for the GM/CEO’s 2023 appraisal
2. Discuss and provide input on potential adjustments to the 2024 appraisal process, including a
schedule/cadence of regular performance check-ins with the GM/CEO, as well as the desired
components in the evaluation process.
Following the discussion by the Performance Committee on July 17, 2023, the Chair of the Board and
the Chair of the Performance Committee with assistance of the Board Office will seek input from the
GM/CEO and call upon the expertise of RTD’s Human Resources to develop draft evaluation plans
focusing on the cadence of regular meetings between the GM/CEO and the Performance Committee as
well as any related activities, for 2023 and 2024 for the Performance Committee’s review at its
September 2023 meeting.
This discussion aligns with the Strategic Priorities of Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee
Ownership, and Financial Success, as the GM/CEO’s performance is reflective of the overall performance
of the agency as a whole.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None

Prepared by:
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 7

