2023-07-17
Performance Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, good morning, everybody. The Monday, July 17 Performance Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 8:30 AM Mountain Time. I would respectfully ask everyone
attending the meeting to mute yourself unless you're recognized to speak.
Thank you for joining us. As usual, these committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being
held remotely via Zoom. And they are audio and video recorded. The recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable on our Board's website. You may visit rtd-denver.com. And
a live stream of this meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members, staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged during the
proceedings this morning, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call upon you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating via phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate they would like to do so by pressing star 9 and toggling their mute settings with star 6.
First of all, I'll go ahead and call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan? And I see you here.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I know that. Yeah, perfect. And I am also here. This is Director Davidson. So for the
sake of the record, I see that we have six directors present, zero absent from the committee. I am not
seeing any other directors joining us this morning from the Board. We'll keep an eye out if anyone does
join.
So, first of all, we're going to go ahead and go to the public comment section. As usual, we can open this
up for anyone who would like to speak with regards to the current published meeting agenda or for the
immediately preceding months agenda before moving into the rest of this year. Just I'll ask the Board
Office, did we receive any emails and/or do we have any hands raised? I'm not seeing any.

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There were no hands raised and no emails received.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Thank you very much. We're going to go ahead and move forward. We're
going to go right into our discussion items. There are no recommended actions today. We'll talk about
why we have these as discussion items as we go through.
I know that a few folks on the call have hard stops at the half hour. So we'll try to move along. But I do
want to make sure we have a good discussion about each of these. Just wanted to make sure to
acknowledge that before we get into these discussion items.
So the first discussion item is going to be the General Manager compensation philosophy. We're going to
hear a little bit from Charlene Polege, our Chief People Officer, as well as Jack Kroll, our Board Office
Executive Manager, to present and discuss the item further. But I did want to go ahead and just start us
off and start the discussion here.
First of all and first and foremost, I want to thank Ms. Polege. Charlene did a great job, I think, helping us,
going outside of what we would typically expect at this phase and really engaging in partnering with us to
help us get this compensation philosophy put together. Thank you very much for doing that. We had a
great discussion when we got together and collected feedback with this committee. And I think that we
were able to really capture a lot of what this committee discussed. And thanks to the work of Ms. Polege
and Mr. Kroll for synthesizing a lot of what this Board had-- this committee had discussed.
I think ended with a good work product that hopefully everybody's had a chance to review. We did have a
chance, Mr. Kroll and Ms. Polege and myself, to meet about the next steps on this and decided,
ultimately, that this should come forward as a discussion item since although we collected feedback from
the committee to really garner what would be of interest and what some of the core tenets are that we
want to capture in this, this is the first time the committee is seeing something actually written out.
I think the work product is really solid the way that Ms. Polege, I think, had this framed and is very helpful
as the first two paragraphs really represent this high-level philosophy for us to adopt and wrap our arms
around, whereas the bulleted principles give us some more of the specifics that will really, I think, help
enable us to design compensation packages, revisit what we're doing in the General Manager and CEO
position over time. So I think this is a really great starting point. The reason for this being a discussion
item is that I think it's important for the committee to be able to weigh in, and did we get this right? Did this
capture the nature of the discussion/ Are there high-level things that might be missing or might need to
change for this? I think we're close.
But the risk of creating this as a discussion item, I just want to make sure that we're all on the same page
about this, we'll have to pass this in September so that we're on the right track for all the other work that
we want to do. And also this compensation philosophy, we've had a lot of discussion around the base
salary range for the CEO and General Manager position and the need for this committee to adopt one.
And we had one brought forward by Gallagher.
I think, as Ms. Polege has shared with us, especially during that presentation, it's really hard for us to
make decisions like that without agreeing on this compensation philosophy. So I'd like to just suggest that
in September, really, to make the right progress here, we'll need to pass this compensation philosophy
and then also be passing the base salary compensation range. So we'll have to start passing things that
are going to be anchored to this.

The good news is we have August. So the team can reach out to other directors, make sure folks are on
the same page. If there's little adjustments we want to be making at the end of July or early August, we
can get those worked into the compensation philosophy and then have it ready for this committee to pass
in September and then pass at the full Board.
So I wanted to just frame up some of those general things. And, again, just I can't emphasize enough, Mr.
Kroll, thanks for helping distill the core information you heard from the committee. And Ms. Polege, thank
you for taking on this task for the agency in partnership with this committee.
So first, I just want to open the floor briefly, if I may, to Mr. Kroll to just comment on what you heard the
committee say. And you can echo back some of those core things that I think were at the beginning of the
drafts we were working on together.
And then, Ms. Polege, if you wouldn't mind just discussing where we've arrived at, what you've heard, and
what's come together and what this is and isn't at this point. That would be tremendously helpful. So Mr.
Kroll, if you may, please.
JACK KROLL: Great. Well, thank you, Director Davidson and Board members. I'll keep my comments
here brief, what we heard a lot from committee members is really keeping this document simple and high
level. And CPO Polege has produced a document here based off of that. That is, the first two paragraphs
are really going to be the overarching philosophical piece. And then the key bulleted points below is
where things get into more detail.
And I think, again, there was a little bit of discussion around how this might interact with the organization's
compensation philosophy and whether there was necessarily a need for a separate CEO GM philosophy
versus the organization. At the end of the day, I think this is the direction, was while there were some
comments made on both sides, I think that the overwhelming direction was the Board wants to set
something for the GM and CEO. And that can help inform and vice versa the organizational
compensation philosophy. so
With that, I'm going to hand it over to CPO Polege and just echo again what Director Davidson has said
earlier, that her support and insights and expertise throughout this process are very, very much
appreciated. And with that, I'll hand it over.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. So Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. I'll be
really quick here and brief because what's really important is the discussion time for the committee.
What you've already heard is the first two paragraphs are foundational. This whole document serves as a
foundational document. There's nothing in this document that is binding contractually by the Board. It's a
guidepost.
It sets the direction for how the agency wishes to be competitive. It sets transparency. So any future GM
and CEO, including GM and CEO Johnson, once a philosophy is adopted, could look at it and have a
general understanding of what is important to the agency with respect to the GM and CEO compensation.
We've also additionally added in-- I just want to call out the last section, where Mr. Kroll and Director
Davidson, the three of us felt it important that there be a reference to a timeline with respect to
assessment, so a formalizing that a performance will be assessed annually, and then also meaningful
discussions within 18 months of the end of a term of any GM and CEO to keep the movement forward.

So the last I'll say is it is a draft. We're here to hear feedback and dialogue and make changes as
appropriate. This is the Board's GM and CEO Compensation Philosophy. So with that, I will yield the floor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Polege. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. So I would love to open up
discussion of how close this is, where there might be adjustments we want to make. We have the chance
to do this outside the construct of amendments and so forth to recommended action. We can discuss it
here, get it to where we like it, and then pass this in September.
So, please, anybody who has any general questions about this or any specific comments on adjustments
that we might like to see. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, both Charlene and Jack. And this is super helpful. And I think it
looks really good.
The first one of the bullet points, "demonstrate internal equity, fairness, and transparency while being
externally market competitive, aligned to the 50th percentile of comparable public transit agencies and
related public and private sectors where executive talent may resign," can you just talk a little bit about
what that looks like in practice? Do we pick a representative group? Is it the same group that Gallagher
looked at? Do you look at Denver? Do you look at the country? And what exactly is the 50th percentile? If
you could talk about that, please.
CHARLENE POLEGE: If I may, Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Please, Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great. So great question. That bullet is first and foremost because it is, quite
frankly, a critically important bullet. So first off, with respect to-- I'll hit the 50th percentile in a moment. But
with respect to your agencies, again, given that it's a guiding document-- and this is a flexible
compensation strategy, if you recall from my presentation a few weeks back. So it's where are you going
to compete for talent?
Certainly you would definitely, as it indicates in the top bullet, it's saying you need to be competitive in
North America in public and private sectors. So in our previous conversations, there was dialogue around
this role being very specialized. So certainly you would grab comparable transit agencies, which would
be-- which is what you saw in Gallagher.
But additionally, you may-- and this allows the opportunity-- you may wish to consider other related public
sector and/or private sector agencies where you're going to compete for talent. The key tag here is where
are you going to compete for talent? And so you need the specialization certainly for transit, for the transit
agencies.
However, as we know, there are other avenues in the private and public sector that may also be seeking
this very talent. So it's broad to allow you the opportunity, depending on as time evolves, you may recruit
in a different place. So, again, that's why as a philosophy, it's very broad.
The 50th percentile effectively means that you will target your midpoint to the 50th point, the 50th
percentile of the market, which is what actually Gallagher did in the report that the Board commissioned.
The range that they have provided is based on the 50th percentile of the market. So it really just puts you
in the middle. You're not the leader, and you're not lagging. You're in the middle.

And then you have the opportunity, as you would see with the Gallagher report, to set your range. I don't
have it open in front of me, but it could be 55%, could be 40%. But your midpoint is at the 50th percentile
of the market.
And the market is what the Board would ask an agency, like a group like Gallagher, to go out and get
comparables. And so hopefully that explains where this 50th percentile is standard. When you're going
market, it's typically very standard. I'd say the majority, vast majority of organizations that are market
based, have a market-based compensation target the 50th percentile.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. That's super helpful. Just one follow-up, if I may. Do you see then that the
pool of who we compare to could change over time or would change? You look at it every year or two or-CHARLENE POLEGE: Yes. Yes. The short answer to that is yes. And that's what I would just add, why
it's built-- the language is broad to allow you to flex and to gauge where you're most-- as the agency
changes and/or other agencies change, your comparable pool, it may flex. It may adjust.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much. That's all I have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Guissinger. And thanks, Ms. Polege. And, Ms. Polege, just
a quick follow-up to close out the discussion from Director Guissinger, if I understand correctly, if we take
this at a broad level, this gives us the tools to use, where a rewards manager or the HR team, as we can
kind of-- the specifics of where we're competing and also how we're designing the packet will probably
change, but we can anchor to this single philosophy. Is that a fair characterization?
CHARLENE POLEGE: That is correct.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, yeah. Cool. I see, Ms. Johnson, you raised your hand. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much for the opportunity to engage in this discussion. Just for
you all's familiarization, recognizing the need to market of public transit, recognizing what the Chief
People Officer indicated, this organization is evolving into maintaining its assets in a state of good repair
as opposed to building. So the flexibility that the Chief People Officer referenced comes into play,
recognizing you may need a specific leader at the right time.
So when you talk about peer agencies and you look at North America, there could be the Toronto
Transportation Commission, who is undergoing some aspect with their transit asset management plan.
And so when we talk about the peers, you want to ensure that it's reflective of the environment in which
this organization is in so you'll have the optimal talent from which to select. So that's where that flexibility
arises. So I just wanted to share that information with you all because it totally evolves when we talk
about peers and what happens. There's different factors. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Ms. Johnson. That makes a lot of sense. Thank you. Director Guzman,
please?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Thank you for the work. I have a general question. I just want to make
sure that we are making sure that we're meeting all the legal requirements and that this is aligned, if
necessary, with the State of Colorado's expectation for compensation philosophy. And I don't know.
Maybe Ms. Polege could speak to that briefly.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I can. Can you--

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Guzman. Ms. Polege?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sorry. My apologies. Director Guzman, could you expand a little bit for me? I want
to make sure that I understand. When you say "the State of Colorado," what specifically are you referring
to?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So as an agency of the state, I'm just concerned that we might need to-- doing my
due diligence, I looked up our laws. And there is an act. I think it's Act 24-- sorry, CRS 24-50-104, which
refers to how the state employs employees specifically. And I'm not sure where we fall within that
because we're the Board hiring somebody to fill the GM CEO position and if we need to be aligned with
what the state expectations are on that.
And there's kind of two parts to that question because there's one section that gives a state philosophy
that's in legislation. And then there's another part that says compensation is to be determined by a state
controller, by the Personnel Director that does a technically and sound, professionally sound
compensation study and reports back what the pay range salary should be for legislative purposes when
they're doing their budgeting process. And so I just want to make sure that we're aligned with that so we
don't get into any situation with the legislature.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you for the expansion there, Director Guzman. So, first off, with the
compensation philosophy, the draft that's in front of you, the last bullet is your catch-all bullet. Whatever
you establish, you must always be compliant with legislative and regulatory, local, state, and federal, on
an annual basis.
And so the way that this is drafted, again, your compensation philosophy is your high-level statement.
And then when you're going to, for example, engage in a contract, engage in your salary setting, you
need to ensure that we are compliant, that the agency is compliant with any regulations. So as far as the
compensation philosophy, that line covers you.
Again, it's a statement. You need to be compliant because laws change all the time, as we see. And so
that covers that.
With respect to your specific question, because I was drafting, working on a general high-level statement,
I did not do the work of drilling down into all of the legal pieces. I may defer to our General Counsel, Ms.
Snyder, to weigh in on the specificity of your question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: If I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Snyder, would you like to comment?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So thank you,
Director Guzman, for raising that. So the statute that you're referencing is talking about state employees
and the state personnel system. And RTD, of course, is a political subdivision of the State of Colorado,
but we are not under the umbrella of the state personnel system.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. That was my concern.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have one more comment, if I may.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I see the vision, and I see our values, but we're missing the mission. And I'd
really like to see the mission in here because an executive is great at executing direction and following
the direction that the Board has given, all of our plans and our vision for the future. But what we also need
and has been discussed in previous meetings is that we need a people leader, a human leader.
And so the mission that we make lives better through connection, I think, plays a very key role in this. And
I don't see it necessarily in here. And so I'd like to make sure that we highlight that somehow with this
philosophy. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Dr. Guzman. I think that's a great point. I think we all took a lot of
pride in that we make lives better through connection. We run that through the whole agency. And
certainly I'll take a note to engage with Mr. Kroll and Ms. Polege to see if there's a way that we can work
that element in. Thank you for that. Is that all your questions, Director Guzman, for now? Great.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. My comments were mostly addressed by General Counsel Snyder. We've
been through this discussion before, some of more senior Board members may recollect, that a former
Director was always comparing the salary of the CDOT Director with the General Manager CEO of RTD.
And I think that's only one part of the picture. They're very different agencies. It's like comparing apples to
oranges. So I think we just need to be cautious about that.
As Ms. Polege has outlined, there are so many factors that can be weighed in. There's the private sector.
There's the market in Denver. There's the market nationally. And, as General Manager CEO Johnson
pointed out, where this agency is with regard to state of good repair and maintaining assets is very
different than somebody that's in a build mode.
So I appreciate all those factors, but we have to put them all together and not just compare the state
compensation, which is those directors of those state agencies. That's set by the governor and the
legislature. And ours is not so bound. So I just wanted to point that out.
And I do agree that somehow our mission needs to be woven into the overall broad-level discussion. So
thank you. I just wanted to put my two cents worth in, having been through this for a couple of other
times.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Director Catlin. I think that's a great point. And I see Ms. Polege raised
your hand for that. So please, go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: If I may, I just want to point out, Director Catlin, really strong statement you made
there. And one of the bullets, I think it's fourth from the bottom-- my eyes are working this Monday
morning-- consider specific agency variables, so our size, values, strategic goals, stage of evolution, our
geographical markets. Again, that's capturing exactly what you're talking about. It's the complexity of the
agency, which, as GM Johnson has said, will evolve over time.
And so I just want to reinforce, again, that the high-level generality, if you will, of the compensation
philosophy allows for that flexibility. And so then when the Board is engaging with a General Manager and

CEO search and then further engaging in establishing a contract, which this is not, these are the guiding
principles through which that you would consider where are you going to do your search, what your
candidate may look like, but also importantly, how you're going to compensate said candidate.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: I compliment you on the document. I think it really does lay out what we're able to do.
And thank you very much for your hard work, both you, Ms. Polege, and you, Mr. Kroll. I really like this as
a kind of an anchor for how we approach this philosophy.
So that's my two cents worth. I just didn't want to go down that same rabbit hole that we had been down,
with the previous Director always harping I'm the Executive Director of CDOT because they're just not the
same. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much. And, Ms. Polege, thanks for expounding on it. That fourth
to last bullet, I think it's awesome that it includes that stage is part of it since we've had some prior
meetings talking a lot about the stage of RTD and what that means for the type of CEO. So yeah, thank
you. Director Sloan, please, Vice Chair Sloan.
Director Sloan, we're not getting your audio. It sounds like it's really, really far away, like the microphone
is far away. I'm so sorry. We can't hear you. It sounds almost like a phone is connected to audio in
another room or-I got the thumbs up. I'm so sorry that, yeah, we're having a hard time. If you're able to rejoin, I'm happy to
come back to this, even if we've gone on to another agenda item. Other comments, other questions,
considerations?
Well, certainly I think the feedback of working in our mission is a good one. I think we can adapt that in. It
sounds like I'm going to take the silence as we're feeling good about the direction here. I think, again, I
think it's exciting that this is flexible. And think it's really clear that between that first bullet, we're seeing
where we would set the base salary but in consideration of some of the other bullets, like the stage of the
agency, like where we're competing. And then also we have that second bullet for the pay for
performance, which is something we talked about wanting, to be able to really incent performance against
our strategic objectives. And I think it's excellent.
And, Director Sloan, I see that you're back. Do you want to see how the audio is? I'll open the floor to you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I'll try again. Better?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Perfect.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I was really just going to echo Director Caitlin's remarks. Considering the wideranging discussion we had at the last Performance Committee meeting, it's remarkable that this
structured document was put together by really talented people. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you so much. Yeah, couldn't agree more. Well said. Any other discussion on
this? Oh, Director Guzman, please.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just one quick one. With respect to Ms. Johnson, who is our current GM CEO, and
what we're doing as a Board, just maybe some advice when we go talk to other Directors about this,
when Jack enters into those conversations or any of us do, that we have to separate this work from the
person. This is about the position that we hire for and not the person who fills it currently or may fill it in
the future, that this is supposed to be the high level. And I had a realization while I was going back
through our meetings that might be a sticking point for some people. And so we just need to be very clear
about what it is that we're doing and what it's for and what it's not. And so just the thought that I'm
throwing out there for everybody to consider if conversation comes up. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Very great reminder, Dr. Guzman. Thank you so much for saying that. And I have
some thoughts about next steps for this committee to go to our Board colleagues. But I know, Ms.
Johnson, you're going to have to leave. And I see your hand is up. So please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, thank you very kindly for the opportunity to address. And, Director Guzman,
thank you for approaching or broaching that question.
I think for a myriad of individuals that may be on this Board haven't had an opportunity to engage in a
performance review where you have discussions with individuals and recognizing that it's always about
the position and the talent and not the person. I think it would behoove this group collectively-- and I know
I've had conversations with the Chair of the Board, as well as you, the Chair of the Committee-- that it's
imperative that there is training and orientation provided.
And I, to be very, very authentic, I think that's been one of the problems relative to the performance
process here because there's been trepidation and angst about providing me feedback in a way in which I
know where the feedback is germinating from. And I don't personalize this, recognizing I've had the ability
to manage and lead high-functioning teams. It's part of leading a team. And when you engage in
dialogue, it's not about the person in and of itself. It's about the expected performance.
And managing expectations from the front end is often important because if there is an alignment around
what the expectations are when that feedback is brought full circle, whether it's 360 or not, there's an
understanding that there's work to do on both sides of the fence. So I would encourage you all to ensure
that there is some edification around that because one of the most challenging tactics for some
individuals being in an environment is actually leading and managing people. And it's not for the faint of
heart. So that's what I would impart. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you for those comments, Ms. Johnson. Very much appreciated. So
directly to a point that, Director Guzman, you alluded to, I think next steps here, I'd like to request
committee members to reach out to someone on the Board that is not part of this committee to discuss
this.
I'm going to send an email. I started sketching a list together. I'll ask just each committee member to take
one person. I have some of that written out. I just want to make sure I've got a good, organized list. I'll
send that.
And then I'll go ahead and reach out to the remainder to several members just to talk about this
compensation philosophy, share the draft, make sure everyone's seen it. I'll engage with Mr. Kroll and Ms.
Polege on capturing the mission incorporation here. And then if we could all just have a conversation with
a fellow Director between now and our September meeting, we can have a good idea of if there's going to
be any major sticking points. We can have a final draft together for this committee to vote on in

September and then bring forward to the full committee at the Board meeting in September. Ms. Johnson,
please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I would be remiss, Chair Davidson, not to point out that the next Performance
Committee is scheduled for September 4. That is a holiday. And recognizing how quickly time elapses, I
wanted to ensure that there was a conversation relative to scheduling. And I want to ensure that I am
available to participate as well because I have a personal interest. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Ms. Johnson, before you drop, sorry, we have this at the end of the meeting
here. So thanks for flagging that. So at the end, we'll discuss the scheduling. But before you have to go, I
think, let's just make sure, we want to target September 11. So the 4th is a holiday. The 11th, we want to
see if the committee can be available and if staff can be available.
So perhaps before Ms. Johnson drops, just a real quick look if there's any concerns there. We can also
take this offline, but that's the proposed next statement. Ms. Johnson, since you'll have to drop, would you
mind commenting, do you know if your calendar is currently open? We can also work it offline if you
prefer.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Tina Aragon could provide my availability. I do have some internal meetings already
scheduled, but I'm certain that we can adjust those accordingly with the appropriate individuals. So Tina
coordinate with the Board Office, as she typically does. So thank you. And then I would advise, too-ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would advise, too, if possible, if there is some meeting cadence, that we get that
scheduled because the fall will be quite difficult with recurring meetings and things of the like. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Much appreciated. Certainly one of the challenges of
this committee is it hasn't been a standing committee. And we've had a hard time setting a recurring
meeting. And I guess by picking Mondays, we hit all of these miscellaneous holidays.
So OK, so I will send out an email through the Board Office to the Committee on members to engage
with. And we will make this recommended action in September.
All right, thank you very much, everybody. We're going to move on to the second discussion item, which
is the CEO and General Manager performance appraisal process. Again, I'd like to open the floor to Mr.
Kroll and Ms. Polege to comment on this before we engage in discussion. But again, I'd like to just frame
up some general thoughts a little bit, particularly what this is and what this. This is actually partially just for
me to remember. And, Mr. Kroll, thanks for chatting me with me about this ahead of time of just how we
want to frame some of this.
So we've had a lot of discussion around wanting to improve the performance evaluation process. We did
have the opportunity to engage with Ms. Johnson in an Executive Session that I think provided value to
this group. But we've talked about a lot of different things.
So today we won't really go through the revisiting of the actual appraisal criteria and weighting. And so
thank you, Ms. Snyder, for helping pull out some of the highlights of the General Manager contract. It's in
the memo that we have in the discussion item. But with those appraisal criterion waiting, we won't discuss
that today.

Fortunately, we do have a construct in the agreement to revisit those and agree upon those for next year.
For this year, we have what we agreed to last year. We won't be revisiting the contract or any type of
amendments there and not actually doing any kind of evaluation here.
The purpose of this discussion is to start discussing the process of how we will evaluate. And I view this
kind of like, as we discussed the compensation philosophy, we had a chance for Mr. Kroll and Ms. Polege
to hear some of what's important to the committee. For us to discuss what's important, we could then
synthesize that and think about how to take this forward.
Some things I'd like to do, so as we think about how to approach the performance evaluation process,
there's a lot that can go into that. Some high-level questions that I have that's helpful as we go through
this discussion are things like how often do we meet? When we had the Executive Session, we started to
discuss the idea of having more frequent check-ins with our CEO and General Manager, perhaps within
the construct of Executive Session, how we formalize annually what goes into the record in terms of an
evaluation process, how we will ensure a strong understanding of what's going on in the agency from a
day-to-day basis and how our CEO and General Manager is interacting with her peers, and how we're
going to ensure consistency.
This reminds me very much of something we talked about in the Ad Hoc Audit Committee, that we
struggle with the fact that committees turn over annually. We have a Board that turns over. These things
are typical. But we have to create processes that outlive the members themselves. And so I think that's
also something that is a question to consider.
So those are some of the types of things I think we can get into, is how we want to approach evaluation,
what we think might work and not work. We have 2023 to take care of, where we have a lot of urgency to
make sure that we deliver performance evaluation feedback to Ms. Johnson this year. And then we have
the long term to look out for of what we're going to do in 2024 and beyond to continually improve this
process and make it resilient enough to sustain across multiple committees.
So just some general thoughts about what we can and can't discuss today, what we're hoping to gather,
I'd like to see if, Mr. Kroll and Ms. Polege, if there's any comments you want to make. Please don't feel
the need to do so, but if there's something you'd like to elaborate on, please go ahead. I'll start with Mr.
Kroll first if you'd like to make any comments.
JACK KROLL: Sure. And thank you, Director Davidson, for framing this very well. From where I sit, the
Board Office is just looking from direction [AUDIO OUT] usher the evaluation process over the finish line
and whether or not there's any additional check-ins, such as the one we had last month at this committee
meeting with GM and CEO Johnson, that you'd like to have for this year. And then for next year, what's
the cadence of any of those check-ins that you want to have?
I will say two things before I turn it over to-- two additional things before I turn it over to CPO Polege for
any additional comments. And the first is these are-- there's been some speed bumps along the way here
at RTD in this process, but these are fraught processes that all organizations struggle with, both public
and private. And building something that's sustainable is the goal here.
And the second thing that I've heard repeated from a lot of people that I just want to put out there's not so
much an issue, maybe at times, with the big E evaluation in the sense of everyone's on the same page
and knows what we're driving towards, but it's the little p, little e evaluation challenges that have come up.
And to be more specific, I think there's interest on all sides here of creating more forums and

opportunities for open and honest feedback between the GM and CEO and the Performance Committee
and the Board at large. And so that's what we're really trying to solve for, is how can we create and
facilitate as a Board Office with the assistance of the HR expertise we have here, as well as input from
the GM and CEO, on how to usher in a more regular cadence of constructive and consistent feedback
and dialogue going both directions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate it. Thank you for clearly articulating the ask
from the Board Office for direction from this committee. And thank you for framing it up. And more big P's
and little p's.
We had a lot of discussion over the last year or two about big P policy and little p policy. So I'm reminded
of that as you frame up and, I think, frame up very well the difference between that fully aligned big
performance evaluation and that more regular. So thank you for that. CPO Polege, if there's anything
you'd like to add or offer to the group or frame up, please go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I'll be really brief here. What I would strongly recommend is that the structure be
put in place. So that, regardless of changes within the Board from an elected perspective, that the
performance evaluation of your General Manager and CEO, whomever is in the chair, just keeps ticking
along, that the structure is solid, it's in place, and it's transparent.
And I stress that because engagement of your most senior executive is critical. And their performance is
of utmost importance to this committee and the Board by extension. And so ensuring that that process is
tight, that it is followed, and that it is prioritized is critical to make sure that that dialogue between your
General Manager and CEO and the Board is consistent and not happening-- not that it can't happen ad
hoc, but that it is the cadence, I think.
Mr. Kroll and I have discussed that. This is not a challenge that is unique to this agency. It's probably, in
my opinion, the number one, of the number one top priorities of the Board, is the management and
engagement of their General Manager and CEO. But it's also really challenging to get a formal process in
place.
So I strongly encourage that structured cadence. I know this discussion is about how 2023. But I also
know Mr. Kroll has indicated and Director Davidson's setting up the process for 2024 and the future.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you very much, Ms. Polege. I think that well frames the discussion. I do
want to-- I'm glad your hand's up, Ms. Johnson. I was hoping to start. We heard a lot from you in the past,
but your hand is up, so I want to open the floor to whatever topic you'd like to start with here. I don't have
any questions for you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, no, no, no, thank you very kindly for the opportunity. I just wanted to be really
clear in reference to my expectations relative to engaging with this Board. From a consistency vantage
point as we're going forward, I think the CPO, as well as our Executive Manager of the Board Office
touched upon this, we need to establish a process. I do want to be clear that I want to engage so nothing
is lost in translation, recognizing that there could be an intermediary used-- intermediary, excuse me-- but
don't want anything lost in translation. Quite naturally, as we go forward, it's important that people are
able to engage directly.
And I think I've had that opportunity with a myriad of different people on this Board, as we have one-onone discussions and things of the like. But collectively establishing what this may appear to be, I think it's

incumbent upon all of us, recognizing the role of the Chair. There's the role of the Performance Chair. But
then this committee as a whole, what will that look like?
Because I do know in some instances, just historically speaking, and when our Second Vice Chair was
working to get in a new CEO, and she know chaired that committee, while there was a subset group, the
entire Board wanted to be involved. And that could be something in and of itself. So I'm sharing that it
would be advantageous for everybody to know the rules of engagement and the trust factor relative to
whatever group is deemed to be the entity [AUDIO OUT] --ortant because there's 15 individuals and one
person in the General Manager/CEO's job. So think for continuity's sake, the element of trust amongst
members that form this policy body is paramount because if it needs to be all 15, then that needs to be
established, and a commitment needs to be made on the part of those individuals because it can cause
undue impacts relative to not having appropriate feedback to lead an organization. Thank you very kindly
for the opportunity to opine.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Ms. Johnson. I appreciate it. What I was hoping to learn from Directors
today is some of the things that are important and then also some general recommendations and
guidelines on this. And so, if I may, I want to just make sure I've got this clearly and echo back and see if
I'm missing anything from there because I think your feedback as our CEO and General Manager right
now is paramount for creating the process.
You mentioned the importance of consistency. You mentioned the importance of not losing anything in
translation, which I think is something we've talked about as having occurred from the anonymous
surveying process. You mentioned the trust that comes with commitment and that this committee needing
to have the clearly defined role of what this committee does as a whole and how it engages with the
Board, developing that trust and commitment. You mentioned continuity and having that continuity, which
I think goes hand in hand with having the right structure and having a strong structure in place.
Those are some of the things that I captured. Am I missing anything? Is there anything that just hearing
me echo that back you'd want to elaborate on any further?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Davidson, just more specifically relative to any
performance as it relates to me in the current role that I will be engaging directly as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. All right, let's go ahead and open up to committee members at this time for
things that are important considerations, general recommendations, thoughts about how to approach this
from a process standpoint. All right, cool. Dr. Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much. And thanks for all that input from others. I think this is a really
important question.
I think that our subjective way of doing the evaluation, coming out of our strategic planning retreat and all
of that, where we look at passion, respect, loyalty, diversity, trustworthiness, those things, collaboration,
they strike me as so personalized that I think many people didn't like that process when we went through
it. Maybe that was part of why it ended up being anonymous. I actually don't remember exactly what
happened there or why people wanted it that way.

And I know Director Davidson and I have had this discussion some. I didn't find those helpful. I think that
moving that to KPIs, what Ms. Johnson's teams are doing, what has been accomplished and really the
goals and behaviors-- not behaviors-- the goals and accomplishments is a much better way to start the
performance process. I may have more comments, but I will leave it at that. Thanks for now.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I think, yeah, definitely that those anonymous
thoughts and those organizational values that we evaluate on, I think while important, we didn't have a
great process for capturing them.
I had a couple ideas that, actually, I think, Ms. Polege, one of the articles you sent had really gotten. It
was interesting. But, anyway, let's make sure to come back to that because I think that's a really important
point of we just didn't seem to capture that feedback really well. Committee Vice Chair Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Oh yes, I like the way Chair Guissinger expressed it as goals and accomplishments.
And evaluation is not just a hard process for every organization, but it's really difficult for boards, no
matter how big they are, to evaluate their one employee who's been in charge of everything else. And this
is similar to city manager, to city council. Employees struggled in the city of Golden for years with this and
found the most open and frank exchange would happen at an executive session, a roundtable, face to
face, where each person had the opportunity to talk. And the CEO would have the opportunity to respond
as well.
Quarterly seems to come up way too often. So I was thinking maybe one session like this in connection
with the formal evaluation. And maybe one other in the other half of the year could potentially be worked
out if we had a format of how to approach it and what the focus should be. And, again, I believe it should
be on goals and accomplishments as just a general way of getting the Board and the CEO on the same
path or understanding if there is an outlier that that's a separate Board issue that can be worked out. And
it could be done under the guise of the Performance Committee if we expand the scope of the
committee's charges so that every member of the Board can weigh in at the time. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Vice Chair Sloan for the comments. It turns out it's hard to get 15
opinions into one. Yeah, I think great points.
And just to make sure I've captured that correctly, you were suggesting that using the Executive Session
for that direct roundtable discussion. And maybe what you're suggesting is maybe there's two of those.
There's one that is a check-in and one that is more aligned with the formal-- the formal evaluation, which
then would have formal evaluation going alongside Executive Session check-in and then having had an
earlier check-in session. Did I capture that? And focused around goals, accomplishments, KPIs. Did I
capture that correctly?
Great. Thank you. And I think during that, I saw that, Board Office Executive Manager Kroll, you raised
your hand. Is there a comment you wanted to make about any of that specifically?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Director Davidson. I just wanted to seek some clarity from Director Sloan on
your idea for semiannual meetings here. Are you imagining that would be semiannual with the full board
or-- because you have made a comment that quarterly seemed too frequent. And so I'm just trying to suss
out in your mind, is quarterly too frequent for the full Board? Is it too frequent for the Performance
Committee? What are you thinking there?

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, I'm just thinking that we have so many regularly scheduled items that come
up quarterly. This is important. And I wouldn't like people skipping it because it's just one more thing.
Quarterly for the performance committee, but, of course, with a strong encouragement for the rest of the
Board to participate as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you for the additional clarity, Mr. Kroll and Director Sloan. Director Catlin,
please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with Chair Guissinger that we need to really align this
more with KPIs, actual performance. I think many of us-- and I look to Director Buzek-- were concerned
about the rather squishy process that we had before. And I really like that.
But I would look to some of the members here as well as our Board Office Executive Manager. Many of
you have served on boards previously. I mean, Director Davidson, Director Buzek, and Director Sloan
referenced the City Manager, City Council process.
But I think there are some good examples of structure out there that would help me inform my thoughts
about this process so that we have a much more structured environment. And so I would ask some of you
with your expertise and some of our other Directors for theirs, with what they think works and what works
in perpetuity and doesn't just change with the whims of a new elected Board, that we can put a process in
place that works regardless of which Directors are sitting in these seats.
That's just my comment. I would really like to get some good examples. And certainly, Mr. Kroll, your
experience on the CU Board of Regents is also valuable. I seem to recall that you said that you chaired
an executive search for the President of the University. And you looked at certain attributes that aligned
with the goals of the University. And we're not comparing apples to apples here, but I think there can be
examples brought forth from a number of different boards that we can use to structure this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for framing that, Director Catlin. I think that's a great idea. Maybe we could
just run through and get people's input. If Chief People Officer Polege is willing to jump in and Mr. Kroll is
willing to jump in, I'd love to hear that. And committee members, I think many of us have been on other
boards. Dr. Guzman and I had a chance to talk about that the other day actually about different board
experiences.
I'll throw out there that my board experiences are definitely very different. I've lived a lot in small
companies, in the private sector, in startups. But it's funny, I've never really met a CEO or a board that's
thrilled with their process for this. I've seen some better than others. In many ways, I'm realizing I was
very lucky in my first opportunity to be on the other side of a board and be the CEO, that I did have a
pretty good group put together, I think more by luck than anything else.
I definitely think one thing that really helps is having visibility to the engagement of the CEO with staff and
an understanding of the operations. And I think with an agency of our size, the Board being structured the
way it is, the Board with the size it is, that's difficult. And, Ms. Polege, you sent an article to Mr. Kroll and
myself that was really interesting, where the performance committee of Arrow Electronics had little
assignments where committee members went and engaged with staff members and had dialogue about
how various things were going that they could bring back to the committee.
I'm not suggesting we necessarily do something like that, but I know that the best performance evaluation
I've seen is when it's really grounded in reality. And I think for myself, I benefit greatly by being with a lot

of small, early-stage, fast-moving entities, where things are moving so quickly, the directors almost they
have so much visibility into other staff members, everything that's going on, that there's a very real
understanding of the day to day. There are significant limitations to that. And those represent the friction, I
think, between CEO and Board that I've seen.
But when it's grounded in that reality of what's going on, I think it's really helpful. And so one of the things
that occurs to me is if the performance committee had some method or some process that as part of its
job, as part of its duty is to deeply understand the stresses of the day to day, what's going on, and
understanding how the CEO and General Manager is engaging with each functional area, I think it just
naturally lends itself to more high-quality feedback. So perhaps that's not offering too much, but from my
limited view and how I've experienced this, to your question, Dr. Catlin, is having it be really grounded in
the understanding.
So I'd be curious to hear what other Directors answer to your prompt. But, Director Catlin, please go
ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think I like that. And I've always been a fan of more of a 360 review process, staff. But
I'm kind of nervous about that engagement because I think there's a tendency for folks in that discussion
with staff to go into the operations and to start directing. And I just want to make sure that if Directors are
engaging with or these committee members are engaging with staff, that we do it with some ground rules
established, that we do not delve into problem solving or directing or anything like that, but that we keep it
at a-- seek to understand by listening and probing but so that we can provide feedback to the General
Manager and not-- I just fear that it would devolve into something that we don't want to do. Sorry. Those
are my two cents.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Director Catlin. Yeah, that's the risk of those kinds of-- yeah. Mr. Kroll, I
see you raised your hand during those comments.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I think that that could be-- and CPO Polege may have some better insights on this,
but something like what you've described, Director Davidson, and what you've commented on, Director
Catlin, that could be something that we facilitate through the Board Office, either with or without any sort
of external support. I think if we wanted to do a full-on 360, that's definitely something that we could do. I
think that would have to be something that got put into place in 2024. I don't think we have enough time in
this calendar year, but it's something that we've discussed already and certainly something we could note
in this.
I will add just some insights from my previous role at the University of Colorado with respect to engaging
people throughout the organization. CU is very different from a transit organization in that it stands on the
values of shared governance. And so there was a very intentional effort made every year that we
successfully did an evaluation. I qualify that with "every year we successfully did an evaluation" doesn't
mean that it happened every year in that the Board Office would go in conjunction with the Chair of the
Board and meet with the shared governance leaders from the faculty side, from the staff side, and from
the student side to get feedback. There was also an effort made to solicit feedback from people down the
organizational chart from the President, so the vice presidents and the chancellors and the various direct
reports. And that can be put into place.
I don't think we have the same shared governance model here. I think it would be probably a little
challenging and perhaps not appropriate to go to say the union head and say, what do you think? That's

all governed by the negotiation between the union and the district. But those are some thoughts that I
have based off of what was said earlier.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you for offering that, Mr. Kroll. And, Ms. Polege, please go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. I just want to-- excuse me-- touch on just a few things. So, actually,
having a quarterly conversations, whether that be the performance committee and then maybe at once a
year with the full Board, however, I think having those regular check-ins-- and I'll just share my
experience, having worked with boards in private and nonprofit public sector for over eight years. I've
seen where a committee, like the Executive Committee, as it was suggested, the Present and/or CEO in
those organizations was their title, that would be a conversation between, in those cases, an HR
committee of the Board but just the Board and the GM and CEO. And often you might have at that time
your Board Secretary, who would be there to ensure that governance and process was followed.
But those meetings, no other staff member from the agency present, effectively. It might be a little
different here. Maybe that could be Snyder, Ms. Snyder, General Counsel Snyder or Executive Manager
Kroll, however.
But the greater point is that those are just ongoing conversations. It would be at the end of the meeting.
You have a dialogue. And it would be to review progress on expectations, whatever those may be.
And I'll just touch on one of the pieces. Should the performance committee and, ultimately, the Board
adopt a compensation philosophy, when you're looking at your pay-for-performance perspective, it
indicates with a framework. So there will be work that the Board will need to do to develop what that
framework looks like.
But you could have short-term incentive goals and long-term incentive goals. And your short-term
incentive goals could be things around culture and climate, the day-to-day operation, the leadership
pieces, succession planning. There's so many opportunities there.
And they would be drafted so they're not just a subjective, but they are KPIs. So here's where we're at,
and here's where we need you to go. And then those conversations every quarter are really, where are
we at? And we're reinforcing. You're hearing about maybe challenges. But I think there's real potential
here to set that consistent structure.
The last thing I would say around getting feedback-- and I have shared this with Director Davidson, and
certainly I've also suggested it would not be something that I would suggest you would use internal HR
expertise on, not because I can't, but just for obvious-- it'll be obvious when I say it. You can do a 360.
And the Board could actually create a customized 360, which, in my opinion, is the best 360 there is
because you can customize it based on what the KPIs, the deliverables, the movement, the needles
you're looking to have moved, you can customize that. And you could do that each year. And it's part of
that process.
And you could facilitate an external resource to assist with that. And then that develops the plan for the
year, as well as works as your assessment piece. And so then you can go a little bit more into the agency
as part of this 360 assessment without that feeling of the Board interfering because you've established
the assessment to be high level. So you're keeping it at the strategic level that you want it to be without
going down because you've controlled it by creating that yourselves as an assessment tool. So just

wanted to add that. And it's, in my opinion, as I said, I think customized 360s are the most powerful
because they are directly hitting what you're looking to achieve, you want your GM and CEO to achieve.
The last thing I would say, this work also helps us as an agency because the goals of the General
Manager and CEO should then push down into anything pertaining to culture, people. I need to be owning
that, then, and helping move the needle so that all of us are stepping forward in the same direction, not
the GM and CEO has these goals, and then I've crafted something separate.
So making it a SMART goal, we're doing them internally, needs to be specific, measurable, attainable,
realistic, and timely. You can measure those. And you can draft them. And then you can measure them.
So you can see where the progress is or is not in any given cycle. So that's the last thing I'll say on that.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That is extremely helpful. Thank you so much for offering all of that. Yeah, great.
Thank you. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, thank you, Ms. Polege. When I was saying ground rules, you framed up
something that I really like because that gives-- if Directors are engaging with staff, that sets the
framework by how they engage. And that's, I think, moving forward, hopefully for 2024, we could put
something like that in place. I really like that idea. Thank you. You've articulated what I was thinking but
could not articulate as well. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you so much. I know as we approach the top of the time, I know we have
some time conflicts or hard stops coming up. So yeah, great. Director Guzman, I was going to call on you.
I'm glad because I know you're one of the ones who has to leave. So glad your hand's up. Please, go
ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. So I just want to make sure I'm hearing a couple of things. And I'm in
agreement with some of them, and I'm struggling with others.
Ongoing conversation with an employee is really important. And so I don't know how often or how not
often to do that. And I understand the hesitancy to set meetings and then have people not show up.
Obviously, I've missed one of our committee meetings here due to scheduling issues. And so this
particular work is really important.
Ms. Johnson is gone. And so just as an employee of another employer and having done this work on
other boards and with other committees and with other agencies, the feedback is necessary, but so is the
opportunity to speak up from the agency level as an employee to the employer to say, here's what's going
on. And I think we've experienced that together, all of us in our previous meetings when we get some of
that key information back from an employee. I can't speak for Debra, but I can say from an employee to
an employer point of view, I think those conversations are really important. So the idea of cadencing out
meetings in whatever format we do that with is really important.
One of the things that Ms. Polege referred to was having a plan with SMART goals. It's kind of dumb. I
work with coffee, but I'm not going to excuse that because the work that I do in my cafe every day is
exactly the work that we're doing on this committee with my partners, with my employees. And we have
ongoing conversations that happen biweekly, monthly, quarterly, semiannually. And annually we have the
big review, right? And everything leads up to that big review.

And so it's a lot more often and a lot more in depth. I'm not doing those with every single partner. I'm
doing them with a few of my partners. And each supervisor or manager takes on a chunk of people. We
have a pod that we work with.
The 15 of us have one employee that we have to attend to. And we've been put on this committee to do
that work. And so I think the more engagement we have, the better.
For the purposes of making sure there is continuity, having things documented and written down, this is
the plan. This is where we need to see movement. This is where you're doing well at. We're not worried
about that part. But we do want to see the work over here get done.
How are we going to make goals to do that and align with? And then we can have the conversation about
here's what I'm facing, and here's what's challenging in this moment, from the employee back up to this
committee. And that can be then taken to the Board. If it's documented correctly and there's agreement
on both sides, when that's presented to the Board, there's no surprises for anybody.
The KPIs, whether they are short term or long term, that's really important. But how we speak to those, I
think, says a lot about how we as a Board look at the agency. And so I'm wondering what those look like
in terms of how they are couched.
And what mean is to say we talk about "as it pertains to community value," as it pertains to this particular
piece of whatever document we're looking at or thing we're working on. I guess for me, I'm very
comfortable saying, "Under the value of respect, these are the things that we're looking for as key
indicators. And under the value of inclusivity, these are the things we're looking for," right? And so I'm not
sure how our KPIs in this process are aligned for.
There's also a very simple way to do it. You're either not meeting the expectation, meeting the
expectation, or you have exceeded the expectation. And I think this is a CEO/GM, GM/CEO-level
evaluation. It can be as simple as starting there. Are we meeting the expectation or not?
And then the critical feedback that comes from us-- and I don't say critical to criticize. Critical feedback,
meaning feedback given to improve and further the conversation that is important to both the indicator but
also to the conversation and the person, can then be given to fill-in-the-blank from the people that need to
give it, right? And so are we willing to do that? I just don't know what that looks like.
I've heard that we did this anonymously last year. I'm also going to say, I'm not a fan of anonymity. It is
not effective, and it is not a good tool, because there can be no clarity afterwards. And if something gets
said, it can be hidden behind and not honest.
And so I think those are the things that I wanted to highlight and say. I think ongoing meetings are
important. I think having these drafted out, KPIs, listed with values and ability to say where we are, yes or
no, we're meeting this or not, an opportunity to discuss why we believe that, where we're going to move
forward to, SMART goals, and then on no anonymity. I don't think that's an effective approach to doing
this type of work, especially with the consummate professional. And that tells a tale about how this Board,
if that's the type of thing we put into place, will continue with further people that we're trying to recruit or
retain.
And I wouldn't want to be in that situation. I don't know if any of you would. But just thinking from an
employee perspective, if we're trying to recruit somebody to come in, and we're not telling them who's
saying what and thereby not building up the trust, we have a problem.

That's all I have. I'm sorry. I do need to go. But I appreciate the conversation and all of your thoughts. And
I'm looking forward to getting more done. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Guzman. Very much appreciate it. Thank you.
Yeah, it's great. I think a lot of great feedback there. Other committee members, other comments about
past experiences? Other ideas?
So I've just got a couple of thoughts to offer. I think I like the idea of having some regular check-ins with
the CEO and General Manager to stay plugged in on what's going on from an agency standpoint and
provide some of that feedback.
I think we've heard the semiannual. We've discussed quarterly. I think there's probably some good
thinking to put into some of that. I personally would love the idea of quarterly for this committee. I think for
the greater Board, we could keep something on an annual basis.
I would say that for 2023, just practically speaking, with the time that we have, we'll need to frame up
some kind of process for gathering feedback from our fellow Directors. I think, given what we've heard, it
would make sense to make an improvement to this year's process over last year's to correct some of the
things we've heard highlighted as problems, like the anonymous feedback component, the way in which it
was delivered.
I think, Director Sloan, you brought up a great concept of the roundtable, of everybody getting an
opportunity to speak. And so maybe there's some work we can do. And, Mr. Kroll, I'd love to engage with
the Board Office and engage with Ms. Polege to the extent that we can leverage your expertise here, but
perhaps we could frame something up that is a structured roundtable for this year, where we're using the
criteria and weightings that we, of course, adopted last year, but in a structured session to get rid of the
anonymity, have a more direct conversation, and then determine how to memorialize that in a written
format.
So I'm not putting forward a specific recommendation other than 2023, I think we have some type of
session to deliver the feedback so it's directly given. And then we have a written component. Perhaps we
have another check-in between that and the performance. I would throw that out there for consideration.
And then for 2024, I think we should work on a more resilient process. There are firms out there that can
assist us with this in delivering the actual performance evaluation. I know that that's, Ms. Polege, thanks
for highlighting that a customized 360 could be something of great value. But for perhaps obvious
reasons, that wouldn't be something that our internal HR team would be the ones to administer and
deliver. So we could partner together to put together some sort of long-term process like that, put together
a scope of work if we were to look for any kind of outside firm.
So I think we need to start working on 2024 but also really prioritize, what are we going to do for 2023? I
think so far, we've gotten quite a bit of good feedback to consider if we are to frame up some proposals to
bring forward in September about how to approach this year. Director Guissinger, I see that your hand is
up. Please, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a question and then a comment. I know we got to this process. We're looking
at all these values-- loyalty, trustworthiness, diversity, passion, all of those things-- through the strategic
plan retreat.

I'm not sure how we got to the anonymity. And I don't know if anybody knows that. I'm just thinking in
terms of talking to other Board members and moving forward in a different way. Did that just come out of
the TransPro process? Does anybody remember? Did it just happen? Maybe it just happened. OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I don't know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I think to me, an important first step this year-- I agree with all of what you're
saying and what's being said. And I think Ms. Polege and Mr. Kroll both had very good, helpful comments
for how we move forward with this.
But I do think starting to move to more-- well, the goals and accomplishments, the KPIs this year, and
getting away from those-- clearly I've mentioned it now-- the personalized loyalty, trustworthiness makes it
much easier for people to give comment and make the anonymity not as big a concern. So I would like to
see, if we make one change this year, that is the one I would like to see us start to put into place.
And then the meeting exceeding, not meeting, that could be part of it. But I think we all agree that's not
necessarily where we need to go. We want to be hearing from our CEO what she's working on, what
needs to be prioritized, those sorts of things, and be able to give direct feedback on those projects.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Yeah, thank you very much for that, Chair Guissinger. Ms. Polege, please, go
ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I just wanted to offer-- and my apologies, Chair Guissinger and to the committee. I
wasn't here. I mean, I guess I started December 15, so I don't know what was set at the beginning.
But I do just want to make sure I fully support, as I think you can tell, the KPIs. Great care would need to
be taken. Given that it's July, if the KPIs were to be set in July, there is an increased risk of-- I can think
four performance appraisal risks that could come up-- recency theory, halo effect. I'm talking HR stuff, but
just because it's July.
So because those KPIs would now be-- it would be important on both sides that if they are to be set-- and
I'm not sure what the context would be with respect to GM Johnson's contract. I have no insight there. But
we'd have to be cautious. We, being the Board, would need to be really cautious with what those were
because you're setting them now into July. So my suggestion would be whatever you would be setting or
what you thought you were going to be assessing on, again, SMART goals so that it's something that's
attainable. Otherwise, you run the risk potentially of being a demotivator when you're actually trying to be
positive and set something that's very clearly objective.
So just wanted to add that in as just a caution piece. And I think a facilitated discussion on what those
KPIs might be for 2023, if I understood directly what you were saying, Chair Guissinger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Chair Guissinger, please, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, no, that's a super helpful warning. And I actually wasn't thinking about setting
KPIs right now as much, although that's all part of this process as we move forward. I guess in my mind,
the important piece is the engagement with our CEO and hearing what she's focused on and giving
feedback on where we see that is. And I understand the problems with doing that this year because we
are so late.

But whatever we can do to-- that's what I think was the failure of last year's process, was that Debra was
saying, I don't-- when somebody says "gave feedback anonymously and based on these other values," it
wasn't particularly helpful to her. I don't think it was particularly helpful to us either. So that's a super a
super helpful recommendation. And maybe it reminds us we have to do something sort of-- baby steps
this year, but to get to that kind of dialogue is really what my goal would be. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Chair Guissinger. And, again, I think, yeah, good thoughts that will
inform, I think, our 2024 process. Ms. Polege, I'll go to you first.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Just very quickly-- thanks, Mr. Kroll. I just want to say, Chair Guissinger,
you're spot on. And I as we saw in the language, and I think it was in the prior conversations around the
compensation philosophy, transparency-- so transparency is key. What are you expecting the GM/CEO to
do? What would success look like?
And then all parties, the Board and the General Manager and CEO, need to have transparency on what
that looks like. What we wouldn't want in any organization is for the Board to be expecting one
deliverable. The communication isn't really clear on what success looks like. And then said GM and CEO,
whomever they may be, goes off and invests a lot of time, effort, and work, but it actually doesn't return
the results because there was a lack of transparency and clarity on what success looks like.
And then not only has the Board not achieved, the agency hasn't achieved the level of success they were
looking for, that GM and CEO has potentially wasted time and effort and also could then be demotivating.
So whatever those are, it's important when setting any goals, understanding what actually does success
look like?
And why I will reinforce SMART again is if it's achieved a increase by x% on anything, just pick
something, there's also the quality. How did we get there? Because sometimes you can increase a metric
positive but actually have a very negative unintended consequence, depending on how that result was
attained.
And so I have lots of examples of that in the private sector, where let's cut people so we can meet
financial measurements. But then the unintended consequence later is disastrous in the future state. So
appreciate your comments and just wanted to highlight transparency, transparency, transparency.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. That's great. Thank you. Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I want to be cognizant of our time here. And I want to throw back some of the
feedback that I think I've heard and see if I'm headed in the right direction here.
So let's frame what has to happen for the rest of the year. So there are two evaluations that were-- two,
excuse me, surveys that were done agency wide and then externally that inform some of the performance
metrics that we have to wait on timing issues for. So we have the Employee Feedback survey. That's in.
The results are available. So that's one piece.
But the second piece is the Customer Excellence-- Community Value and Customer Excellence Survey.
And those results are expected in early to mid October. And I see Chief Administrative Officer Riley has
joined-- well, she's been here, but she's maybe got something to add on that. And so it would be good to
hear from her. So those are going to be available in October.

And starting in November, and Melanie, General Counsel Snyder, I might not get this exactly right, but
GM and CEO Johnson is afforded the opportunity to put forward a self-evaluation, which is kind of the first
move in getting to the final evaluative process. And then there needs to be an evaluation done by the end
of the year. If it's not done, then it's assumed that she meets all of the performance expectations.
And also what needs to happen by the end of the year, to Chair Guissinger's point or comments, is that
there needs to be a plan drafted for next year. What I would recommend, Chair Guissinger, given your
concerns around the evaluation being a bit squishy on some of these subjective measures of respect and
things like that, is there's going to have to be some sort of evaluation done there. But the conversation
that you all have with the GM and CEO is part of in part of this process. You as the Chair or perhaps
Director Davidson as the Chair of this committee really get to drive the boundaries of that conversation
and really can steer that conversation towards one that's focused on some of these more objective,
objectively measurable goals.
And so some of the things that I've heard is we don't want to do anonymous feedback this year. I think it
would be good, and I've heard a couple of people say that maybe there's one more check-in perhaps that
comes in October before the formal evaluation process really kicks off in earnest in November and
December. So I think those are two things that I've heard.
I do think it would be good for the Board to dust off the survey that we pushed out last year to Board
members just to use it as a tool to facilitate feedback. But if there's any thoughts on that, I'm open to it.
And I think we can talk some more, Chair Guissinger, around your concerns around focusing too much on
some of these subjective measures of performance. I would not recommend that the Board reopen a
conversation on what you're going to measure the CEO on for this year. I think that's kind of stayed, but
you can control that conversation a little bit and set the boundaries and really focus on some of the more
objective goals there. That's what I got.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Kroll, thanks for recapping all that, very helpful timeline. You mentioned the
surveys and that perhaps Ms. Riley might want to comment. OK if not, but, Ms. Riley, if there's anything
you'd like to comment on, please go ahead.
LEAH RILEY: Yeah, I've got it right. I just wanted people to know I was here if other questions arose
regarding the surveys. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Yeah, Mr. Kroll, I think you synthesized very well what we've
heard here, what some of the things that have to be done. I think to me, it's very clear that we need to
have some kind of direct check-in with CEO and General Manager to deliver feedback.
I also would suggest, I'm going to throw out there that perhaps that is timed around it would be helpful to
hear Ms. Johnson deliver her self-evaluation with a check-in-style manager. I think that would open up an
interesting dialogue to hear her give her context as to why she's evaluated a certain way because last
year, perhaps it was not being on the Performance Committee, but it did feel like just sort of an exchange,
just I'll send you mine, you send me yours. We all read each other's. And then if there's any lack of clarity,
we didn't discuss a whole lot. So perhaps we frame some check-ins around that.
I think there's enough here that, Mr. Kroll, I'd love to engage with you offline so we can discuss how to
gather this feedback, how to synthesize this, how to create some kind of plan. And then, Ms. Polege, I
think we can then reach out to you with areas that we'd like to request any expertise and assistance and
partnership on this. Thank you, again, for all of the help there.

And then we can come back to this committee with some thoughts based around the feedback that we
got here about how to go next. And, much like the compensation philosophy, the challenge is we need to
move very quickly in September. So August can really be a working month to work on some of these
things.
So with that, any other comments, questions, concerns about the evaluation process discussion items?
All right. Well, thank you very much, everybody. I appreciate it.
Mr. Kroll, I'll go back to something that you said early on, and certainly my experience with boards that
Director Catlin had asked about. Nobody's perfect in this area. This is a hard thing to do. And here, Mr.
Kroll, you were at the APTA conference last year. If it's anything I learned by sitting in on some of the
discussions around CEO evaluation for our transit agencies, it's that a lot of boards have some of these
same questions.
So kind of like we dealt with on the Audit Committee and needing to overhaul, there's a chance to not just
get this right, but also to lead and create some good frameworks for our boards for the future. So thanks
to everybody for engaging in that process. Back to that original discussion item, I will send out just a
request for folks to reach out to other Board members. With that, are there any other matters to discuss at
this committee meeting?
All right, we will send out through the Board Office coordination to try to aim for September 11. Sounds
like I'll just need to coordinate with Ms. Aragon on the General Manager's availability. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Just to offer a piece of levity here with respect to how challenging these things can be, the
Host Transit Agency, they did a panel yesterday and impaneled three of their Board members. And the
first comment out of one of the Board members' mouth was, well, we've had four to five CEOs in the last
three years. So that's not us. We can certainly do better. So yeah.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wow. Yeah, that's tough challenges. Well, thank you for that. And thank you very
much, everybody, for going over. My apologies. We are going to go ahead. Seeing no other discussion,
we're going to adjourn at 10:04 AM Mountain Time. Thanks, everybody. Take good care.

