1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, December 2, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:17 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

4:55 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District B

Present
Remote

5:20 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Committee Chair
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:04 PM
5:19 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Absent
Present

5:22 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:39 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Remote

5:10 PM

5:18 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:17 PM

Directors Deadwyler and Solano participated via phone. Directors Lasater and RiveraMalpiede were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Mike Barnes, Mark Baudermann, Tara
Bettale, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Lee Cryer, Robert Downes,
Martell Dyles, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Terry
Howerter, Ali Imansepahi, Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley,
Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Jim Maguire, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Tom Papadinoff, Mace
Pemberton, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp,
Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Phil
Washington, Brian Welch, Nikita Zanichkowsky

Others Present:

Marion Combs, Heather Cronenberg, Mike Dino, Patricia Doersch,
Jane Donovan, Aaron Epstein, Jared Fleisher, Tina Francone, Eugene
Howard, Ken Kolano, Brian Middleton, Kevin O’Neill, Laura Rinker,
Roger Sherman, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions presented.

C. Updates

• Annual Squire Patton Boggs Report
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications, informed the
Directors that the members of Squire Patton Boggs were running late due to
a meeting with staff. Committee Chair Folska used the opportunity to
encourage the Directors to review the agenda and ask questions after the
presentation.
Chair Sisk reminded the Directors that the events honoring the art contest
winners would happen on Monday, December 8 and Tuesday, December 9.
He commended the efforts of Committee Chair Folska and Paula Perdue,
Executive Director of the Board Office on the art contest. Chair Sisk asked
Committee Chair Folska to explain the details of the events. Committee
Chair Folska said that the I Heart My RTD contest came from how she feels
about RTD. She compared the contest participants to the Commuter Rail
ribbon cutting before the Government Relations Committee Meeting as they
are both the future of RTD. She said the contest combined art and
community engagement. Committee Chair Folska expressed that she got
teary-eyed when meeting the participants and winners at their schools. She
noted that the events of December 8 and 9 have quite a list of public and

elected officials attending. She said that the wrapped bus will be at the RTD
Administrative Offices on December 16th prior to the Board Meeting. The
winners will be recognized during this meeting. She pointed out that the
winners asked that each design wrapped one side of the same bus, creating
unity. Committee Chair Folska finalized her remarks by commending RTD’s
marketing team on their flawless job. She expressed her gratitude to
Georgann Van Gemert, Marketing Account Executive, and Steve Reilly,
Manager for Marketing Communications.
Kevin O’Neill, Partner at Squire Patton Boggs, introduced Patricia Doersch,
Of Counsel for Squire Patton Boggs, Jared Fleisher, Attorney for Squire
Patton Boggs, and Mike Dino, Senior Public Policy Advisor for Squire Patton
Boggs. The Squire Patton Boggs team presented their briefing for the RTD
Board of Directors included in the Government Relations Committee Meeting
packet for December 2, 2014. The presentation covered RTD’s Recent
Achievements, Federal Priorities for 2015 and the 2015 Congressional Visit
Plan.
Committee Chair Folska asked Kevin O’Neill who from RTD the Squire
Patton Boggs team consulted when creating the presentation. Kevin O’Neill
replied that the team consulted with Sherry Ellebracht, RTD’s Government
Relations Officer, as they have done in previous years. Committee Chair
Folska said that the discussion during this presentation was the opportunity
for the Board to provide their feedback.
During the RTD’s Recent Achievements discussion, Kevin O’Neill said that it
was great to be part of the commuter rail ceremony. He added that his
team has worked with RTD throughout the years and remembers the preconstruction site. He noted that it was great to see how RTD has influenced
the region.
Patricia Doersch said that RTD has had great success in securing funding
from different sources, including Transportation Infrastructure Finance and
Innovation Act (TIFIA) for New Starts. She mentioned that RTD has the
national distinction of making itself available as a resource to other agencies.
Kevin O’Neill added that part of RTD’s success can be attributed to its
strong relationship with the Colorado Congressional delegation throughout
the years.
During the Federal Priorities discussion, the Squire Patton Boggs team
emphasized the following as priorities:
 Securing New Starts funding for EAGLE P3 FasTracks projects,
including Southeast extension





MPA-21 Reauthorization including funding levels, policy battles for
transit versus other modes, and definitions of transit elements that
impact RTD future operations
Maintaining Stakeholder Engagement, including keeping federal
policymakers informed and on-board

Kevin O’Neill noted that Congress is in the midst of a lame duck session. He
said that one of the processes being worked out is separating the
Department of Homeland Security into a short-term continuing resolution
(CR) instead of it being part of the long-term omnibus bill in order to address
immigration separately.
Director Solano addressed the immigration subject. He stated that
transportation will offer new mobility to these new Americans. This mobility
will transport them to their means of employment. He stressed that it must
be a fair rate that is affordable in order to accommodate society as a whole.
The Squire Patton Boggs team continued with the presentation. They
discussed stakeholder engagement, the new transportation leaders in
Congress for 2015-2016, and the Directors’ visit to Congress and the
Department of Transportation. Mike Dino pointed out that during APTA’s
Legislative Conference the Senate will be in session while the House will be
in recess. He said that Squire Patton Boggs will manage the Directors’ time
responsibly.
Director Solano inquired regarding the repatriation tax. He noted that most
corporations get a tax break for doing businesses out of the country. He
asked about the likelihood of passing a repatriation tax given the new
makeup of Congress. Kevin O’Neill answered that repatriation is very
popular on a bipartisan basis. He said that the United States is one of the
few countries that taxes its corporations for income made abroad. He noted
that there are diverse opinions on how the repatriation tax funds should be
used. Patricia Doersch noted that Representative Dave Camp has proposed
a retroactive tax payable over 8 years. She said that Senator Michael
Bennet has proposed low interest long term bonds as a way to transfer
those funds to the country. Director Solano expressed his agreement with
Senator Bennet’s proposal.
Director Bagley asked about the chances of RTD receiving the $150 million
for the Eagle P3 project in 2015. He also inquired about the possibility of
the SE extension being funded. He reminded the Directors that RTD is
funding $65 million of the SE extension and that the private sector and local
community are funding $25-$40 million. Jared Fleisher replied that the
appropriation should be somewhere between $1.9 and $2 billion. He said
that would allow the Federal Transit Agency (FTA) to come very close to the

scheduled $150 million. Funding beyond 2015 will need to be figured out.
Kevin O’Neill added that the Squire Patton Boggs team will remind the
members of Congress of RTD’s excellent track record as well as the
extraordinary local and private sector match for the SE extension.
Director Walker asked if the Vehicles Miles Traveled (VMT) tax was still
being discussed. Kevin O’Neill replied that it was still part of the
conversation. He added that due to privacy concerns it would most likely
not be included in the next bill.
Director Tobiassen pointed out that the conversation every year seems to
follow the same cycle of “the sky is falling due to lack of funding” and every
year RTD and municipalities manage to find funding and move forward. He
said that solutions are only found when it becomes a burning problem. He
acknowledged that local and state governments are doing a great job of
making the system work. Patricia Doersch agreed with Director Tobiassen.
She added that we cannot keep crying wolf and that a more permanent
solution needs to be found. Jared Fleisher noted that the reason
transportation has been muddling through was due to the $62 million
transfer to the Highway Trust Fund. He wondered how long that would be
sustainable.
Director Lubow said that the MAP21 criteria that had put BRT restrictions on
RTD was created to benefit the “winners” and “losers” at the time. She
noted that she sensed the new political composition would change who the
“winners” and “losers” are and that this shift on politics may benefit RTD.
Jared Fleisher pointed out that this was a more articulate way of saying
what he was trying to say. Kevin O’Neill added that changes may happen
because the “long term winners” are looking at a much smaller pot of gold
and their objective is to shrink the pool of eligibility.
Director Lubow asked if anyone was following Oregon’s VMT pilot program.
Patricia Doersch said that Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
Chairman Shuster was following the pilot program, which includes creative
ways of tracking VMT while providing privacy. She said that we may see
lessons learned implemented in future transportation bills.
Director Lubow wondered if any further funding for the Northwest Area
Mobility Study (NAMS) Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) were washed out. Jared
Fleisher said that Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery
(TIGER) grants were challenging for RTD since the FTA has funded so much
through the New Starts program that the FTA feels they need to spread the
wealth. He pointed out that the Office of the Secretary of Transportation is
very cognizant of the amounts granted to RTD and Denver. Kevin O’Neill
added that RTD has picked every pocket available. He noted that the

staffing review process includes reviewing the projects and a degree of
politics. Director Lubow wondered if the situation would then be doom and
gloom for the small grant applications. Jared Fleisher replied that planning
projects have a better outlook than capital projects under TIGER grants.
Director Lubow expressed that she represents the Northwest area which has
no funding. North Metro and the Central Corridor are depending on future
funding as well. She asked the Squire Patton Boggs team to address the
FasTracks areas lacking funding. Kevin O’Neill replied that FasTracks has
succeeded because it has a commitment with realism. He said that every
success is a new opportunity to partner with the Federal Government.
Chair Sisk said he was pleased that Squire Patton Boggs was retained for
the next few years.
Chair Sisk agreed with Director Bagley’s two points and added a third:
arterial BRT as part of the conversation towards implementing NAMS.
Chair Sisk wondered how to maximize the Director’s presence during the
APTA Legislative Conference since the House would be on recess. He asked
if it would be necessary for so many Directors to attend. He said that this
could be discussed offline sooner rather than later as the timeline for
reservations was approaching. Kevin O’Neill suggested maybe planning a
trip while the full Congress is in session.
Director Daly noted that former Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood was
on 60 Minutes demonstrating infrastructure failures. Director Daly
wondered if Secretary LaHood had any traction with Congress anymore.
Kevin O’Neill replied that many have criticized Secretary LaHood for not
speaking when he had the President’s attention and speaking now on tax
increases when he is no longer the Secretary of Transportation. Kevin
O’Neill said that he now has different interests as he has people paying him
to promote an increase in funding for infrastructure.
Director James said that it was great to have the all-stars of the Squire
Patton Boggs on our team. He noted that funding is not so much about
RTD’s relationship with Congress but with the voters. If RTD gets
something done the voters will notice. Kevin O’Neill added that the new
Congress will be very inexperienced and controlled by the opposing party of
the White House. He noted that infrastructure is not political in nature thus
providing an opportunity to work together.
Director Hoy said that it was good to hear that the Federal Government has
never failed to pay a Full Funding Grant Agreement. He asked about the
$15 million IOU received about 2 years ago from the Federal Government in

conjunction with a $135 million check. He wondered if RTD would ever see
the $15 million. Kevin O’Neill said that RTD will see the money. The Full
Funding Grant Agreements are paid over a period of time, usually five years
with maybe a sixth year for the overage. Squire Patton Boggs will keep
pressing for early funding.

D. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 6, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at 7:02
p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

