Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, January 12, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:21 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:21 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:21 PM
4:55 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Absent

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:29 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:29 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:28 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:24 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:27 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

4:56 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:29 PM

Director Francone was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Carolyn
Conover, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Terry Emmons,
Steve Gieske, David Genova, Lou Ha, Kim Heldman, Robbie Hunter,
Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara
McManus, Andrew Merlino, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill
Weidenaar

Others Present:

Brad Buchanan, Sarah Camacho, Bar Chadwick, Dre Chiriboga-Flor,
John Desmond, David Gaspers, Eugene Howard, Pedro Ramos,
Rebecca Tate, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Jason Whitlock

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Contract for Investment Advisor Services
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a one year contract plus four one year
optional extensions to Public Trust Advisors (PTA) to perform RTD’s
investment advisor services. The new contract would begin March 1, 2016
with a cost of up to $175,000 for the first year depending on the assets
under management during the year. The cost of the optional years is also
dependent on the assets under management at that time. The cost for all
four option years is anticipated to be approximately $800,000, if executed.
Total cost for five years is anticipated to be $975,000.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 19, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, asked Brenden
Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, to review
what RTD’s investment services cover and the process
followed to select a firm.
Brenden Morgan noted that RTD has utilized the services of
Public Finance Management (PFM) for the past five years.

PFM provided advice in regards to investment of RTD’s
operating funds and bond proceeds. He explained that typical
investments include US Treasuries, Corporate Bonds,
Municipal Bonds, etc. as outlined by RTD’s Investment Policy.
He said with the end of PFM’s contract approaching, staff
issued a Request for Proposals (RFPs) in November of 2015.
RTD received 11 proposals in total. Through the evaluation
process it was narrowed down to two top candidates: Public
Finance Management (PFM) and Public Trust Advisors (PTA).
He explained that these firms were ranked equally so RTD
issued a best and final offer to ensure the best possible pricing
was obtained. It was determined that PTA had the best
overall proposal.
Brenden Morgan stated that funding for the first year of this
contract was included in the 2016 Budget. Funding for the
four option years would need to be appropriated in future RTD
budgets.
Director Archuleta inquired how much RTD made from
investments in 2015. He also wondered how much RTD pays
for management of these investments. Brenden Morgan
stated that 2015’s report would be available next month. He
said in 2016 RTD expects to earn about $1.5 million. He
stated that RTD would pay up to $175,000 for investment
advisor services in 2016. He explained that the way the
contract is structured is that RTD pays three and a half
hundredths of a percent of any assets under PTA’s
management. Director Archuleta expressed his surprise that
staff would ask the Board to approve a recommendation when
they could not tell the Board how much RTD made last year.
Director Bagley shared that PFM recently made a presentation
to the Denver Union Station Project Authority Board, which he
was very impressed by. He asked if his understanding that
the two proposals were fairly similar in scope and technical
ability was correct and that the request for a best and final
offer brought the decision down to a matter of cost. Brenden
Morgan said that was generally correct. The Review
Committee looked at the proposals without having access to
the cost information; the Committee just rated the proposals
based on their technical merit. Once Procurement calculated
the scores to include cost, Public Finance Management and
Public Trust Advisors were tied. Brenden Morgan explained
that the request for a best and final offer was a way for the

firms to move their proposals one way or the other in the
ranking.
Director Sisk noted that he had some of the same concerns
raised by Director Archuleta. He requested that staff provide
the Board with background as to who comprises the PTA and
PFM teams and about the firms as a whole.
Director Anderson pointed out that there are certain
requirements as to how public monies are invested in the
State of Colorado. She wondered if PTA complies with those
requirements. Brenden Morgan confirmed that RTD is
restricted by State Statute and further restricted by the RTD
Investment Policy as to how our funds can be invested. He
said that PTA is very familiar with the Colorado State Statutes
as they are based in Colorado and operate the largest
government investment pool in the State.
Director Anderson asked if she was correct in remembering
that the Investment Policy was recently approved by the
Board. Brenden Morgan stated that the Board approved the
Policy in November of 2015.
Director Deadwyler inquired if her understanding that there
was not a company managing RTD’s investments last year
was correct. Brenden Morgan stated that Public Finance
Management (PFM) is the company RTD has utilized for the
past 5 years. Director Deadwyler asked what the projected
earnings were for 2015 and how much RTD paid PFM.
Brenden Morgan said that the budget projected close to $1
million in earnings and RTD paid PFM approximately
$300,000.
Director Lasater commented that while staff may not have the
earnings for 2015, the projected versus actuals for the prior
four years should be available. He asked staff to provide this
information prior to the Board Meeting.
Heather Copp pointed out that the amount paid to the
investment advisor was not related to earnings but related to
the value of the assets managed by the firm.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that it is important to
remember that the firm is not helping RTD invest in stocks or

mutual funds; these are very low-risk and low-interest rate
investments.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, stated that it is important to note
that many times the interest RTD is allowed to earn is capped.
She explained that it is a very complicated set of investments
to ensure we meet arbitrage regulations.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 3]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater
ABSENT:
Tina Francone
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• November 2015 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, noted that the November Monthly Financial
Status Report was included in the January 12, 2015 Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet.
Doug MacLeod reminded the Board that in October, sales and use tax was
5% under budget; however, in November it was 3% over budget. He
explained that in doing some checking with the Department of Revenue staff
learned that there was a timing issue with some of the reporting that lead to
the variances. He stated that year-to-date sales and use tax was 0.8%
under budget. Doug MacLeod pointed out that ridership continues to be
under budget, which is following the same trend that staff has seen for
around the last 6 months. He said that even through ridership was down
fare revenue improved for the month of November.
Director Bagley inquired if staff had any anecdotal information that might
give them a perspective as to how the revenue shortfall to budget might be
at the end of the year. Heather Copp stated that staff is hoping December
will hold its own or be slightly better. She said if we can end the year
around $5 million under budget we will be in good shape. Staff has been
planning to accommodate a $5-10 million shortfall. She commented that
staff would continue to present the estimated impact of fare revenue and
sales and use tax shortfalls to the budget as there was already concern for
2016.

Director Lubow said she surmises that ridership is going down because gas
prices are so low so more people are driving. She noted this might continue
indefinitely. She wonders how staff takes this into account. Heather Copp
stated that there is an indirect correlation between gas prices and ridership;
however, in 2016 it will be hard to isolate the factors that are impacting
ridership with gas prices being low, the fare increase and opening of all of
RTD’s new services at the same time. She said with more choices of where
to travel there may be an increase in ridership even with lower gas prices.

• Smart Card Project Update
Heather Copp reminded the Board that the public Smart Card pilot program
went live on January 1st, along with many other initiatives. She asked Kim
Heldman, Senior Manager of Information Technology, to provide the Board
with an update.
Kim Heldman began by recognizing what a tremendous team effort
everything had been. She thanked all of the people who worked tirelessly
over the holidays to make this a success. She shared that Day Pass printers
have been installed and are operational on all fixed-route buses. Kim
Heldman noted that RTD sent out 1,000 vouches for Smart Cards and
through Sunday, January 10, 265 Smart Cards had been issued at RTD
Sales Outlets. The programing for the new fare structure across the entire
system went live on January 1. Additionally, new platform validator layouts
and stickers were updated to address recommendations made by the
National Federation of the Blind of Colorado. Finally, the real-time data feed
for third party developers went live over the New Year’s weekend.
Director Archuleta shared that he heard some drivers were putting bags over
their fare/ticketing machines and letting people ride for free. Kim Heldman
said she believes this was related to a handful of issues in the validators for
the Smart Cards. She reiterated that this was not system wide and had no
impact on revenue.
Director Archuleta asked how the new printers were working. Kim Heldman
explained that there had been some issues as well, but again, it was not a
widespread issue. The issues were very typical of a project of this size and
magnitude.
Director Walker shared that he rode the bus almost every day the previous
week and noticed everything moving very smoothly. He said there were
some stalls when people were trying to figure out what to do but overall it
was a very seamless transition.
Interim General Manager Genova thanked the staff that worked on all of
RTD’s changes over the holidays as there were many people involved.

D. Other Matters
Heather Copp asked Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, to
speak to the Board about the driver shortage issue and its impact on service.
Bruce Abel noted that, as has been discussed for several months, RTD has been
experiencing some very meaningful labor shortages for both fixed route and
paratransit operators. He reminded the Board that staff continually tracks the hours
of lost service. RTD provides approximately 10K hours of service on an average
weekday. Through the first six months of 2015 we were averaging between 7 and
14 hours of lost service per month. Bruce Abel pointed out that this is a
percentage so small Excel cannot even calculate it. However, beginning in
June/July RTD began to see operator shortages manifesting themselves in a slight
increase in lost service hours. At this time staff began to have conversations
about things like signing bonuses and other retention strategies.
Bruce Abel explained that the hours of lost service grew to 150 hours in October
and 500 in November, meaning that Excel could now calculate the percentage of
hours of service lost at two tenths of one percent. He commented that while this
is a very small percentage it is still not acceptable.
Bruce Abel reiterated that steps have been taken to increase RTD’s recruitment
efforts; however, it is also a retention issue. He said that steps have also been
taken to address issues such as less desirable shifts. Finally, in addition to
recruitment and retention issues, there is also the issue of the legalization of
marijuana. He said that anecdotally he can tell the Board that when 10 people are
given tentative offers of employment only 3 will get hired. He stated that with the
improving economy recruitment will continue to be a struggle but staff is pulling out
all the stops.
Bruce Abel recognized that there have been questions as to the process staff
follows when dropping a run. He explained that dispatch will first look to find
routes that have the highest service frequencies. Also, staff continues to try and
find another operator so that perhaps only one hour of service is lost on an eight
hour run.
Director Menten commented that while the percentage of lost service hours may be
small, to the passenger that does not get picked up it is a big deal. She inquired
how many people will become long term employees out of every 20 that complete
training. Bruce Abel stated that in reviewing separations between July and
September, over half of those leaving had been employees for less than a year. He
explained that getting operators to stay past the first year was one of the things
staff was trying to address through deferred signing bonuses, incentives for split
shifts, etc.

Director Menten asked how many additional operators RTD needed to ensure we
did not have any dropped runs. Bruce Abel stated we would need about 6 classes
of 20 trainees to get back to where staff wanted to be based on current attrition
rates.
Director Menten wondered about the maximum number of trainees that could be in
one class. Bruce Abel said the current maximum was 20; however, if staff had 40
people ready to start training they would find a way to train them all.
Director Lubow asked how RTD could better communicate with our riders if their
route was dropped. Bruce Abel explained that using our current Rider Alert system
was a challenge as Rider Alerts would go to all riders of the route; however, since
staff continues to try and fill dropped runs, a route that is dropped at 5:00 a.m.
may have a driver for the 6:00 a.m. trip. Director Lubow asked staff to think about
how we could improve the alert process because if a person is waiting for a bus
that does not show up it is really a bummer.
Director Lubow said she heard from a constituent that Longmont is last on the list
for replacement drivers if a route is dropped because Longmont is not a highly
dense area. Bruce Abel stated that he cannot say that is accurate but knows that
Longmont is not having an issue with lost hours of service as is being experienced
in other parts of the District.
Director Hoy informed the Board that he was recently speaking with Director
Francone, who was unable to attend this evening, about Route 77. He said that
she feels this is a route that is continually dropped and is very concerned about it.
Gina Callahan, Acting Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, stated
that dispatch does not want it to appear that any route is being picked on;
however, after evaluating the frequency of service, the route that has the longest
service hours is the route that gets filled first. For example, if one dropped route is
only one hour and another is four, dispatch will try to fill the four hour route first.
She explained that this can make it seem as if one route is being affected more
than other routes, such as Route 77. When a trend develops staff will focus their
efforts on that route to address the issue but it is really a juggling act.
Director Solano noted that in the telecom arena, which is where he comes from,
there was a group of technicians on pager duty in case another technician called in
sick or did not show up. He wondered if staff had considered something similar.
Bruce Abel explained that RTD did have extra operators come in to be “on call” but
unfortunately due to the labor shortage the labor pool is still not large enough to
cover all of the needs. He stated that the issues had more to do with the number
of operators as opposed to the processes. Director Solano thinks there is a way
that all the dropped routes can be covered.

Committee Chair Tobiassen believes the real time bus data can be very helpful if a
run is dropped as the passenger can see when the next bus will be arriving to make
the appropriate decision about what to do next. Bruce Abel noted that there are
still issues with the real time data if a run is dropped as it will just display the
scheduled route time; however, this is something that Bus Operations will work
with IT and Communications to see what can be done.
Director Bagley shared that, as the Board is probably aware, he has been serving on
the Denver Union Station Project Authority along with Marla Lien on behalf of RTD.
He said he wanted to report on some really outstanding figures he just received. In
2009 CBRE, a commercial real estate firm, made projections during the height of
the recent recession as to what kind of revenues would come forth for sales and
use tax collections as well as property taxes. He stated that property tax
collections are pledged at approximately $12.1 million or 274% over the 2009
projections for 2016. Additionally, sales and use tax collections were 617%
greater than the 2009 projections. He thinks these are fantastic numbers and
noted that there are estimates that some of the loans could be paid by 2026, which
is 15 years earlier than first thought.
Director Folska asked Director Bagley to email a copy of the statistics to the Board.
He said he would have staff send the information.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 9, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:29 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

