2024-03-12
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening, and welcome to the Tuesday, March 12th Finance and Planning
Committee meeting at the RTD. The meeting will now come to order, and we are convened as of 5:30 PM
Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone who is attending this meeting to mute yourself,
unless you are recognized to speak. It will give us a much clearer record that way.
I want to thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors will for the time being continue to be held remotely via Zoom, and they will be audio
and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of these meetings, will be
posted as soon as practicable on the RTD Board website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing what is called communication access real time translation.
That's also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the
RTD Board Office at RTD.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided to you for the CART.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish.
And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD' YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll
for the committee members. Director Bob Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director JoyAnn Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: And Vice Chair Michael Guzman. I think-- Oh, he-- you unmuted for that. All right. I no
he is traveling. And I am the Chair, Doug Tisdale. And for the record, I will note that we also have

Directors Jamie Lewis, Troy Whitmore, Board Chair Eric Davidson. And I think that's all. Are there any
Directors that I have missed?

MARJORIE SLOAN: This is Director Sloan. I'm here as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Sloan. Marjorie Sloan is with us. All right. I would now
like to open our public comment session. This is available to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic that is listed in our published meeting agenda, either for this current month
or for the immediately preceding month.
And I'm sorry. There we go. Thank you for going on mute. If you wish to speak, and you haven't already
done this, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your smartphone. And we'll be able to
recognize you that way.
Now, during this time, the public comment time, the committee will not be offering any direct comments or
responses to anything that is said. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public
comment, once again, please email the Board Office at the email address I read earlier, which I will now
repeat. rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Now, I'd like to ask staff if there are any hands that are raised or if anyone has indicated on their phone
that they would like to speak at this time.
JACK KROLL: Hi, Chair Tisdale. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time,
we have no one present who has indicated a desire to share public comment.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you, and while we have your attention, may have you confirm whether
or not we have received any written communications through email or otherwise for people who wanted to
make a statement in the public comment session?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Tisdale. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office again.
While we received some public comment for tomorrow night's Operations and Safety Committee meeting,
we have not received any public comment for this evening's meeting via email or other form of
correspondence. We have circulated the public comment for tomorrow's meeting already to the Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. It reminds me of service on condominium HOA
boards. If nobody wants to speak in public comment, you must be doing something right. So we
appreciate that. With no participants in the queue, we will now close the public comment period for this
meeting of the Finance and Planning Committee.
And then next-- oh, here we are. The next item on our agenda is to receive information from external
entities. We make this available if there are other entities, government agencies and otherwise, who
would like to address us. I am informed that we have no information from any external entities to be
presented to us this month. Let me just ask Mr. Kroll if you would confirm that, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes, that is correct, Committee Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. Then we turn to the next item on our agenda, a very
important matter that will take some time. And you have seen the written materials in the committee

packet. And this is an update from our revenue diversification working group. This presentation will be
brought to us by our Board Chair, Erik Davidson and others whom he will invite for comment during that
time. So Board Chair, I turn it over to you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. Very much appreciated. Thank you members of
the committee and the Board who are here this evening. I look forward to presenting this item.
I am prepared. I can share my screen. However, I do want to confirm with the Board Office, do you have
a version, Mr. Kroll, that you are planning to share for this? If not, I can go ahead and share what I believe
to be the final presentation.
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, I don't have one at the ready, but I can easily get one if that would be your
preference. What I would do is simply download the packet and share what was included in the packet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'll go ahead and share a PowerPoint screen, and if you could just let me know if that
appears, that would be great. Give me one moment.
JACK KROLL: We can see it on the screen.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Is this showing up properly in presentation mode?
JACK KROLL: Sure is.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you, everybody. I'm going to take us
through this presentation. Also note that a number of members of the revenue diversification working
group from staff are present. And so, I'll present this, and then we will take questions. And I certainly
invite, at the end of my presentation, any input from members of the working group prior to taking any
questions should I miss any salient points here.
So what I'll walk through in this presentation is just a brief reminder of the revenue diversification working
group, what it is, then we'll move into a discussion around RTD's funding profile, which is something the
working group has been discussing. I'll also then touch on the mid and long term financial outlook of RTD.
I will talk about TABOR impact and mitigation research, as well as some next steps.
So I'll step through each of those sections. So first of all, as we all recall, the revenue diversification
working group came out of a discussion regarding an important policy priority of this Board at the 2023
Board retreat. During that retreat, the Board highlighted the risk that the agency faces by being
predominantly dependent on a single source of revenue.
We had identified, as a policy priority, that we would like to develop a diverse set of external subsidies
that could provide some stability, ensure that we are diversified and not dependent on a single source,
increase the probability that if one revenue stream were to decline, that we have what I have often used
the words of our Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod, a backstop to the decline in revenue and look at
what external subsidies might be available to us. The idea was to investigate what is possible, and so I'll
be talking a little bit about what's been looked at, what's been discussed.
I think just to get to the conclusion and let everyone know, I think I've mentioned before-- the conclusion is
largely there's not much we can do inside of our four walls that is material. We need to engage with voters
as well as with policymakers, the state legislature, and cities and counties to explore opportunities. So as
we'll be seeing later in the presentation, a lot of what we've been dialoguing about is how to take the facts

and information we've learned and communicate them in a constructive outward fashion to seek
assistance in this area.
But out of this policy discussion that we had at that Board retreat or that policy priority, we formed the
financial diversification-- I'm sorry-- the revenue diversification working group to make informed decisions
or recommendations to the Board, rather, regarding opportunities for revenue diversification, fiscal policy
enhancements, and other financial measures to support the long term fiscal sustainability of RTD. The
working group is largely comprised of staff. This is staff-led by a working group participant, which is our
General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson.
The working group also includes Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, Melanie Snyder, our
General Counsel, Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, Brenden Morgan, our Senior
Manager of Debt and Investments, and more recently, Stuart Summers, our Chief Communications and
Engagement Officer. I have served as a liaison from the Board attending these meetings and participating
in them and have been joined by our previous Chair, Lynn Guissinger, who had stayed very close to this
throughout 2023 while she served as Chair.
Some of the tasks completed-- most are on the slide here. There are a few things that I'll also touch upon
that are not on the slide. But we examined finances and efficiencies and stayed anchored in the RTD's
Reimagine plan. You'll see a later reference to the Mobility Plan For the Future. We had done some
financial projections and also had created our System Optimization Plan. Those plans were our guide in
terms of our financial projections.
We considered fund balance policies linked to mitigating revenue volatility. I'll let our Chief Financial
Officer Doug MacLeod answer questions along these lines, but I thank the Chair of this committee, Doug
Tisdale, for ensuring that the work plan does include discussion around fiscal policies, which I do believe
some of our 2025 considerations will be shaped by some of what's been learned by the revenue
diversification working group, particularly around TABOR impact mitigation.
We've investigated alternatives, creating a new enterprise for fares. We'll touch on that when we talk
about TABOR and a variety of areas around TABOR regarding accounting processes, looking at various
deductions, historical TABOR calculations, to really understand what impact TABOR may have on this
agency, which we'll touch upon. And we investigated some accounting opportunities and allocations
between the Base System and FasTracks.
Not on this slide-- the revenue diversification working group also compiled historical information. There's
no new ideas under the sun. Our General Counsel Snyder led the effort on that and compiled information
around previous efforts that Boards of Directors in the past at RTD have taken and staff has taken in
looking at revenue diversification opportunities. There were a number of efforts in the past that just further
informed some of our conclusions that what we really need to do is get a common set of facts wellcommunicated out to stakeholders in the region and communicate out what's at stake with respect to
transit to encourage other investments and sort of reinforced our ideas. There's not a lot we can look at
here.
Another thing that we did that you'll be seeing here is looking at our funding profile and some
benchmarking in terms of where we fit in terms of transit investments across the United States. And that's
actually where I want to start in terms of presenting some of what was discussed at the working group for
the past couple of months in particular, which is our funding profile.

I think this slide-- this is-- we all know this, are very familiar with this, but I do think it's very worth touching
upon, and this is going to be an area that we want to ensure that we well communicate out to the public
how RTD is funded and how transit can be funded generally. When we look at the primary categories of
funding for US transit agencies and specifically, those that are reported to the National Transit Database,
there are a couple of large categories. One is fare collection. Two is taxes and fees directly levied by the
Transit agency. This is a model by which the taxpayer directly pays taxes to the Transit agency. That is
very much where RTD is and who we are.
There is also a third bucket, which can be local funding from municipalities and counties. There is a fourth
bucket, which is state funding, which can come from the form of a general fund, or it can come from a
dedicated transportation fund. And then, of course, as we are all aware and as a substantial portion of our
budgeted revenues, there are federal funding operating grants.
In terms of the local, state, and directly levied by the Transit agency taxes and fees that can be collected,
there are many. One of the most common is sales and use tax, which certainly is our primary funding
mechanism, and it's true for many other agencies as well. But there are other categories. As we
mentioned the state funds, but there are many things such as vehicle registration fees, payroll taxes,
lottery revenue, vehicle leasing fees, gas tax, tolls, vehicle rental fees, parking fees, property tax, real
estate taxes and fees, and a whole long list of many other things that are used.
It can get a little bit tricky to look at how those are utilized across multiple transit agencies. It's very easy
to do analysis on the National Transit Database and pull data from a category on the left standpoint-- how
much comes from the state, how much comes locally, how much goes directly to the Transit agency from
taxpayers. It's much harder to delve into what the source of those funds are without going directly into
each of those agencies, which we did for some of the agencies that are-- I hesitate after all this
examination to call anyone quite peer-- but certainly similar agencies that we have common modalities,
service areas, ridership, and budget-- did some looking at that.
I think what's important to note, as I alluded to on the previous slide, we are squarely in the directly
funded by the taxpayer category. That is coming to us in the form of sales and use tax. That's 69% or
approximately 70% of our 2024 budget. We'll talk about our midterm financial plan in a moment. And then
we have a substantial portion from operating grants from the Federal government. And then, of course,
we do have a component that's fares.
I think what's notable here is what's absent from this slide. There is no direct state funding. Sales and use
tax sometimes does go through a transportation fund at the state level and is a state-levied tax. That's not
the case for RTD. Ours comes directly to us, and the state ultimately accounts for, I believe, 1% or less of
our budgeted revenues-- a similar order of magnitude for cities or municipalities and counties. This is an
important piece I know we are all very familiar with, but needs to be well communicated out to our
policymakers in the state and that the city and county level, as well as among taxpayers.
As we're very familiar with, we collect a 1% sales and use tax. On the midterm financial plan, just as a
reminder of looking out at a six-year horizon, it is 75% of our revenue, so greater than what we have
budgeted in 2024. We are dependent on that single source that comes with the challenges we're familiar
with, that it is subject to consumer spending volatility and economic trends.
It's also worth noting that our base system, which makes up a large portion of that orange slice of the pie,
will soon be subject to TABOR. We'll talk about that at the end of the presentation. And also, this lack of
diversity means that there's really no backstop or no floor, that essentially any shock to the system can

almost immediately, or certainly after a very brief lag, impact our ability to deliver service, which this
agency has experienced in its past as we are all familiar.
I wanted to touch on this. This is an area I'm very happy to go deeper with Directors that have specific
questions or would like to look at some of the data from the National Transit Database, as well as other
budgets. We had some conversations around how to benchmark RTD against other transit agencies to
understand where we fit and also how we might communicate with policymakers. There were some
interesting metrics that we looked at to compare ourselves-- revenue per unlinked passenger trip, which
is essentially revenue per rider, revenue per vehicle revenue miles, operating expenses per rider or
unlinked passenger trip, operating expenses per revenue miles.
These were interesting. Largely, I would categorize these somewhat as efficiency metrics to let you know
how much slack you may have in the system, how efficiently that you're operating from a financial
standpoint. What we found is obviously quite difficult to do a complete apples-to-apples comparison here
because different transit agencies have widely different service areas and different transit modalities that
dramatically affect your revenue and your operating expenses on a rider basis and on a square-mile
basis.
But what we found, just to draw a conclusion on this is, for example, our operating expenses per rider is
$10.84. We fit in a pretty good zone of if you pick out peer agencies, we're on comparable footing in terms
of how efficient we are and what we're spending on a rider basis and what we're spending on a vehicle
revenue mile basis as well.
One of the interesting things we started to look at with benchmarking that I want to touch on is what our
funding looks like on a square-mile basis, as well as on a per capita basis. This is very, very difficult,
again, to do an apples-to-apples comparison because as our General Manager has said before, and I like
this phrasing, when you've seen one transit agency, you've seen one transit agency, or also difficult to
compare apples to fish.
We have a very large service area with very different land use than many of our peers. We cover
essentially all of the modalities of travel. It makes comparison difficult, but comparison at the extremes, I
think, can be somewhat useful to gain an idea of what overall transit investment in a region look like. So
we have built out some tables based on the National Transit Database to capture funding levels. I want to
just touch on a few things here. We have just that little diagram of the apple and the fish up there just to
remind ourselves that we are kind of comparing apples to fish. While they're all transit agencies, very
different capital models, very different operating models, very different investments.
But some extremes really do start to jump out. RTD is funded at a level of $372 per capita. That per
capita is using the UZA or urbanized area population. So it's important to recognize this is not necessarily
using a calculation of all of the region that's encompassed or all the population. It is using that primary
UZA number. The reason for doing that is that's what's reported to the National Transit Database, so it
allows us to normalize and directly compare ourselves to other agencies.
What I would note here is that we're about 19th on the list in terms of transit agencies. There's quite a few
major transit agencies ahead of us in terms of how they are funded on a per capita basis. Now again, that
can be a little bit deceiving when you're doing these comparisons, but the extremes are useful. If you
compare that to Seattle, for example, there are multiple transit agencies serving different modalities
across the Seattle area.

And also different land use patterns. So if you look at Snohomish County, for example, which has
community transit, that addresses a relatively smaller area and it's very purpose-built for what it serves.
King County Metro serves in Seattle. Sound Transit runs across the system in a regional way. If you were
to add together the collective investment in Seattle, you'd find that over $1,000 per capita is going into
transit. So while it's tempting to compare us to say, King County Metro or Sound Transit, you're really
looking at what's the holistic regional investment.
I think what personally jumps out to me is Colorado has tremendous opportunities as it grows and
matures. If it wants a transit future, to be considering what a holistic region-wide investment in transit
should look like looking at areas like Seattle. Seattle certainly is not alone. If you look at the New York
Metro area, the Chicago area, many areas within California from LA to San Francisco, you find a similar
dynamic where you have multiple transit agencies serving the same primary urbanized area and
collectively, have pretty sizable investments in transit.
SEPTA is in Philadelphia. That's an interesting one to look at because they're in a similar area on the list
as us in terms of per capita funding. They have some similar modalities-- actually some common
elements of the service area as well. But you'll notice that the funding per square mile is quite a bit
different. And what that does, again, looking at the extremes is what's important here. That really calls out
the difference in land use patterns, that they have a very high density development pattern inside
Philadelphia proper and then moving out from there.
I think it's also notable that the southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority is facing a pretty
sizable shortfall in their budget that is threatening both fare increases and sizable service reductions.
Fortunately, they're having a great partnership and engagement with their state right now with the
governor and with their state legislature. I think it's reasonable to expect Pennsylvania will probably act
and bolster investment in SEPTA to prevent some of those service reductions. I certainly don't want to
speculate, but a number of agencies are having those discussions as they face very immediate shortfalls,
which we're fortunate not to be in.
So I find that interesting that as we look at some of the areas with lower per capita investment we do see
some of those struggles that, I think, are exceptional that RTD does not currently have. So that's just a
brief touch on some of the types of benchmarking discussions we had and things that, ultimately, I think,
can start to inform talking points as we engage with the region to help level set everybody when-- I've
frequently come across people making comparisons to other areas. I think it's useful to be able to come
back to, well, what are those areas investing, and how do we want to look at what Colorado might do
moving forward?
So with that, I'll move on and just also highlight we looked at what the state share of funding is. As I
mentioned, that's such a small part of our budget, and we notice it's a sizable portion of budget in
agencies that have high levels of investment in transit on a per capita basis. We are 44th in the nation in
terms of the state share of funds for transit. I want to be a little cautious and specific here that this can
also be somewhat deceiving because remember, we directly levy taxes on the taxpayer.
Some agencies, nothing is being levied to the taxpayer. They may be getting sales and use tax, which is
fundamentally, our same mechanism, but it may be going through a transportation fund coming from the
state. But again, the extremes are very useful here and interesting. You can see out to the left, states that
have a large portion of investment going into transit and also, of course, the importance of having that
funding coming from the state. You create an opportunity to have a backstop that folks further out on the
right don't really have the luxury of having, which is very much the situation that we are in.

I want to touch upon our mid-term and long-term outlook. I know many of us are familiar with this, but as I
said, we're going to be focusing on some communications. So you'll start to see some themes in here of
what I believe we need to be communicating out to stakeholders. So I think it's important that RTD is not
facing near-term problems. This is, again, quite exceptional.
We did spend some time-- Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, spent some time
briefing the working group at one of our meetings on some of the situation for other transit agencies from
Bart in San Francisco, New Jersey Transit in New Jersey, SEPTA, et cetera, and the fiscal cliffs that
they're facing. We're very fortunate that we're not in that position particularly after the work that this Board
and this leadership team with Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Morgan, with creative
investment opportunities, we've been able to shore up that mid-term financial plan that's unique for us.
But our long-term plan doesn't look so good. We remain susceptible to revenue volatility. As we know, we
have a great deal of deferred maintenance. We still face a competitive labor market, supply chain issues,
and uncertainty in inflation. So our near-term stability is very good, but our long-term is much more
challenged.
If we take a look back at the mid-term financial plan that this Board adopted, as we would recall, our net
cash flow is positive in the most immediate years we have visibility to. But we do start to see a trend
towards negative cash flow that we need to be paying attention to sooner rather than later. And that's
because if we look back to the Mobility Plan for the future, this is something that the revenue
diversification working group started to look back on here. We had a lot of work done with our Finance
team and our consultants when we went through the Reimagine process. We spent good time and good
money getting our crystal balls out and trying to forecast how things will play out.
Of course, no one can quite know what things are going to look like in 2042, but again, extremes are
helpful here. We had felt pretty confident during that effort of Reimagine that there is going to be a
shortfall. It's important to note that shortfall happens in the existence of current plans. This is the current
service level. This is not new service. This is not adding additional service. This is if we continue to
operate at about the level we are now, how our financial picture will look with that dotted line being our
projected revenue, the bars behind it being our costs.
And this is where we have this long-term threat to say, we will face a shortfall, and the key question is,
how might this impact service delivery? And I think this is ultimately where it's incumbent to say not just a
revenue diversification standpoint of mitigating that risk, but we also need to be seeking additional
investment in transit. Shame on us if we don't communicate this out when the lever and the fulcrum are in
the optimal position where small investments now can compound into big success later and covering
RTD.
Likewise, not acting now or acting in the negative now will compound into even more significant shortfalls.
So we have a luxury many other transit agencies did not have, which is that we can dialogue now around
adding investment and adding diverse investment to do this. So I'll come back to that when we talk about
communication strategies, as I think we are going to have to engage with policymakers and voters.
I want to pivot now and talk about TABOR because this is one of our most immediate concerns that
again, those short-term moves upward that could compound into success. Short-term impacts downward
will compound into really exacerbating those shortfalls. That's absolutely the case with TABOR. I won't go
through everything on this slide. I think the highlight we're all very familiar here, I think everybody's
familiar with the Taxpayer Bill of Rights and what implications it has for us.

I think just what's important to note is that in 1999, voters exempted RTD's base system. Of course, at the
time, that was just RTD-- this was pre FasTrack-- for the purposes of paying off debt incurred to finance
the construction of our Southeast and Southwest light rail lines and to operate them. This was to expire.
We could go no later on this TABOR exemption than December 31, 2026. Those bonds will be repaid in
November 2024, which means it is at that time, November of this year, that the TABOR exemption on the
Base system will expire.
Now similarly, on FasTracks, voters authorized to increase our 0.6% to our 1%, and that is exempt from
TABOR for the same reasons until FasTracks bond repayment, which comes in 2050. So the TABOR
impact we're looking at is strictly on the Base. This is because of the 1999 vote that essentially de-Bruced
us and expires with the repayment of debt this year in 2024.
I thought it would be useful-- I've looked around there that the revenue diversification working group has
been looking for simple ways to visualize and just communicate out TABOR. There's plenty of great
documents, but this is just a simple image to highlight the TABOR impacts that we're talking about. I think
as we're all familiar, the yellow line is what we would have as a TABOR limit. This would be the cap on
the revenues that we are allowed to collect as set formulaically.
Something that often gets talked about but is often not well-visualized or understood, I think, is the ratchet
effect. This is potentially one of the scariest things for us at RTD because of that outward shortfall, which
is that if we have a recession or a down year, that resets the formula, and the ceiling, ultimately, still
grows at the same formula. So that whole yellow line can snap down and stay down and then have to
grow slowly.
I think many of you will recall, this was a major issue out of the 2008 recession, and voters had actually
passed a referendum to give a break, essentially, to prevent the ratchet effect from truly decimating any
number of public entities. This is a very real thing we need to be thinking about. When we know that we
have long-term potential shortfalls, the idea of having a TABOR surplus that we refund is scary, but it's
even scarier to have that known unknown, which is how that might snap down permanently.
Our costs will go nowhere. Those bars on that mid-term financial-- I'm sorry-- the Mobility Plan for the
future projections that revenue can only really come down, which should concern us all. In terms of what's
subject to TABOR, there was some nuance to this. Although it is to Base, there were some additional
considerations that needed to be done. I'm happy, if people have questions, Doug MacLeod is here and
had done some research on this as well as General Counsel Snyder. Approximately half or $600 million
of our revenues will be subject to TABOR in 2025. I think the exact number that we had in one of the
models, which, of course, will shift as our financial situation does, was $633 million.
This includes virtually all revenue except for the 0.4% tax and federal funding. Again, that ratchet down
impact could affect us. It's very difficult to deal in the hypotheticals, but one thing that the revenue
diversification team on staff did was reach out to other entities that have dealt with TABOR impacts-Jefferson County, El Paso County are two that RTD did engage in conversations with. We've also had
conversations with CE Leeds and are working to understand what the impact may be.
From what we understand so far, the best of our knowledge, it may be somewhere in the 7% to 10%
impact range. That's the cap. So we could be looking at refunding between 7% and 10% of our revenues.
Again, a little difficult in the hypothetical. Happy to answer some questions in what the certainty levels on
that are, what could influence that. But we're talking a lot of money here. If you do the math on the upper

end, we could be looking at $60 million. Again, that will change year to year, but this is not like we're
looking at $1 to $2 million impact. We're looking at tens of millions of dollars being at risk.
We did talk about mitigation efforts. There are other public agencies and entities and governments that
have explored options to mitigate the impact. This is something we had talked about at the 2023 Board
retreat. One that has come up very frequently and has been suggested to RTD by other stakeholders and
is one that came up in our Board retreat in 2023 was creating an enterprise fund for our fees. Long story
short around this, this actually has limited benefit. If you think about that, we have about $64 million in the
2024 budget going into fares. And if the impact is about 10%-- and remember, not all of those fares are
subject to TABOR-- on the high end, you might be talking about saving $6.4 million. But that's moving $64
million into an enterprise fund.
There are a variety of things we looked at in terms of the governance of said fund, as well as the limitation
of what can be added to it. There are actually scenarios where this can work against you. So this looked
at this not really being a viable solution for mitigation. Probably not surprising, the Board deciding to
pursue a de-Brucing looks like it would be the best option. There are limited opportunities to exempt
revenue from TABOR. A de-Brucing seeks voter approval, as we're all aware.
There is the potential, and this is something that we need to better understand-- we're a little bit unique in
terms of having TABOR impact in that we are strictly sales and use tax. So this is different than some
other government agencies are looking at. And we're also different in that we provide a service where
there is the possibility to explore non-cash TABOR refunds. We've talked about things like fare reductions
and fare programs. There's quite a bit of consideration that would need to go into this. This is still
something that we would be investigating, but should we be facing TABOR, there is some possibility that
when we look at the refunds that would need to be done, we might be able to explore some non-cash
options.
So just wrap up with some next steps. First of all, the TABOR polling timeline. So the RTD, as we know,
has retained a consultant to conduct polling to determine whether or not it looks viable to approach the
voters and refer a ballot measure to debruce RTD. That polling consultant was selected following a public
solicitation in January. This consultant team did meet with staff and did meet with the revenue
diversification group to get an understanding of our financial outlook of the challenges that are facing and
to start exploring where there could be value propositions in terms of what those shortfalls look like and
how that may impact service. That polling is expected to be completed in March.
I intend to get the Board together in April, which is when polling results will be coming in, and-- I'm sorry-the polling survey will be completed in March. The results will be available in April, which I intend to get
this Board together. What I'm envisioning right now, just to help mitigate impact to our Board meeting is to
schedule a study session, work with the Board Office and you all to do that so that we can look at what
those polling results would say. Not on this timeline would be then we would need to be discussing
potential actions together as a Board in May so that we can be taking action in May or June on referring a
ballot measure.
So those things are to come here. We are taking a look at what that will look like. It's very, very apparent
that this is something the Board needs to be engaged in, looking at, and taking a position on very soon.
Finally, I wanted to touch on, it was very, very apparent that given that we're 44th in the nation for state
funding, given that there's a lot of interest in transit in the state of Colorado, but given that we are a
funding profile that ultimately is stretched quite thin across a very large service area, there's not a lot we

can do to really move the needle on revenue without engaging with the state or voters on additional
investments in transit.
So what we discussed was that it would be very important to communicate to the public and to
policymakers and start be very transparent about our financial position-- how we're doing right now, what
our short-term position is, what our problems are going to be in the future, being certain about those,
being transparent about those, being vulnerable with those, and communicating out some of the things
that we've learned about other transit agencies, about investments, and allows then our public and allow
our policymakers to start shaping a conversation around what do we want the transit future to look like?
So our Communications Lead, Stuart Sommers, started working in with the revenue diversification
working group to gather information of what was being learned and look at some of the things that could
be turned into visuals and has started work on a website.
The first version of this has just been published, but the intent here is it is an initial draft. This is to be
evergreen, that you would just see a skeleton framework right now. Many sections will be built out to
really emphasize what does TABOR mean to us? What does that long-term financial shortfall look like?
What would that shortfall mean to riders, to the customers of RTD?
So this is meant to be an evergreen website. I invite Directors-- I think I mentioned this at the last Finance
and Planning Committee meeting-- to reach out to the revenue diversification working group to please
feel free to work through me and the Board Office to provide suggestions and recommendations of what
to be putting on this website. Where we'll probably first be turning attention on the Communications side
is TABOR. It's very important that we have what the order of magnitude is, what the impact is, and make
sure that is available to people to really just understand what this means.
And then I think it's incumbent upon this Board to take the information that will be putting out and be
communicating with legislators, be communicating with the state. As we discussed at our retreat in 2024,
I am working on some talking points. These are very close to completion with our Government Relations
Officer, Michael Davies, and shaping that around the discussion we had at the retreat of things we'd like
to communicate out. It'll be no surprise that I would like us all to have some talking points around our
financial situation so we can encourage the state to be considering additional investments.
I know this was a long presentation. I thank you all very much for your patience and going through this.
There's a lot that we've learned. I'm happy to go offline with folks to show more of the data and things that
we looked at. I'm happy to answer questions here, and as I said from the beginning, we're joined by our
General Manager and CEO Johnson, of course, and Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod and General
Counsel Snyder and other members of the team that I'm sure could answer questions.
So with that, Mr. Chair, I will hand the floor back to you for questions and discussion. And certainly, I
would invite members of the revenue diversification working group to raise their hand and add anything
and that they would like throughout the course of the discussion as well. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Board Chair. We appreciate the very comprehensive
presentation that the Board has been looking forward to. Before recognizing any of the Directors, let me
ask whether General Manager CEO or any member of the diversification working group would like to add
some comments now before we take questions and comments from the committee.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, our Chair did an excellent job. I have nothing further to add at this time.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And let me turn first then to Director
Dishell. You are recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I apologize for the background noises. I'm in transit. Can you
hear me OK?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir. We can.
BOBBY DISHELL: Fantastic. Chair Davidson, thank you. And to the entire working group, thank you so
much. It's a really great presentation. Really great to see.
One question, one sort of comment that doesn't need to be answered today but would be good to know
how would you evaluate it. The first is, as we're looking at the numbers and the impact of TABOR, are
those numbers inflation-adjusted as you're looking outwards, or in the alternative, have we discounted
those numbers for net present value to evaluate the full impact as we look at service today? Right, so we
could see what that impact would be on today's dollars?
And the second is, we've seen over time, a change in interpretation by the Colorado Supreme Court of
what needs to go to the voters, what is a fee versus what is a tax? And I may have missed it, but you
know, where did we land on that analysis? As we work with our state partners, I think, in either event, we
would need state support, whether it's an appropriation from a general fund or an assessment of a fee.
Do we look at that sort of new interpretation of a fee and whether that would have a material enough
impact such that it makes sense to pursue? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. Some compelling questions there, and I don't
know if Board Chair Davidson has comprehensive responses, but at least he can give us an initial
response now. So you are recognized, Mr. Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you Director Dishell, and thanks Mr. MacLeod,
for raising your hand there. I was going to see if you wanted to add anything on this. I can just
directionally say, I'd like to have Mr. MacLeod address the-- Chief Financial Officer MacLeod address the
matter of the inflation in TABOR. It's a really important and good question. It's part of that ratchet-down
concern.
I'll just briefly touch on the fee item. We did have some discussion around that. I think I would defer to this
is an area that I think is very important for our state to be considering as they consider transit funding and
look at what might be possible. I would invite General Counsel Snyder, if she would like to comment on
the fees or not. There certainly are some limitations of what we can do from an RTD standpoint, but as
the state might contemplate a transportation fund or contributions from a general fund, I do believe there
are opportunities for them to look at fees. But I think it's important for us to work with the state and also
have them be looking at what's possible there.
So again, General Counsel Snyder, no need to respond, but if there's anything you wanted to chime in on
there regarding some of our discussions, please feel free. But with that, I'd happily yield to Mr. MacLeod
on the items that Director Dishell asked about.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And Mr. MacLeod, you are recognized, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale, and thank you Board Chair Davidson for an excellent
presentation. Just to add a little bit to the question posed by Director Dishell regarding inflation. So yes,

those numbers do include inflation. And you may recall within RTD's sales and use tax forecast, those are
inflated as well. So everything that's been demonstrated in the presentation includes an inflationary factor
or a growth factor according to population growth, price forecasted increases based on Moody's
projections, as well as our projections for inflation on the expenditure side.
So that is included. Nothing has been present valued, so you're looking at actual real dollars of what we
currently, with current information, project out what the impact could potentially be to revenue. So the $60
million figure is in today's dollars. $600 million is using the budgeted fare revenue that would be
potentially subject using 2024 potentially subject in 2025 to TABOR ratcheting down. That would grow
over time.
On the fees section or the additional revenue, while that has merits, potentially, from a revenue
diversification standpoint, the only thing I wanted to add that as of our revenue base grows, it still may be
capped by TABOR. So additional efforts to add significant amounts of revenue could also subject that
revenue to TABOR limitations, thereby being a zero sum game in which we would still have a ceiling,
which is capped by the combination of the consumer price index within the Denver Metro area, plus the
change in property tax evaluation growth. So that's all I had to say Mr. Chair. Thank you for the
opportunity.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And let me, just because your name has been invoked or at
least your title, General Counsel, if you wish to add any comment at this time, you need not, but we invite
you, should you choose to.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I don't have anything else to add at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Let me go-- first, are there any
other committee members who have questions or comments at this time for Board Chair Davidson. Mr.
Vice Chair, you are recognized, and Director Lewis, we'll come back to you in a moment. But first, we go
around to the committee members. So Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I'd just like to make one comment really quickly. When we're talking about
everything that's come out in the last few weeks with the white paper and needing to be asked for money,
it's this conversation-- 50% of our revenues are subject to TABOR, about $600 million. And we're being
asked to give some unknown amount of money or commit some unknown amount of money to the FRPR
project. And look, let's be honest here. I don't think any one of us who voted in 2004 are not interested in
seeing solid rail line built, but that's a third of that amount of money that could potentially be asked of this
Board of taxpayer funds.
And I want to say that because I think that the state needs to hear it, right? The legislature needs to
understand, we are stewards of the money of the taxpayers of the region. And we are being asked to
consider an unplanned and unspecified dollar amount to move forward with the plan from the Governor's
Office to complete a rail line that we haven't even seen a project plan for yet and don't have much
information on.
So I'm a little peeved, right? Even as a newer Director on this Board, but as a long-time taxpayer in this
district, that this is even coming up in the way that it is. Now, I want to be open-minded and I want to
participate in this conversation, but I also want to say the only reason that we're sitting here doing this is
because we do collect sales and use tax. So I'm going to repeat what I said before at our retreat here
because it's appropriate-- taxation without representation is tyranny. Any move to change the governance

of this Board would be inappropriate at a legislative level unless the people of the district decide that
that's what they want to do. I also think that it's really good we're having this conversation, and this will be
my last comment. So thank you.
We need to talk about how we're going to engage with the public and with other leaders, and we need
everybody on the same Board. So Chair Davidson, thank you for the very complete and thorough
presentation. I do want to follow up with you on some of the information that may be relevant to that, and I
cannot wait to see the talking points because we're going to be doing all of that work going forward.
We've already started, right?
This is not a joke. None of us are playing around, and with all of the naysaying that we get from
everybody else on this Board, we're the ones that look at these numbers every day and have the most
intimate knowledge of this subject matter. And so, I think that it behooves us to ensure every member of
this Board gets this recording and follows through with the transcript and the understanding of what we're
viewing here because this is going to be a make-or-break moment for RTD, and we cannot support our
GM CEO or any of the Executive suites members if we don't have this. And ultimately, that means at the
end of the day, we cannot support our operators, our janitors, our police force, or anything else until we
really wrangle with this problem that we potentially face with the ratchet down.
And so I hope everybody's ready to roll up their sleeves and get to work and tighten the belt and start
taking the bus and the train and fill those suckers up because when I got over here, I was on my way
back from downtown from a community event with the Vice President, and we came back on the bus and
the train, specifically, and I wanted to see how full they were. And I had an at-capacity bus coming home.
So I want to see that in every district everywhere, but if we're going to face a shortage of being able to
provide that minimum basic service that we're doing right now, there's no way that we can hope to grow
without dealing with this on a higher level. Thank you. That concludes my comments.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. We certainly covered the waterfront there. That
was excellent. I'm going to thank Director Lewis for his continued patience as I go to committee member
Director Ruscha at this time and recognize her.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I actually just raised my hand because I wanted to concur with
what Director Guzman just said. It would be hard to follow that one up. But I think it's irresponsible for us
to be talking about a potential-- and this is me speaking, not Director Guzman, but I think it's irresponsible
for us to be talking about building a train to Boulder and perpetual O&M funding through a FISA or
otherwise even just knowing what we with this financial modeling. But more importantly, or just as
importantly, I do not think that these conversations will ultimately sit well with voters.
I did have some questions about Chair Davidson's presentation. But I'd like a minute to collect my
thoughts, so if it's OK, Mr. Chair, we can go to Director Lewis while I prepare that?
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much, Director Ruscha, we'll certainly be open for you for any
other questions as you formulate them. Let me now recognize Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Director Guzman those are great comments. I just have two clarifying
questions, and they're both on page 24. I'm hoping the handout matches up. It says in 2050, the 0.04
sales tax and use tax may be reduced. I'm just curious, does council have any comment on the word may
instead of shall, and what constitutes may? I'm presuming we would have to go back to the ballot, but I
just wanted to clarification on that.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Let's take these in part, if we can, because I know you have another
question. But it sounds like you do. And Director Lewis, if you'll wait, I think that our Chief Financial Officer
Doug MacLeod may be able to respond to your question.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair, and thank you Director Lewis. Great question. So the way that the
ballot language was written for the 2004 voter approval of FasTracks-- and I paraphrase and would ask
Melanie Snyder to please supplement any comments that I have-- but essentially, what the voters
approved was that RTD would collect a 4/10 of a cent sales tax to expand with the FasTracks project,
also use that 4/10 to pay off any bond debt, revenue bond debt that was incurred to build out that
expansion, which happens to expire in 2050, with the intention that a portion of that 4/10 would sunset for
any portion that is not necessary to operate and maintain the system beyond the payment of those bonds
in 2050.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that. And Director Lewis, if you have another question now, you may
proceed with that.
JAIME LEWIS: And he might have answered this. It goes on to say, for-- and I think they're referring to
the exemption from TABOR-- it says for as long as any bond debt remains outstanding. And I guess I'm
trying to read into the tea leaves here. I'm curious if we were to create another bond, let's say, for
instance, to repair the tracks on the South end of the FasTracks, would that exemption continue?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please proceed.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. I saw the nod. Thank you. Appreciate the question. Great question as
well. So as it stands, the voter approval for the FasTracks debt issuance, as well as the collection of the
tax, occurred in 2004. Bond Counsel has advised RTD that bonding capacity has now expired after 20
years. And essentially, RTD has used the vast, vast majority. There was a small portion left of that bond
capacity, and there were three legs-- one was total repayment, one was principal balance, and one was
annual debt service.
RTD has exhausted all of that bond capacity, so we have no ability to issue additional bonds without
getting voter approval. What we do have from a financing capacity standpoint, RTD is still able to issue
certificates of participation, which have been deemed not subject to voter approval, essentially. However,
it would obviously be a concern as to whether-- if we issue those certificates of participation or COPs,
whether RTD would be able to service the debt adequately. That's the only constraint there. But yeah,
we're basically out of bonding capacity at this point on both the Base system and FasTracks.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you for that feedback.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And thank you both for that colloquy. And Director Ruscha, it would appear
that you have now had an opportunity to formulate your questions. Please proceed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thankfully, for the rest of the committee, not too much time
to formulate too many questions. But so this is for Chair Davidson or whomever. But can someone just
very clearly, for us, for the public, state again what we say is short-term and that impact? Can we repeat
that?

We jumped from short-term to long-term and I felt like we got-- this was me. I got some mixed messages.
Mr. MacLeod was speaking a little fast, and I couldn't track all of that when he was answering, I think, a
similar question. But would-- Chair Davidson, would you be kind enough to just restate very, very clearly
what you're talking about when you say short-term, and what is the potential immediate impact in the next
couple of fiscal years?
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you, and Chair Davidson, if you'd care to give some clarification relative
to your use of the phrase short-term, and perhaps, you can add mid-term and long-term to give us a
context for those. Please proceed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you Director Ruscha for the
question. Mr. MacLeod, I'll certainly open the floor to you as well if there's anything you'd like to add to
this. I would say that mid-term, I'll start there, is very much that mid-term financial plan. And under that
mid-term financial plan, we are able to deliver services and operate at the levels that we would project
and that we are today. So we have stability there, even though, in the latter portion of that mid-term
financial plan, we show negative cash flow, we have the reserves to be able to continue to operate.
Short-term, I'm thinking very much in that early portion of the mid-term financial plan, years one, two, and
three that are especially stable where we're looking at net positive cash flow. When I'm thinking long-term,
I'm generally referring to the Mobility Plan For the Future projection that is looking at the decade we're not
in and thereon. So the 2030s and thereon. That's where we really see a consistent level of shortfall that's
projected according to the mid-term-- I'm sorry. I keep saying that-- the Mobility Plan for the Future
projections.
So I'm thinking long-term as starting the 2030s and looking out from there. I would put the caveat that
while we are financially stable at this very moment on that short and mid-term, obviously, TABOR has a
real impact on that. And in fact, we're starting to look at what some of the-- how many years we could
continue on at current service levels in the TABOR environment. So we are currently financially stable
short-term, being the next one to three years. Mid-term, stable, looking at the mid-term financial plan on a
six-year horizon. Long-term is thinking the next decade and out, where we have consistent projected
shortfalls.
Mr. MacLeod, if it's OK, if it's OK with you, Mr. Chair, is there anything that you would like to add to that?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, you may proceed.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And Thank you, Chair Davidson. That's a great summary. And I would just
like to point out as well, so you did mention that currently, we are in good financial shape from a financial
standing standpoint. We do have some discussion items, and these are all plans to be in-- to correlate
with the information coming out of the revenue diversification working group.
Those items would be brought to this committee to talk about the fiscal policy in which we'll start having
those discussions that would potentially include recommendations of and discussions about our financial
position, what some potential scenarios might look like, as well as some possible things that we can do as
an agency to shore up our financial position on an ongoing basis and address the needs for shocks that
we may encounter in the future.

So I think, while we're subject to TABOR and some of these things may be somewhat out of our control,
we can address from a governance standpoint, how do we prepare ourselves best to address those
situations when they do arise? So thank you for the opportunity.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And, Director Ruscha, any follow-up question based upon that, or did you
have additional questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Maybe a combination of both. May I?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So related to this, looking back to the Reimagine, the DRCOG fiscallyconstrained scenario suggested that we get a tax increase. And I was wondering if someone could
address why we've set that aside and just give us a better picture as to-- I think I might know the answer,
but it would be very helpful if we could touch on that today.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Davidson, Mr. Chair, you may proceed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure, and if anyone else would like to add from the diversification working group,
please, as well. That's a great question, Director Ruscha and that constrained and talking about the
additional tax. I think that is definitely something this Board could consider and could look at, and we
could engage on. My personal sense in looking at that long-term plan and how we project sales and use
tax and consumer spending to grow, it would be good to identify alternative sources that while we're
looking for increased investment, we are also looking for diversity that can provide some backstop and
spread out risk.
And that's why I think, certainly the Board could look at that as the Reimagine effort had suggested in that
Mobility Plan for the future. I personally would say that there's an opportunity to do two things at once and
look for additional investment in transit and mitigate that risk that we have from a lack of diversity.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Director Ruscha, do you have one more question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: One more question, sir?
DOUG TISDALE: I say, do you have one more question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: At least. I'll try to keep them brief. I guess, so Director Davidson, I just want to make
sure I understand what you just said that so it's not so much that RTD disagrees with that modeling? OK.
Just that right now, we are not, as a policy making body, entertaining the idea of asking for a tax increase.
And so would it be reasonable to assume that in relation to polling, that that's not something that we're
asking voters how they would feel about it?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chair, you may respond to that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair and Director Ruscha. The polling right now happening is really
focused just on TABOR. I think it certainly could be something that this Board would consider as a policy
matter, whether or not to explore a tax increase. I think if we were to do that, it would be good for us to
then poll and explore that as a potential opportunity. I think we'll probably have a situation where we need
to tackle this in a series of phases and steps.

The most immediate thing we're facing right now is TABOR, and as Chief Financial Officer MacLeod
mentioned, and thank you for mentioning it, is that even if we start adding revenue on top of this, but
we're facing TABOR, we run the risk of not having a big enough impact. So the short-term focus is let's
get a strategy around TABOR and take a position on what we do there.
In terms of what comes next, the nice thing about being stable on a mid-term horizon is we have a little bit
of time to decide how we should act-- not a lot of time, because investments now have a compounding
return for us. But I do think that certainly, this Board could consider a tax increase, and I would definitely
say that we don't-- I certainly wouldn't disagree with the finding there. I just think there's an opportunity for
the Board to consider ways to find diverse revenue sources, which I would argue looks like an
engagement with our state partners and trying to look for general fund or transportation fund opportunities
that present a stronger backstop to the consumer volatility we face with the sales and use tax today.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And I'll just point out that in the 26 or 27 pages of
the presentation, there was nothing mentioned about a tax increase. Director Ruscha, I'll yield to you for
one more question if you want to wrap up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair, for your generosity. I referenced the other modeling because
we've spoken so much about Reimagine. So I just-- packet page 27, Chair Davidson you said that
extending debrucing is the best option. I just wanted clarifying question. Are we talking about temporarily
or permanently?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Mr. Chair, you may respond.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Ruscha. That's something to be explored
out of the results of the polling. I think that's based on what we find from the polling, something that we
would be discussing as those results come in terms of what might be available to us.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Are there any other committee members or
visiting Directors who have questions at this time? I will note for the sake of the record we've spent about
an hour and five minutes or so discussing this excellent presentation. And everyone is, of course,
encouraged and allowed to have separate dialogue with the revenue diversification working group with
further questions.
But I think, respectful of our time and the balance of the agenda, I would ask if you have something you'd
like to bring up now and you can do so succinctly, please do so. So I'll pause and allow anyone to raise
their hand. And seeing none, I thank you, Mr. Chair, for your excellent presentation and all of the
members of the revenue diversification working group for the hard work you've put in on this. We know
we have a lot before us, and let me emphasize the report from the working group is a regular part of our
agenda going forward. Every month, we will hear more.
So if you haven't had a chance to formulate all of your thoughts or reactions, you will be given more
opportunities each month of this year. And of course, in April, we're looking forward to the polling results.
With that, we will now then turn to the recommended actions on our agenda.
There is one recommended action on the agenda this evening, which action is for the approval of the
2024 Finance and Planning Committee work plan, and the recommended actions specifically is for the
Finance and Planning Committee to approve the 2024 committee work plan. Is there a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.

BOB BROOM: Second
DOUG TISDALE: I have Director Guissinger as the moveant, and I have Director Broom as the second on
that. And I appreciate that. And regarding this work plan, I would like to note, for the sake of the record
and for all of you, that changes have been made to the draft that we discussed at the Board retreat based
upon Director input that was received at the retreat. The changes are highlighted for your convenient
reference. And I would like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Jack Kroll, the Board
Office Executive Manager, if they have any additional comments to present to the committee regarding
the committee's proposed work plan at this time.
DOUG MACLEOD: Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod, I do not. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. Mr. Kroll, do you have anything that you would like to add to that?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board
Office. I do not have anything further to add other than to say, I think this is a great example of how the
committee saw an initial draft, provided some input and feedback. The Committee Chair and the
Committee Vice Chair worked very closely with the staff to incorporate that feedback. And this is a good
mix of ideas that the Board wishes to discuss and tackle throughout the year as well as mandatory items
the Administration will bring to them for their approval and input.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Are there any committee members now who have
questions, comments, or concerns addressed to the proposed work plan? This would be the appropriate
time to raise them. And I will begin by recognizing Vice Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Hey y'all. So I just wanted to say not to forget that this is a living document, and this
is the best plan going forward that included everybody's commentary and suggestions. But this is not, by
any means, the final draft. This is not etched in stone. And so we do have flexibility with this work plan.
But it also helps lay out the year so when we know Chair Davidson just brought up the fact that we'll get
more information at the end of March and may have a conversation in April and May-- some of that may
have to come through this committee or go through Ops and Safety or Executive, this will help guide that,
and we'll be able to plan functionally how we will not obliterate ourselves in one single committee meeting
and have to do-- what was the phrase, Lynn?
I'm sorry, Director Guissinger, Youmans work? I don't know. But that we can balance it out through the
whole year and still do Youmans work, just at a more controlled pace. So just a friendly reminder on that
one. And feel free to email our Chair, Doug Tisdale, or myself, and we will make sure that any of that
commentary gets passed on and is appropriately handled when we come back to meet on these. But it's
been fun working with all of you, so I hope we have a great year.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. Excellent point to emphasize-- once again, it is
not cast in concrete. It is not written in stone. It is, in fact, a living document that will be adjusted as needs
and circumstances dictate. Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I might point out that I think in future years, maybe this will be introduced earlier in
the year rather than several months in. We don't want to fall in the trap of the federal government where
they're still doing the budget and end on that 11th month.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. And just for those who might wonder as to
the timing, some of this is dictated by the realities of the calendar year and when we elect our officers and

select new committee chairs and vice chairs, which is at the first meeting in January. So we don't have as
much flexibility on timing, but we can proceed expeditiously. I will also note that this was our first exercise.
We now have a good working template that we can use and revise in the future, and I think that's
something that will address the concern that you raised Director Broom. Thank you. Director Ruscha, you
are recognized.
Thank you, Mr Chair.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I'm looking at the highlighted additions. There is a reference for the April meeting.
It says budget content and process with proposed changes, and then the following month, there is a
discussion on fiscal policy. And then June, the next month, there is the draft budget framework. Could
someone just briefly explain if those things are all tied together, and will there be an action item relative to
how our budget is presented, or is that just assumed to be part of future changes to fiscal policy?
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent question. And thank you for seeing the thread because there is a thread that
goes through those. And we begin with the fact that the budget content is something that we specifically
added because there were questions raised. And it's what I have called the Goldilocks effect, when in
prior years, we had so much information, it was overwhelming. And then we got the skinny mini version of
it, which was so lean and mean that there were many Directors who felt that there was a lot of information
that they did not have and would have liked to have.
And now, what we're looking for is the Goldilocks effect, where it'll be just right. And that's why we have
the content being addressed first, and then the fiscal policy, which is a broader overarching policy review
leading into then the actual draft budget framework in advance of ultimately, the budget being presented.
But as you know, the budget is presented to this committee after staff has spent weeks and weeks and
months putting together all of that information to come up with the budget. So that's, if you will, the tracing
of the thread.
With that, let me ask Mr. MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, if he has anything to supplement to that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And yeah, and I would like to thank Chair Tisdale and Vice
Chair Guzman for working through this because essentially, what our intent is to have ongoing
discussions leading up to the budget, have a constant discussion, Board feedback about what that would
look like, what content-- we'll suggest potential adjustments to the reporting format. So by the time we get
to the budget, we will have in October, a draft budget that by that time, we intend to have it in the format
that the Board would like to see. Then come back in November with a recommended action to approve
the budget for 2025.
So as Chair Tisdale mentioned, it's intentional with this schedule to really get a lot of feedback and a lot of
interaction and collaboration in making any modifications to that process and reporting.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. Are there other committee members or visiting
directors who have any questions, comments, or concerns they would like to express relative to this
recommended action item to adopt the committee's 2024 work plan? Seeing no one indicating a desire to
speak at this time, I will proceed to a vote. And I will ask, are there any no votes by the committee
members on this action item?
Hearing no votes, then we have a unanimous adoption by the committee members here with no negative
votes and no abstentions on the motion that was made by Director Guissinger and seconded by Director

Broom. And I want to add one important note here for the sake of transparency, and that is that the work
plan only has to be approved by this committee. It does not require separate approval by the full Board.
That said, the approved work plan will be shared with the full Board for reference and review, and
obviously, even for comment should that be desired.
There are no other recommended action items. We have a discussion item now, just one, and that
discussion item on our agenda is for the account-based ticketing contract extension. And at this point in
time, I would call upon Charlene Polege, our Chief People Officer at RTD, to present this item. So Miss
Polege, if you would please present.
Oh, wait. Mr. MacLeod, I believe I'm not seeing Miss Polege, so I assume you are stepping into those
shoes for purposes of a presentation. Please proceed.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And yes, I'd like to also introduce Monika Treipl-Harnike, who is
the Senior Manager of Revenue who has joined me to answer any specific questions. And I'd like to take
this opportunity as well to recognize Monika, Mrs. Treipl-Harnike, for her efforts with implementing the
fare structure and equity analysis recommendations that were put in place with the fare structure
changes. She really ran point on that effort, the 18-month effort. There were a whole host, across the
organization, of individuals who put in a lot of work, but Monika is truly our fare revenue and revenue
expert. So just wanted to give a shout-out during this public presentation.
This discussion item is being brought this month to allow time for committee consideration. The intent
would be to come back on the April 16 Finance and-- sorry-- April-- yes, excuse me. April 16 Finance and
Planning Committee with a recommended action for the committee to undertake consideration of actually
extending this contract with Mesabi.
So there's a lot of information. I hope that explains what we're asking for within the discussion item in the
Board report. So I'll just give a few highlights. Mesabi is the company that RTD contracts with to provide
mobile ticketing as well as account-based ticketing. So they're essentially responsible for the vast, vast
majority of electronic purchases of fare revenue for our customers. That accounts for approximately 60%
of fares, and when I talk about the system that Mesabi provides, through both AVT and Mobile Ticketing,
which is also known as the MyRide app, they provide the back office software that supports those
transactions.
So for our customers, if you have a mobile device, the software application within that mobile device for
the MyRide app is all hosted as well as provided by Mesabi. In addition to mobile ticketing, a large portion
of our transactions through the eco pass program, the CollegePass program, and the neighborhood eco
pass program, all of those transactions and validations occur through our system. So there's a large
number of our customers that use that system.
Mesabi has provided excellent service in the many years that we've been with Mesabi providing this
service, and we've done several upgrades along the way. So we started with mobile ticketing, then we
went to account-based ticketing and discontinued using card-based ticketing. It's very well-received by
our customers. Mesabi has been an excellent partner. They provide a lot of research, a lot of support,
staff support, as well as in the past, we've had zero fare for better air. We've had New Year's Eve fares.
Those that takes some effort in terms of programming, not only our fares themselves on an ongoing
basis, but making those adjustments. They've always been very responsive, very helpful in our
interactions.

So what this recommended action that will be coming in April has to do is to extend that contract with
Mesabi an additional two years, rather than going out to RFP right away. As staff continues to develop an
overall revenue or-- sorry, fare revenue system strategy that's aligned with our strategic initiatives. So we
really want to look at the whole system so we have cash paying customers through our fare boxes. We
have customers that use ticket vending machines on our rail platforms. We have customer service outlets
that actually sell our paper tickets, as well as King Soopers and Safeway.
So we really want to look at that whole system and how we provide services with a lens towards equity.
And it's the second step to implementing all the fare changes that have been very well-received thus far
by our customers that occurred at the beginning of this year. We want to continue that support process
with the functionality that we currently have for the next two years, extending the contract from June of
2024 through June of 2026 to allow enough time to evaluate future needs, as well as go out to RFP. So
you can imagine replacing a system that's that critical to RTD's operations takes a great deal of time. We
believe two years would be the time necessary to make that happen.
So with that, Mr. Chair, Monika and I would be happy to answer any questions that the committee may
have. Thank you for the opportunity.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I need to extend a formal apology, both to Miss Polege and
to Mrs. Treipl-Harnike because I knew that Monika was the one who was supposed to be here with you
on this. And for some reason, I just transferred myself into a different place and called upon Miss Polege.
But she should not be embarrassed by the fact that she's not here because this is not her item.
And so we have both our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. MacLeod, and Mrs. Monika Treipl-Harnike, who are
available to respond to any questions or comments that any of the committee members first would have
to raise to them. So are there any questions or comments from committee members?
Seeing none at this time, let me ask, are there any other directors who are present-- oh, I'm sorry.
Director Ruscha, I did not see your hand until just now. Please, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So this is for Mr. MacLeod. I just want to make sure I
understood your framing because we're talking about a two-year extension. And looking at other ways, I
guess, ways to make it easier to buy a ticket to ride the bus. So is this two-year, like buying more time?
Should the Board not expect, I guess, any other updates or enhancements in terms of mobile ticketing, or
I should just-- not even just mobile ticketing but fair purchase options, generally?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, if you can, you can answer that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question. And no, that would not preclude any potential
fare changes or enhancements from a fare provision perspective. So certainly, we would continue to
make certain adjustments or updates or changes as technology changes. And if there's something,
certainly that our customers wanted, we would come to the Board to have that discussion too, that we
would be considering something of that nature, working within the realm of, we do have some things to
discuss in the future that are somewhat related that are on our work plan, such as continuation of the zero
fare for youth, et cetera.
So those conversations, those changes would be ongoing, and still follow that same process. The intent
of the two years would be to take approximately six months or less to really evaluate our overall system.
The rest of the time would allow for potential requests for proposals to make sure that it's a competitive

search to replace once the contract is ended with Mesabi, also understanding that two years gives us
enough time to do that plus implement and test the system and do all those communications. So
certainly, there would be much discussion.
And under Monika's leadership over that area, there's been some discussion about additional
enhancements that may have merit that we would bring back to the Board. There's new technology
involving tap to pay with credit cards, other things. And we've deliberately set up this system so that it's
transferable. So other providers-- there's nothing necessarily unique to the back office system of what
Mesabi provides to RTD, other than their proprietary software. So we've deliberately set up the ability to
replace a system with a new system with a new vendor if that should occur.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. Director Ruscha, just noting for the record, at RTD, innovation never
sleeps. Did you have any further comments that you wanted to raise at this time?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. All right. And Mr. Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And you all thought you were off the hook, huh? No.
[CHUCKLES]
Mr. MacLeod or Mrs. Treipl-Harnike, I'm just curious, this system that we have right now, if I understand it
correctly, it's not just MyRide app, but this is also the same system that is, when I pull up my Lyft app, and
I'm trying to figure out, I can get this far here, but I can just get to the A line and then jump on the train.
This is the same integrated system that we're using in all of those for the payment services? Is that what's
going on here? [INAUDIBLE] just one form? Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question, and I'd like to defer to Monika because she does have a
little bit better understanding of those interactions. But please, Monika, if you can add some color to that
question please.
DOUG TISDALE: Mrs. Treipl-Harnike.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNIKE: Monika Treipl-Harnike, Senior Manager of Revenue. So the Mesabi system
is integrated with Transit app and Uber, Lyft. They no longer do Transit ticket purchases. So yes, but so
the ticket purchases go through the Mesabi app with integrations. So if we wanted, in the future, because
we talked about innovations or enhancements, if that's something that are RTB decided in the future to
do, maybe some additional integrations, that would be possible through the Mesabi app. It is also
possible for any new vendor we may be selecting.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. And Mr. Vice Chair, is that responsive to your question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, sorry. I forgot to lower my hand.
DOUG TISDALE: That's fine. Thank you very much, sir. Director Ruscha you are recognized again.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I had a moment to collect myself. Please don't make me laugh.
Something in the delivery got me. So I just to say thank you to Mr. MacLeod because I did have a mild
panic attack when I thought you were saying that we would not have this discussion again for another two
years.
But this is a piggyback off of what Director Guzman just said and what was just stated. Within the apps, I
guess, within our current options, is it possible-- I'm not saying are we or will we, but is it possible, for
example, if somebody wanted to pay for a ticket and use Google Pay or something? I mean, we talked
about tap to pay, which is five or six years old now, but even for the customer to be able to easily link
another payment option where that information is already saved, is that something that we could explore
within the current infrastructure?
DOUG TISDALE: That's an excellent question. Can you Venmo on to the RTD? Mr. MacLeod, your
thoughts.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And I would like Monika to help explain the payment options that currently
exist. We accept many different types of payments such as Visa, MasterCard. But think Monika can talk a
little bit more about some of these other types of payment possibilities.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNIKE: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Mrs. Treipl-Harnike.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNIKE: Oh, thank you. I think that-- OK, there might be two questions. Or I'll start
with just the payment options that we have in the current system, which are credit card, debit cards,
Google Pay, and I believe, it's either Apple Pay or Google Pay that we will be introducing very, very soon
over the next few months. The other bigger project or bigger type of payment that we'll be discussing but
we have not made any decisions if that's a good direction to go, and if so, what timing would be good
would be people just tapping on the validator directly with a contactless credit card or their Apple Wallet
or their Google Wallet. So that's going to be a bigger discussion because that's more involved, and it
might require a separate contract with Mesabi or a third-party vendor.
So yes, we are exploring all these and in the very short-term, the Google and Apple pay in the app should
be available.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And Director Ruscha, is that responsive to your question then?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Thank you. I just want to make sure we're making it as easy as possible for
people to give us money for their tickets and buy tickets. So thank you for that update.
DOUG TISDALE: A worthy goal indeed. Are there other questions, comments, concerns from any
committee members or from any of our visiting directors relative to the account-based ticketing contract
extension discussion item? Seeing none, we'll conclude that discussion item, and we will look forward to
seeing an action item at our April meeting now that we've had an opportunity to vet that further. We turn
next to then on our agenda to other matters. Are there any other matters that any committee members
wish to raise at this time? Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I understand there's a large storm looming in the Denver Metro area,
and I wonder if we could get a brief presentation on what steps are being taken to prepare for that by our
agency.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. I'm sure that will be addressed tomorrow night too, both during
Operations and Safety, because that's their realm, but also because it will probably be going on at that
time. So let me call upon our General Manager and CEO, Miss Johnson to address that now please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you for the question, Director Broom.
Reflecting back on the conversation we had back in January during the Martin Luther King weekend when
we had subzero temperatures, recognizing that our operating environment has fluctuations in weather
conditions, we have, at the ready, our weather plans that we activate. We continually monitor what's
happening. Just as a matter of fact, today, communiqu was disseminated to all of RTD regarding our
emergency preparedness aspects, whereby we provided information relative to what's happening.
More specifically, what we do is we have snow level services at varying levels. We assess the operability
of our stations and our infrastructure and make determinations about what is happening. Our folks that
staff our Operations Control Center, both on the rail and bus side, engage with Operations staff and are
highly communicative relative to service disruptions, notifications, and things of the like, and that is no
different from any other mitigations that we put forward in reference to ensuring that we are providing
services in a meaningful manner to basically reduce the potential for impacts.
And more specifically, CDOT is evaluating what is happening as well, relative to whether or not they're
going to issue a do not travel response relative to the weather and what may come with accumulations
representing precipitation. So we will take all of that under advisement as we go forward.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam General Manager and CEO. Appreciate that. Director
Broom, did you want to supplement?
BOB BROOM: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, sir. And Director Ruscha, you have an other
matter to bring before us.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I do. May I bring two, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Can we-- are they joined, or do you want to do them separately?
JOYANN RUSCHA: However you will allow.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Please. We would be happy to hear both. Let's try to do one at a time. So
please bring the first one forward, and then rest assured, we will come back to you for the second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for your generosity, Mr. Chair. So first, and I hope I'm not stealing anyone
else's thunder or speaking too entirely out of order, I just wanted to, while we're here, I wanted to
recognize Mr. Ford, if he didn't-- he dropped off my screen. I don't know if he dropped off the call. OK.
And now he's back on the screen. But anyway, I just I just wanted to recognize that there was an
announcement going out that Mr. Ford will be retiring soon. And so, I just wanted to say thank you, and
again, I apologize if I took the wind out of your sails, Mr. Chair, if you were going to mention that. But I just
wanted to make sure that I said something while I was thinking about it. I saw that email right before I
logged on.

DOUG TISDALE: That's fine. I thank you. You actually stole my line because I was going to take a
moment to acknowledge Mr. Ford's presence, Mr. Ford's service, Mr. Ford's dedication, and his fantastic
career, including running things in my old stomping grounds in Ann Arbor. And it's a privilege to have him
with us this evening. I anticipate he might also be hearing some of these same words tomorrow evening
at the Operations and Safety Committee as our Assistant General Manager for our Chief Operating
Officer or Operations Officer, so I appreciate that. But that's very kind.
And before going to your second point Director Ruscha, if I may, I would like to open the floor to Mr. Ford,
if he would like to make any comments at this time. Not compelled to do so, but free to do so.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Chair. Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer. Thank you for your kind
words. I appreciate the sentiment here, and thank you again. And it's been six years, six long years. So
thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. We all stand in appreciation of your fine work. Director
Ruscha, I proceed back to you now for your second item you wanted to raise.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, and apologize again, Mr. Chair, if I was to out of turn. I saw that email before we
started and I wanted to say something before I forgot. But my-- I don't know if-- I guess we'll call it a
request for information or just a thought for the group. I was reflecting on memos from last year about our
FISA account, and the history and some Board policy. And then when I went to look in our Board
documents and try to search for accompanying resolutions, I found it a little bit difficult just because the
search function can get clunky.
And so I wanted to ask would it be possible for staff-- and I'm not asking for a whole historical accounting
of the FISA, but to collect Board resolutions, including the original one and maybe get that out to the
Board or perhaps, Mr. Kroll could put it in a SharePoint folder just so that we have kind of a library to
access. And to that end, as since we're talking about fiscal policy, I also was wondering maybe we
consider having a kind of single cheat sheet, like we do with our general fiscal policy about the FISA and
where that currently-- what Board policy right now is attached to it and/or incorporate that into our fiscal
policy as we look to making an enhancement and having that discussion. So I just wanted to bring that
up.
And I'll just give an example. I wasn't sure if per our current policy, vis a vis the FISA, if we could use the
FISA for O&M. And didn't know where to look. And so I just-- I kind of went through that deep dive, and
possibly maybe we don't have a policy on it. But I think that might be helpful for us. Again, I really
appreciate the memos. It was very well summarized for me, personally. I also work well if I could look at
source documents, and given that the FISA will be a topic of conversation in the coming weeks, I thought
that might be beneficial. So I just wanted to raise that.
And similarly, if there is another document that exists or maybe a folder that can be pulled together that
has our current policies for other funds like, unrestricted. And again, I'm not asking for a big staff memo,
but even just again, those original source documents maybe put in a library for us. I know I would learn a
lot from it, and I thought perhaps my colleagues would appreciate that as well. Not everyone has the
memory of Chair Tisdale.
And so I just wanted to just to put that out there and see what staff thought, and I hope it wasn't a-- yeah.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that comment, Director Ruscha. I think it would be an
exceptionally helpful and beneficial task, as you have indicated, just to collect the source documents. Not
looking for taking up any staff time in terms of creating a complicated analysis, but rather making the raw
information available to the Directors. And it prompts me to make the observation that former Director
Judy Lubow may be gone, but she is not forgotten. And this was a topic of great interest and concern to
her through the years, so I appreciate that suggestion, and I will be happy to follow up with Board staff in
seeing what we can do about that.
Are there any other matters for Directors to bring up at this time, either committee members or otherwise
that pertain to the Finance and Planning Committee? Seeing none, then we'll close the other matters
portion of our agenda, and I will note that the next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled
for Tuesday, April 16, same time, same channel, as set forth in our now-approved committee work plan.
The key items on that agenda will be discussions related to sales and use tax revenue, the content of the
annual budget that is presented to the Board for approval, and a discussion related to the polling results
that has received related to a potential TABOR ballot initiative. Additionally, we are slated to consider
recommended actions related to Zero Fare for Better Air, and also related to the East Colfax BRT project.
As a reminder, our agenda and our work plan are always subject to change. Nonetheless, April looks to
be another exciting meeting of the Finance and Planning Committee, and I definitely look forward to
seeing all of you there.
And seeing no other discussion, for the sake of the record, I will note that we now adjourn this meeting as
of 7:21 PM Mountain Daylight Time this day in March. Thank you all very much. Have a most pleasant
evening.

