Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on July 16, 2007
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 16, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held
on July 16, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Dave Ruchman, Chairman, Noel Busck, Co-chair; Juanita
Chacon, Bill Christopher, Lee Kemp, Bill McMullen, John Tayer
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Susan Altes, Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke,
Dennis Cole, Chuck Culig, Paul Deeley, Marcia Fraley, David
Krutsinger, Scott Reed, Errol Stevens, Liz Telford, Bill Van
Meter, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Debra Baskett (US 36 TMO), Don Ulrich (CH2MHill), Thor
Gjelsteen, Mary Keith Floyd (Baker), Peter Hankovszky (Baker),
Dwight Schock (Baker), Holman Carter (ATU), L.W. Morrow,
Larry Warner (Parsons, Brinckerhoff, Quade and Douglas),
Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News)
***
Co-Chair Busck called the meeting to order at 5:01 P.M.

Call to Order:
I.

Updates
 RFQ for TOD at Denver Federal Center – Gideon Berger, Transit Oriented
Development Associate, gave this update.
The Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) wants the District to go forward with a competitive bid
for joint development at the Federal Center site. The District had been in
conversation with St. Anthony’s hospital prior to FTA’s decision. Mr. Berger
distributed a time line for the project. This timeline is available for viewing
in the Planning and Development Meeting Minutes Notebook.


General Manager’s Goal – The Committee discussed the suggested goal for
Planning and Development which is; “Complete 90% Final design on the
West Corridor and prepare RTD’s solicitation for the Federal Transit
Administration’s Full Funding Grant Agreement by December 31, 2007.”

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on July 16, 2007
Page 2 of 7

Director McMullen asked if this was a realistic goal. Cal Marsella responded
that it is an aggressive but appropriate goal that is crucial to the corridor
remaining on schedule.
II. Recommended Actions
 West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals and Contract Amendment for the
Design and Costing of Approved or Agreed-Upon Items – Liz Rao, Assistant
General Manager, Planning and Development, introduced this action. Dennis
Cole, Engineering Project Manager, gave more detail. Urban Drainage has
signed off on the design at Decatur. The design is as it was in the 65%
design submittal. City and County of Denver will be responsible for design
and construction of the Decatur channel as well as any environmental
issues. The District will work on coordinating construction schedules with
the City and County of Denver as to mitigate impacts to West Corridor
construction.
Director McMullen asked about the design of the track through that area.
Dennis Cole gave a description of how the corridor will go through this area.
Liz Rao, spoke about the Value Engineering issue for Jefferson County. Ms.
Rao is meeting with Nanette Neelan on July 17, 2007 to discuss a proposal
that Jefferson County has regarding the issue of single track to the
Jefferson County Government Center. Jefferson County would like to see
10 minute frequencies instead of 15 minute frequencies and is interested in
partnering with the District in terms of cost sharing to make this happen.
Cal Marsella said that he is not sure if this would work and staff is looking at
numbers.
Director Ruchman asked about the location of station at Decatur. Liz Rao
said that the District met with the City and County of Denver on July 16,
2007 regarding this issue.
There may be schedule, cost, and operation
implications to move the station from its current proposed location
(recommended in the EIS) to a location just south of Invesco Field. Dennis
Cole gave details on the problems with relocating the station. Staff feels
that this request is coming very late in the process. The City needs to
respond to the District by Thursday, July 19, 2007 if they are able to come
up with the funding for this change request.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to maintain the
drainage improvements east of Decatur to the South Platte River as currently
designed by the City/County of Denver as shown in the November 2006
65% final design submittal. The Planning and Development Committee
further recommends that the RTD Board of Directors defer action until the
August Board meeting on the Value Engineering (VE) proposals for Single
Track Section from Denver Federal Center to Jefferson County and single
track tunnel at I-70.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on July 16, 2007
Page 3 of 7

Motion: Director Busck made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the July 24,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director Chacon
the motion.

seconded

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
 West Corridor Property Acquisition and Relocation Assistance Services Contract –
Susan Altes, Manager, Real Property spoke to this action. The RFP was issued
May 25, 2007. Three proposals were received. The evaluation committee
recommended that the district grant a contract to all three firms. This is based on
the TREX model. Two of the firms are DBE certified. Two of these firms were
used on the TREX project.
Director Ruchman asked about timeline for impact on the West Corridor. Susan
Altes responded that work will most likely begin later this year.
Director Christopher asked about the total number of parcels that the District will
need to acquire. Susan Altes responded that final numbers are not determined
yet and she estimates approximately 150 properties. Not all of the properties
will be “total take.”
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award multiple contracts to the qualified proposers,
Universal Field Services, Inc., in the amount of $800,000.00, H. C. Peck &
Associates, Inc. in the amount of $800,000.00 and Briggs Field Services, Inc. in
the amount of $400,000.00 for the provision of Property Acquisition, Relocation
Assistance, Property Management and Planning Services for the West Corridor
Light Rail Project and and/or possible additional transit projects.
Motion: Director McMullen made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the July 24,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on July 16, 2007
Page 4 of 7

 Recommendation for Contract Award to Michael Baker Jr., Inc for the I-225
Corridor Environmental Evaluation/Preliminary Engineering (EE/PE) Contract
Larry Warner, Contractor, talked about this action. Staff is continuing to work on
the terms of an IGA with CDOT with a goal of coming to Committee with an IGA
at next month’s Committee Meeting. Director Ruchman asked what the
outstanding issues are. Larry Warner replied that there are two issues: 1. Charge
for use of ROW and 2. Construction impacts to their facility for the potential six
lanes and eight lanes on I-225. Cal Marsella said that RTD is looking at donating
some right of way to CDOT for Wadsworth/120th in exchange for right of way on
I-225. The District is proceeding with an Environmental Evaluation for the entire
corridor with an Environmental Assessment for the interstate portion. Liz Rao
explained the nuance, I-225 is not a federal funded corridor but when right of
way is impacted, the District must do an Environmental Assessment.
Director McMullen asked about effect to timeline. Larry Warner spoke that there
should not be any effects on the timeline unless an EIS was ordered. If an EIS
was ordered, it could affect the timeline.
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Michael Baker
Jr., Inc. to perform an Environmental Evaluation study and Preliminary Engineering
for the I-225 Corridor project. The contract award will be in the amount of
$5,262,716. Funding for this project is included in the FasTracks Budget and
Program.
Motion: Director McMullen made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the July 24,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director Chacon seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

 Contract Award – Central Corridor 4-Car Platform Modification Project – Liz Rao
introduced this action. Auraria, 10th/Osage, Alameda, and I-25/Broadway are the
stations that need to be modified from three car to four car platforms to match the
Southeast Corridor and the downtown stations.
Director McMullen asked about a timeline. Paul Deeley, LRT Construction Manager,
responded that it will take 9 to 12 months to complete. Sixty-two percent of the
contract will be contracted out to SBE firms.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on July 16, 2007
Page 5 of 7

It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award RTD Contract 37DR008 to
Krische Construction in the amount of $2,812,963 for the Central Corridor 4-Car
Platform Modification Project. The total budget for this project includes
construction of: highblocks with canopies, platform extensions with lighting and
tactile warning surfaces, trackway paving, and fencing, signal and miscellaneous
other minor station modifications. The construction, contingency, and construction
management funding for the project is in the approved FY2007 FasTracks Budget.
Director Kemp asked about power upgrades and the cost. Rick Clarke said that
three new substations would need to be added on the southeast corridor, paid for
with TREX funds. Each substation would cost approximately $2 million. Elati
would need a new substation which would cost approximately $5 million.
Motion: Director Busck made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the July 24,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director Christopher
the motion.

seconded

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
 Recommendation to Extend the CH2M Hill Contract on the Gold Line to Complete
the FEIS/ROD and Advanced Basic Engineering – Liz Rao introduced this action.
FTA wants a decision on the Gold Line EIS by the end of 2008 in order to maintain
the Penta P application. Liz Telford, Manager, Corridor Planning, gave some more
clarification on the contract and that it is critical to the Penta P application.
Director Ruchman had questions on the original contract. Liz Telford and Cal
Marsella gave clarification on the contract. The District is also trying to stay on
schedule with the East Corridor so that RODs (record of decision) on both corridors
will be received at the same time.
Director Kemp asked about DMU option and why it is not included in the contract.
He voiced his concern about the cost escalation to consider DMU. Cal Marsella
spoke to Director Kemp’s concerns. There is overwhelming support in the corridor
for EMU and Mr. Marsella referenced the presentation given at the July 10, 2007
FasTracks Committee where it was shown that EMU is the most cost effective for
the Gold Line. Liz Telford also spoke about how early in the EIS process, DMU was
ruled out as a viable alternative for the Gold Line.
Directors Ruchman and Chacon spoke to the mood of the constituency in the
corridor and the preference for EMU.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on July 16, 2007
Page 6 of 7

Director Christopher spoke about fiscal responsibility and that it is the Board’s
responsibility to worry about the budget despite the public’s preference.
Liz Rao said this action is really about proceeding with the EIS process.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to extend the contract with the
current Gold Line corridor consultant, CH2M Hill, in an amount not to exceed
$8,940,012 to complete the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and advanced
basic engineering on the current Preferred Alternative (EMU on the railroad
alignment). Funds for this effort are included in the Gold Line 2007 Budget for the
FasTracks Program. This alternative is dependent on the Board accepting EMU as
the preferred technology recommendation.
If not, then Alternative #2 is
recommended.
Motion: Director McMullen made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the July 24,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director Chacon seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed 5-2 (
Kemp and Christopher voted
against)
 Resolution No.___, Series of 2007: Regarding Support for Colorado’s Urban
Partnership Agreement Proposal for the US 36 Corridor – Bill Van Meter, Senior
Manager, Systems Planning, spoke to this resolution. The resolution is asking for
the Board’s formal support of the application by the US 36 Mayors and
Commissioners to the United States Department of Transportation for discretionary
funds for the US 36 corridor for Bus Rapid Transit and managed lanes.
Director Christopher commended the US 36 mayor’s group for pursing the Federal
Funding. Director Kemp echoed Director Christopher’s sentiments.
Debra Baskett, City and County of Broomfield, addressed the committee and spoke
about the municipalities excitement for this opportunity. Ms. Baskett thanked the
Board for their willingness to support the application.
The RTD Board of Directors does hereby declare support for “Colorado’s Urban
Partnership Agreement” proposal and for the request for funding through the US
Department of Transportation’s Urban Partnership Agreement program, in order to
advance the development of “managed lanes” and Bus Rapid Transit as effective
traffic congestion mitigation measures for the region.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on July 16, 2007
Page 7 of 7

Motion: Director Christopher made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the July 24,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director Kemp seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

III. Other Matters – Errol Stevens, Senior Manager, Facilities, gave a brief update on
parking management schedule. There is not a firm timeline at this time. Staff
plans to come back to the Board in September or October with a parking
management plan. Full approval of the plan would be before the Board in January
of 2008.
Director McMullen asked about extending the free parking from 24 to 48 hours
for in District parkers.
Director Busck asked about looking at transponders as a method of fee collection.
Errol Stevens responded that staff is pricing out transponders.

IV. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be August 6, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.
V. Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the
meeting at 6:42 P.M.

