Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on February 6, 2007 at 6:45
p.m. Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 6, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 6,
2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D, RTD Basement

Please Note: Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee will meet the first hour preceding the Board
Study Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
Board
Members Present:

Chairperson Martinez; Directors Chacon, Elfenbein
Busck, Brohl, Christopher, Daly, Kemp, Kinton, Quinlan,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Phil Washington, , John Shonsey, Bill
Van Meter, Pauletta Tonilas, Caitlin Magee, Ron Dodsworth,
Paula Perdue, Lisa Trujillo, Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Lloyd Mack, Tony McCaulay, Scott
Reed, Cal Shankster, Roger Sherman, John Tarbert, Kevin
Diviness

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow
***
Chairperson Martinez called the meeting to order at
5:45 p.m.

Call to Order:

Study Session
I. 2007 Committee Assignments
Chairperson Martinez noted a couple of housekeeping items: The setup of
the room had been changed based on the feedback from the Board retreat in
December, 2006. Also, he reminded the Directors that where possible, to
please turn the cell phones off or put on vibrate.
Chairperson Martinez asked for support for the 2007 Committee
assignments and reflected this was a drop from 14 committees in 2006 to 9
committees in 2007. He asked for the Chairs of the respective committees
to work closely with their vice-chairs and staff to establish meeting times
and agendas that worked for all. He also requested the Chairs to be
sensitive to the work schedule of members of their committees as they
establish meeting times for regular committee meetings.
Director Brohl requested that the telephone conference bridge is opened up

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on February 6, 2007 at 6:45
p.m. Page 2 of 3
for every meeting without need for an advance request. After ten minutes if
the bridge is not being used, it will be closed.
For copies of the new Committee assignments, please refer to the document
in the Study session minute notebook located in the Board office.
II. Proposed Bylaw Changes
Chairperson Martinez indicated that he had not received any changes from
the Board related to the amended Bylaw changes. Director Ruchman
submitted his changes to the Board staff for incorporation into the amended
Bylaws. Director McMullen requested change to Article VII, Officers and
Personnel, section 11 (c) to include “sexual orientation.”
For copies of the proposed Bylaw changes, please refer to the document in
the Study Session minute notebook located in the Board office.
III. Goals and Objectives of Board Office
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board, presented the
accomplishments of the Board office and the direction and goals for 2007.
For a copy of that presentation, please refer to the document in the Study
Session minute notebook located in the Board office.
IV. Snowstorm Plan Response Review
Cal Marsella shared the Severe Snowstorm Operating Procedures which
identified lessons learned, action and current status items. The plan was
well received by the Board.
Director Brohl made one additional request to expand item 16 on lessons
learned, amount of snow and ice at park-n-Ride stations, to include how to
clean stations so riders can get to platform. An additional request was made
to get more description from the command center on how to help bus
drivers get more information to the riders. For a copy of the Snowstorm
plan response, please refer to the document in the Study Session minute
notebook located in the Board office.
V. GM Evaluation Update
 Questions from Board on Cal’s 2006 Performance Goals
Director Kemp asked if anyone had questions from the 2006 GM
Performance Evaluation. It was discovered that this report had only been
seen by members of the GM Evaluation Committee and therefore the other
Board members could not have submitted their comments. This report was
requested to be distributed to all Board members requesting a turnaround for
feedback by Friday, February 9 th 2007 so the committee can move on with
the evaluation.


2007-Performance Indicator Measures, Proposed Revision of (item
1.4)
Lloyd Mack provided an explanation of how the PUC calculates reportable
accidents and why under these set of criteria, the performance indicator
#1.4, reduce the number of light rail accidents, that had been previously
approved in a Board action on January 23, 2007, was not obtainable. After

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on February 6, 2007 at 6:45
p.m. Page 3 of 3
hearing the explanation, the Board concurred and consented to the change
to the performance indicator to read <3 for the year 2007. This will be a
Board action for 2/20/07.
VI. Other Matters

VII. Adjournment—meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.

