Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on March 9, 2010
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 9, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee meeting held
on March 9, 2010 at 6:34 p.m. in the R, T & D room

*******************************************************************
Board
Members Present:
Directors
Absent:

Committee Chair Brohl, Directors Bagley, Christopher, Cohen, Daly,
Malpiede, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen
Directors Busck, James, Kemp, and Tayer

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Marla Lien, Lou Ha, Brian Matthews, Cal Shankster,
Steve Gieske, Robert Merriman, Terry Howerter, John Tarbert, Teresa
Sedmak, Kenn Hardin, Trent Ratcliff, Dave Genova, Errol Stevens ,
Brian Iacono, Linda Wells, Mike Gil, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee,
Daria Serna, Scott Reed, Dean Shaklee, Carolyn Conover, Bob
Mickelson, Bill Holmes

Others Present:

Celina Benevidez (Celina, Inc.), Brett Paffiter (DES), Sanford Weinberg
(ACS), Roger Johnson (AIS) Christopher Jarrett, Karly Malpiede

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Committee Chair Brohl called the Operations and Customer Services
Committee meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
I.

Unfinished Business
 Recommended Action - Smart Media Technology Contract Award – revised – Bruce
Abel, Assistant General Manager, Customer and Contracted Services introduced
this item. There was a demonstration of the Smart Card technology presented at
the February 23, 2010 Study Session. There was a slight change to the
recommendation, the budget number has been revised and the additional equipment
that will be installed on the West Corridor and Denver Union Station are not
included in this action but we do have the option to add them in the future.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract for the Smart Media Technology (SMT)

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on March 9, 2010
Page 2 of 7
project to ACS Transport Solutions, Inc. of Columbia, Maryland in an amount notto-exceed $15,350,000.

II.

Motion:

Director Christopher made a
motion to forward this item to the
March 23, 2010 Board meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Cohen

seconded

the

Recommended Actions

Award Contract to supply two (2) 45’ mall shuttle buses to accommodate the 16th
Street Mall extension resulting from the DUS reconfiguration project – Mike Gil,
Acting Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations introduced this action. These
will be test buses for the extension of the 16th Street Mall. It will enable staff to
look to the future when they need to order 36 buses to replace the mall fleet. This
bus has a turbine engine. Eleven RFPs were sent out and only three companies
responded and one did not meet Federal Standards. DesignLine was chosen and
they have buses of this type in operation in several cities.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to DesignLine
USA, LLC for the purchase of two (2) 45’ mall shuttle buses to accommodate RTD
16th Street Mall shuttle service with the reconfigured Denver Union Station. The
total cost for the two (2) bus purchase is $1,300,000.
Motion:

Director Bagley made a motion to
forward this item to the March 23,
2010 Board meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Director Pulliam had a question about the fueling system on the bus and was
concerned that the bus is not electric and using diesel fuel, he wanted to know
why we weren’t testing a bus from each company. Dean Shaklee, General
Superintendent, Maintenance said the bus chosen is a hybrid that runs on a turbine
engine that uses diesel fuel. It exceeds 2010 emissions and the engine does not
run all the time. This manufacturer has been in business for twelve years and has
made hundreds of buses. They have a contract for over one hundred buses for
New York City’s transit system. The other manufacturer, Proterra, has never built
anything longer than a 35’ coach. They only have three buses in operation and two
out of three are hydrogen buses. They have never built a hybrid bus which is why
staff felt more comfortable with DesignLine.
Director Daly asked if there was a disadvantage to not having a rear window. Mr.
Shaklee spoke that they have a big concern and they were going to see if the

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on March 9, 2010
Page 3 of 7
design could be modified. They said it is not feasible at this time. Mr. Shaklee
shared this is his biggest concern as passengers use the back window to see what
is going on behind them. Mr. Gil said patrons are often facing sideways or
backwards on the bus so the rear window is essential for orientation.
Director Tobiassen had a list of questions:
1. Is this a new technology to RTD – Yes.
2. Will it require retraining for staff – Yes.
3. What is the warranty? – Mr. Shaklee said it depends on the components, the
batteries are guaranteed for a longer period of time.
4. What type of battery system is it? Staff responded that they would get back
with Director Tobiassen on this, it’s a new type of battery system.
5. Will special equipment be required for maintenance of the turbine? – No
special equipment required but special training would be required as staff
would have that no matter what type of bus is purchased.
6. Are there operational savings to using this type of bus? – Mr. Shaklee felt
there would be substantial savings over the current mall bus due to the
compressed natural gas. The new bus will run on diesel and use a lot less
gas.
7. What is the noise level? Mr. Shaklee said it should be comparable to existing
mall bus. General Manager Washington added that these are prototypes and
staff will bring back to the Board on a quarterly basis a comparison versus
current mall shuttle.
Director Bagley wanted to know how are these buses going to be used in NYC?
Mr. Shaklee responded that they will be used for regular day-to-day transit
service. Will there be more emissions than we currently have with compressed
natural gas? Mr. Shaklee said the turbine will not run all the time, in the current
mall bus, the compressed natural gas engine runs all the time. It should be less
pollution as the turbine will only run a few minutes an hour to charge the
battery system. When the engine is running, it surpasses the 2010 emission
standard. The battery system will propel the bus down the street.
Director Tobiassen asked for a website or a pamphlet that he could see for
reference and staff will provide this to him.
Director McMullen wanted to know if the buses are equipped with air
conditioning. Mr. Shaklee shared that the District is not putting a/c in the
specifications but we might try putting a/c into one of them to see how they
operate.
Vote on Motion:
The motion passed unanimously.



Local Match for Hop Buses – Bruce Abel spoke to this action item. This is a
housekeeping item. We put money into the capital budget to allow us to
essentially bank our portion of the local share for replacement vehicles that are
used in HOP shuttle bus service. This action is to transfer the money from the
capital account to the operating account to pay for the buses.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on March 9, 2010
Page 4 of 7
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee to approve
the transfer of $374,050 HOP vehicle replacement funds from the capital
budget to the expense budget to accommodate the local share payment to
Special Transit.



Motion:

Director Christopher made a
motion to forward this item to the
March 23, 2010 Board meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Bagley

seconded

the

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments – Scott Reed brought
this item forward to the Committee.
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD
Board of Directors appoint two members to the Citizens Advisory Committee to
fill vacancies created by resignation.
Motion:

Director Cohen made a motion to
forward this item to the March 23,
2010 Board meeting agenda.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Pulliam

seconded

the

III. Parking Management – Dave Genova and Errol Stevens gave this presentation. A copy
of this presentation is available in the Operations and Customer Services Meeting Minute
Notebook. Mr. Stevens gave a brief overview of the parking management program
history. The biggest change is that now Pine Junction is below the data line for needing
to be managed. Staff would like to make a modification to the program and defer both
Pine Junction and El Rancho until it is financially feasible to do the entire corridor.
System wide, parking has declined pretty evenly between managed and non-managed
parking sites.
Does fee-based Parking Management have a negative impact on ridership at managed
facilities? Staff did a side by side comparison of ridership system wide and ridership on
routes that serve managed facilities. The result does not suggest a significant negative
impact on ridership at managed facilities.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on March 9, 2010
Page 5 of 7
Expenses are running about 54% of projections but cost recovery is running about 33%
of projections.
Reserved parking is producing only 6% of projections (Littleton
Downtown is sold out (54 spaces)). Sales are slightly up in the last couple of months.
The out of District revenue is about 35% due to the difficulty implementing this
program. Extended parking is at 60% of projections.
Some of the current issues – trying to get credit card certification and then installation in
the field in the next few weeks for the pay stations. Enhancements needed to the pay
stations will be moved along once there is an amendment to the original contract with
Central Parking.
Director Brohl met with Mr. Genova and Mr. Stevens last week. The same evaluation
needs to be used to add and remove parking lots from the program. The biggest lesson
learned is not to include isolated spots. The whole line needs to be either in or out.
Chair Brohl thanked Mr. Genova and Mr. Stevens for their hard work.
Director Tobiassen said getting Pine Junction out makes sense. When we are comparing
managed parking versus unmanaged parking, the better statistic might be people that are
actually paying the fee versus everybody.
Director Tobiassen had a concern about the pay stations at Nine Mile. The pay station is
over by light rail platform and there are people going to DIA that have to walk a long
way. Mr. Stevens responded that a second pay station is going to be added near the
buses. Also the lighting is going to be improved. They have installed a light fixture in
the canopy to illuminate pay station and we plan to universalize that.
Several Committee members commended staff on the presentation.
Director O’Boyle wasn’t sure he understood the logic regarding removing Pine Junction
from the program. Mr. Stevens said it just doesn’t make sense to do parking
management isolated like Pine Junction is. Director O’Boyle shared that he does not like
the idea of removing Pine Junction from the program, this is not consistent. Mr. Stevens
said that revenue is not keeping up with projections and then the operating costs
become an issue.
Director Christopher had two questions: 1. Broomfield park-n-Ride is in the parking
management program. When we switch over to the structure at Broomfield Event center
will that be a managed parking facility? Mr. Stevens said that we intend to slide it over
and we are working with City of Broomfield on how to share this facility. 2 – What is
the length of the contract we have with Central Parking? The implementation contract is
one year with 2, two year options. The amendment would carry the contract into
summer to get all the issues worked out so before we add additional years. Director
Christopher wanted to know how Central’s attitude was toward the program. Mr.
Stevens felt it was a very good attitude. They want the program to be commercially
feasible and they are committed to hanging in there as long as possible.
Director Daly thanked Mr. Genova and Mr. Stevens for the good meeting at their data
and how carefully they are looking at each park-n-Ride in the program. He wanted to
know if the program will be financially viable. Mr. Stevens shared that analysis done off

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on March 9, 2010
Page 6 of 7
of current data show that if we could capture all the revenue that’s there in 8-10 months
there could be a break even point. This is a very difficult program to implement and
manage as there are no models out there. We are still working out the kinks.
Director Malpiede had a question about underused facilities and how are you getting the
information out? Mr. Stevens replied that RTD uses the website for a lot of information
on parking and facilities.
Chair Brohl talked about how the Board does occasionally re-evaluate things as needed
and really listens to their constituents. She wanted to know if any Board action was
needed at this time. General Manager Washington responded that no board action is
needed. The Board will receive another update in six months. Updates can come back
on a quarterly basis if that would be better for the Board. Chair Brohl wanted to know if
Pine Junction will be removed from the parking management program soon and Mr.
Genova responded that it will probably be removed at the end of the month.
Director O’Boyle has been in touch with a business at one of our potential TODs and
wanted to know if parking was a problem? Lincoln Station is a managed facility and
parking outside the facility in front of the local businesses is a way for out of District
users to avoid parking charge. Can we help the businesses? Mr. Genova said we work
with the surrounding property owners and municipalities and help them with parking
issues. We strive to be a good neighbor. Mr. Stevens has a meeting with the property
owners adjacent to Lincoln Station about parking issues this week.
IV. Fare Evasion Fine Rate Structure – Dave Genova spoke to this item. Denver Court and
prosecutors have recently noticed that the current RTD fine schedule for fare evasion
included built-in court costs that should only be added by the court later if appropriate.
Staff would like to change the fine structure to one warning and two fines levels instead
of one warning and four fines levels.
Director Tobiassen wanted to know how many warnings we are writing a year. Bob
Mickelson, Coordinator, Fare Inspection said the district issued 32,000 warnings and
7,100 citations in 2009.
V. Credit Card Update – Bruce Abel and Terry Howerter gave this update and it had two
components: 1) pass vending machines selling tickets 2) retrofit of southeast corridor
to use credit cards.
Pass Vending Machines - Market Street/Civic Center Station the machines had issues
and were taken out of service. We had security breaches at those machines and we are
working with vendor to get problems corrected and anticipate them coming back online
in May/June 2010. One machine will be moved to Boulder so that all major bus stations
will have credit card capability.
Retrofit of Southeast Corridor - Mr. Abel said the District is looking to put in credit card
sales capability at the existing TVMs. The TVMs are already fiber equipped and ready to
go. This would be a Scheidt Bachman sole source as it is proprietary system. IT has
assigned a project manager, John Stark. The statement of work is being developed and
we received a proposal from Scheidt Bachman in December of 2009. RTD is trying to

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on March 9, 2010
Page 7 of 7
get an updated proposal from them and looking to add credit card clearing into this
project. We hope to have a scope of work soon.
The next TVM procurement will be for the West Corridor and it will include credit card
capability.
Director Tobiassen asked that the District try to stay away from proprietary systems so
we don’t have to be tied to one contractor.
Director Bagley asked about the Southwest corridor. The Southwest corridor TVMs are
not equipped with fiber. Staff has talked about the options of fiber and wireless on
Southwest corridor. Fiber will be very expensive so wireless is the probable option
although no decision has been made yet. Director Bagley would like to see an evaluation
of what it would take to do the southwest corridor with WiFi to enable credit card
purchases.
VI. Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.
VII. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Operations and Customer Services Committee
will be April 13, 2010.
VIII. Adjourn to Financial Administration Committee – Hearing no objection, Committee Chair
Brohl adjourned to the Financial Administration Committee at 7:47 p.m.

