Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Secretary – Michael Guzman, District C
Treasurer – Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Bobby Dishell, District D
Ian Harwick, District L
Jaime Lewis, District A

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K

MINUTES
Operations Safety and Security Committee
Wednesday, June 12, 2024
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM

Operations, Safety, and Security Committee
Chaired by Troy Whitmore

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Whitmore called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Julien Bouquet
Director, District G
Remote
Ian Harwick
Director, District L
Remote

Arrived
5:31 PM
5:31 PM

Jaime Lewis
JoyAnn Ruscha

Director, District A
Director, District B

Remote
Remote

5:31 PM
5:32 PM

Marjorie Sloan
Troy Whitmore
Paul Rosenthal

Director, District M
Director, District K
Director, District E

Remote
Remote
Absent

5:31 PM
5:31 PM

Directors Broom, Catlin, and Guzman were also in attendance.
In addition to Directors and senior staff, there were 13 participants in attendance.

B. Public Comment
•
•
•
•

Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit
Joe Meyer
Alejandra Castañeda (email)
Greater Denver Transit (email)
Page 1 of 3

C. Information from External Entities
None.

D. Recommended Actions

•

“Group 33” Fixed-Route Service Contract
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to enter into a contract with Transdev Services Inc. for the
provision of fixed-route services as described herein. This contract is for
three years, with two one-year options for a total of five years, at a total
not-to-exceed cost of $186,603,968. Additionally, RTD will reimburse the
contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be $16,101,761
over five years. The total five-year not-to-exceed cost for services and fuel is
$202,705,729.
Motion:

Director Lewis made the motion to move this
item to the June 25, 2024 Board Meeting.
Director Sloan seconded the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Jaime Lewis, Director, District A
Marjorie Sloan, Director, District M
Bouquet, Harwick, Lewis, Ruscha, Sloan, Whitmore
Paul Rosenthal

Committee Chair Whitmore declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

•

Access-on-Demand - Additional Funding
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to designate additional funding for the Access-on-Demand program
in an amount not to exceed $8,600.000.
Motion:

Director Sloan made the motion to move this
item to the June 25, 2024 Board Meeting.
Director Bouquet seconded the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Marjorie Sloan, Director, District M
Julien Bouquet, Marjorie Sloan
Bouquet, Harwick, Lewis, Ruscha, Sloan, Whitmore
Paul Rosenthal
Page 2 of 3

Committee Chair Whitmore declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

E. Discussion Items

•

Transit Police Department Update
Presented by Dr. Joel Fitzgerald, Chief of Police and Emergency Management.

F. Other Matters
Directors Ruscha and Harwick presented their work regarding Vision Zero.
Directors Lewis, Ruscha, Stuart Summers, Chief Communications Officer, and Dave
Jensen, Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations, also spoke.

G. Next Meeting Date: Wednesday, July 17, 2024
H. Adjourn
Committee Chair Whitmore adjourned the meeting at 8:26 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Page 3 of 3

From:

Sent:

Cc:

Subject:
Attachments:

Jack Kroll
Monday, June 10, 2024 4:11 PM
JoyAnn Ruscha; Debra Johnson; Fred Worthen; Melanie Snyder
Fwd: Vision Zero Preliminary Report
RTD Vision Zero Coalition-PreliminaryReport_OSS_6.12.24.Print_Version.pdf; VZ­
Components-Fact-Sheet.pdf; VZ-Core Elements-Snapshot.pdf

Good afternoon, Directors-Please see the below and the associated attachments from Director Ruscha who asked that these be
sent along in advance of Wednesday's Operations, Safety, and Security Committee meeting.
She is still intending to send to the Board Office for distribution to you all a presentation she is planning
to share at the Committee's meeting later this week.
Best,
Jack Kroll

Executive Manager
Board Office
he I his I him
o. 303.299.2307

We make lives better through connections.

From: JoyAnn Ruscha <JoyAnn.Ruscha@rtd-denver.com>
Sent: Monday, June 10, 2024 3:11 :16 PM
To: Jack Kroll <Jack.Kroll@rtd-denver.com>; Board Office <board.office@rtd-denver.com>
Cc: Ian Harwick <lan.Harwick@rtd-denver.com>; Debra Johnson <debra.johnson@rtd-denver.com>; Fred
Worthen <fred.worthen@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: Vision Zero Preliminary Report

Hi team,
Would you mind sending this to the BoD as soon as you can? This email contains all of the information
a Director would need to learn more about our stakeholder work, the Safe Systems approach to
transportation safety, and why RTD should join the Vision Zero Communities network.
As discussed, I've attached:
•

A single document ('RTD Vision Zero Coalition - Preliminary Recs') with background information,
the stakeholder process, resource links, Board Action items for consideration (p5), and the
preliminary recommendations for future Vision Zero planning considerations (p6-9).
1

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

Director JoyAnn Ruscha, joyann.ruscha@rtd-denver.com
Director Ian Harwick, ian.harwick@rtd-denver.com

WHY CONVENE A VISION ZERO STAKEHOLDER GROUP?
Statement of Purpose (Adopted by the Coalition in September 2023)
Vision Zero community advocates have long pointed out that public transportation is an
essential tool in achieving zero deaths and serious injuries on our streets. According to
VZN, “[c]ities with public transit systems keep cars off the road by providing options to
get around. This is especially helpful for those considered high-risk drivers, including
very new drivers, older drivers and impaired drivers. This translates to safer conditions
for all road users, even those who are not riding public transit, as their risk of being
injured by another driver is reduced when more people use transit.”
Moreover, according to an analysis by the American Public Transportation Association
(APTA), traffic fatality rates can decrease by 10%-40% when we prioritize transit and
accessible, pedestrian-friendly infrastructure.1
As Vision Zero community advocates, transit riders, and Regional Transportation District
(RTD) directors who are passionate about equitable transportation and safe streets, we
formed the RTD Vision Zero Coalition.
We believe every jurisdiction that is part of our transportation network has a duty to
help end preventable traffic crashes. We believe that RTD–Colorado’s largest
regional transportation agency–has a responsibility to incorporate

1

“Public Transit Is Key Strategy in Advancing Vision Zero, Eliminating Traffic Fatalities,” American
Public Transit Association. August 2018. PDF link

1

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

comprehensive Vision Zero strategies, principles, and policies in every area of
planning and implementation.
Through a series of workshops and small-group meetings from fall 2023 to spring 2024,
the Coalition will create a Vision Zero framework for the consideration of
adoption by the RTD Board of Directors and the General Manager and CEO.

"Investing in transit is investing in Vision Zero. It is an investment in saving lives."
STAKEHOLDER WORK
Statement of Work (Adopted by the Coalition in October 2023)
●

Collaborate and draft concrete recommendations for adoption by RTD that would
meaningfully advance the goal of Vision Zero
Draft completed 2/6/24 and sent to RTD 2/15; Survey Results & Final Report due early July

● Draft Vision Zero resolution/s for the consideration of the Board of Directors,
which is the policy-setting body of RTD
Discussion Item Before Safety, Security, and Operations Committee on 6/12/24; Action Item
scheduled for July following additional outreach

Over 36 participants joined an intensive stakeholder process. The Coalition met as a
whole nine times between October 10th and January 30th, with other individual
stakeholder meetings held as necessary. Over 60 hours of meetings were logged prior
to submitting preliminary recommendations to RTD in February.
Participants
● Director JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

● Denver Bicycle Lobby

● Director Ian Harwick, District L

● Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition

● Director Michael Guzman, District C

● Greater Denver Transit

● Director Jaime Lewis, District A

● RTD Riders Alliance

● Denver Streets Partnership

● ATU Local 101

● Pedestrian Dignity

● Independent riders
2

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

Visiting Subject Matter Experts
In addition to reading existing research materials and looking into local crash and
incident data, the Coalition also liaised with Denver Department of Transportation and
Infrastructure and DRCOG for additional subject matter expertise in planning.
Additionally, Stuart Summers & Betsy Morrison served as agency liaisons from RTD.
Working Groups
In addition to meeting as a whole, the Coalition had two breakout policy groups.
•

Track 1 - Pedestrian Dignity & Multimodal Infrastructure: Bus stop
access for people walking, rolling or cycling (including ADA, location, and
amenities); pedestrian & bicycle infrastructure within a one-mile radius including sidewalks/rollways, curb cuts/ramps and pedestrian signals; reducing
car trips (modal shift), TOD, etc.

•

Track 2 - Rail & Bus Safety: Rail stations, transit facility, Park-n-Ride and
maintenance facility site design, preventing rail deaths and injuries (including
death by suicide), operator training and support, accident / incident reporting,
regulatory oversight, track worker safety, etc.

DRAFTING GUIDELINES (Adopted by the Coalition in October 2022)
Recommendations must have a meaningful relationship to Vision Zero and
relate to Vision Zero Network principles.
● It is never ethically acceptable that people are killed or seriously injured when
moving within the road transport system (this includes public transit)
● Rather than placing the blame of an imperfect system on individuals, the
Coalition will shift the focus towards a systemic approach, emphasizing human
dignity and safe streets
1

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

● Our ideas will not be limited by anticipated costs - there’s no price on a human
life
Recommendations are created through an intersectional lens.
● We center disability access, language justice, and racial justice
● The transit workforce is at the forefront of our efforts to end traffic violence and
is a key partner in all Vision Zero planning
Recommendations are ethics-based, but still actionable by RTD.
● Recognizes that RTD is also a systems designer and thus a responsible agency
for traffic safety
● Offers solutions that can be implemented by RTD (or under joint jurisdiction)
● Compels both infrastructure and systems to prevent incidents that cause harm
● Validates that most people who use transit begin their journey as pedestrians
● Provides dignified solutions for all people who interact with the transit system
● Fosters an open and transparent safety culture that emphasizes innovation over
compliance monitoring
● Respects the role of the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee (JLMSC)

2

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

RTD's Actionable Vision Zero Plan:

A Clear Path to Safer Public Transit & Safer Streets for All
(Adopted 2/6/24 and revised for clarity on 2/28/24 and 6/10/24)

CREATE A VISION ZERO COMMUNITY (Board Action)
Make a Public Commitment to Vision Zero
● Lead the nation and hire a dedicated leader to spearhead plan development,
implementation, and continuous improvement.
Develop a Comprehensive Vision Zero Plan - with KPIs
● Include the community and the BoD - with riders who are most impacted at the
forefront.
○ In planning and decision-making, RTD should center disability access,
language justice, and racial justice.
● Establish clear leadership roles, governance structures, and performance metrics
aligned with RTD's Strategic Plan. Incorporate Vision Zero into fiscal policy and
budget planning.
○ Regularly communicate with the Board and public on goals - including
progress and challenges.
● Key Benchmark: Obtain recognition from the Vision Zero Network as a
Vision Zero Community
INCORPORATE A SYSTEMS APPROACH TO SAFETY CULTURE & STRATEGIC PLANNING
Integrate Vision Zero into all Aspects of RTD
● Foster a safety-first culture where employees feel empowered to report issues,
learn from mistakes, and actively contribute to safety improvements.
● Don’t place blame on staff or the public - embrace smarter design, transparency,
and systems redundancy instead
○ “Human error” is usually a causal factor - not the root cause.
● Challenge everyone by asking, “What can I/we/you do to save lives?”
Proactively Collect Data, Identify the Risks, & Work on Solutions
● Do not wait for risks to rise to the level of CAPs and/or result in death or major
injury before taking action.
3

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

RECCOMENDATIONS FOR VISION ZERO PLANNING
Rail Safety & Grade Crossings
● Conduct a comprehensive analysis for immediate action: Identify all atgrade crossings and prioritize the top 20% with highest incident/accident rates
and identify measures to mitigate, reduce, or eliminate risks.
● Address conflicts at high-risk intersections: Analyze crash data to identify
and eliminate likely causes of intersection conflicts between light rail trains and
turning vehicles, prioritizing high-risk areas like Stout Street and focusing on
signaling, including the use of blank-out signs. (More than ⅓ of LRV accidents
are on or at Stout and California Streets.)
● Implement safety countermeasures for pedestrians: Install mini-gate
arms, flashing lights, and pavement markings at prioritized crossings to enhance
pedestrian visibility and protection.
● Advocate for safety improvements with local municipalities: Collaborate
on infrastructure improvements like raised crosswalks, protected turn lanes, and
signal timing adjustments at high-risk intersections.
Enhanced Communication and Accessibility
● Improve wayfinding across modes: Collaborate with other transportation
providers to create seamless, multi-modal wayfinding signage and information
systems.
● Upgrade automated stop announcements (ASAs): Implement clear, highquality voice recordings and integrate special announcements like elevator
outages for improved passenger awareness.
● Language Access: Ensure all announcements, signage, and wayfinding
information are available in English and Spanish at minimum, with plans to
expand to additional languages as needed.
● Develop SOPs for Equitable Access: Create standardized operating
procedures (SOPs) for clear and consistent communication across all stations,
promoting equity and inclusivity.
● Standardize pedestrian crossings and signage: Implement consistent
design and clear messaging across all stations, adhering to commuter rail
standards and utilizing universally understood symbols.
● MUTCD: Ensure that all signage is MUTCD-compliant where applicable.
● ADA: Conduct an internal ADA review and empower our advisory committees in
decision-making; have joint advisory meetings with O&S
4

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

First / Last Mile & Modal Shift
● Partner with Lyft: Implement a first/last-mile program offering discounted Lyft
rides to connect passengers to and from RTD stations, encouraging modal shift.
(Subject to ADA compliance.)
● Park-n-Rides: Update all Park-n-Ride designs to incorporate “kiss n ride” (drop
off) areas; eliminate parking minimums or standards
● Bike-friendly: Create minimum bike storage standards
TOD & Land Use
● Evaluate all PnRs and assess for TOD use: Encourage development on
unused lots/land; consider a pilot for free parking at certain PnRs like CDOT (to
encourage carpool)
● Housing: Lobby the legislature to permit RTD to sell or lease land for less than
its assessed value for affordable housing developers; update current TOD policy
to encourage sale of RTD land for the purpose of dense, walkable housing
development
Accessible & Safe Pedestrian Routes
● Address local infrastructure gaps: Partner with municipalities to improve
pedestrian access to stations (particularly in areas adjacent to Peoria Station) as well as station design itself - focusing on sidewalk connections, lighting, and
signage. Use data-driven insights for targeted interventions.
● Adopt DRCOG Vision Zero Guidelines, i.e.:
○ For signalized intersections, place stops at the far side. (Far-side bus stops
are located after an intersection, allowing the vehicle to pass through the
intersection before stopping for the passenger loading and unloading a
bus.)
○ For non-signalized intersections, place bus stops and pedestrian crossings
in close proximity (‘co-locate’) to allow people riding transit to cross the
street safely
● Bus stop study: Include ADA considerations, lighting, and adjacent
infrastructure in RTD’s bus stop amenities study
● Create a special fund for bus stop & pedestrian access improvements,
focusing on equity
Streamlined Information Access and Reporting

5

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

● Reduce clicks/steps: Design user-friendly online and digital display interfaces
for easy access to safety information, real-time updates, and service alerts.
● Maximize digital displays: Utilize digital displays effectively to communicate
real-time safety information, wayfinding instructions, and mental health
resources in multiple languages.
● Establish a safety reporting platform: Implement a user-friendly platform
dedicated to reporting safety and maintenance concerns (i.e., risks of
slips/trips/falls) separate from Transit Watch - and ensure timely responses.
Culture of Safety and Employee Well-being
● Implement (or emphasize) whistleblower protections: Foster a culture of
safety and open communication by protecting employees who report potential
hazards or safety concerns.
● Create a mistake-learning mechanism: Establish safe spaces for employees
to discuss mistakes, share lessons learned, and contribute to continuous safety
improvement processes.
● Labor: Empower represented employees - both in the JLMSC and in practice
Mental Health Support, Training, & Suicide Prevention
● Data-driven interventions: Evaluate suicide-by-rail data for patterns and
implement countermeasures accordingly
● Use smart(er) technology: Assess the feasibility and effectiveness of using
LIDAR/RADAR, AI, or other technology at high-accident grade crossings,
considering both general safety and suicide prevention implications.
● Partner with mental health experts: Collaborate with mental health
professionals to review policies, procedures, and training materials and ensure
they are comprehensive and effective.
● Evaluate and enhance existing resources: Assess the effectiveness of
existing mental health information materials (small cards) and implement
improvements based on feedback and best practices.
● System-wide mental health information: Strategically place mental health
information and resources across the entire RTD system, leveraging existing
advertising space and digital displays.
● Expand and standardize training: Ensure all RTD staff and contractors
receive consistent and comprehensive mental health training, including suicide
prevention and crisis intervention techniques.
6

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

● Employee support and feedback: Regularly assess staff perceptions of RTD's
response protocols to mental health incidents and offer opportunities for
feedback and improvement.
● Learn from best practices: Actively seek out and implement successful mental
health support and training programs from other transit agencies and rail
operators.
Additional Notes
● Explore partnerships with organizations like STAR/24-hour aid center and RTD's
mental health outreach staff to provide additional mental health support
● Further investigate the feasibility of installing camera and LIDAR/RADAR
technology on the front of LR
● Identify funding sources to advance Vision Zero (and pursue aggressively)
● To increase modal shift, RTD should set benchmarks and KPIs to reduce barriers
to transit access (e.g., make it easier to buy a pass, enroll in LiVE, etc.)
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
Vision Zero in Colorado
● CDOT Launches Moving Towards Zero Deaths via CDOT
● DRCOG Regional Vision Zero
● DRCOG Taking Action on Vision Zero Guide (pdf)
● Vision Zero at Denver Streets Partnership
● Boulder Vision Zero Action Plan
● City & County of Denver Vision Zero
Safe Systems Planning
•

Resource Library via Vision Zero Network

•

What is a Safe Systems Approach? via USDOT

7

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

Safety Culture & Worker Safety in Transportation
•

Safety Culture via US Federal Highway Administration

•

Safety Culture via European Union Agency for Railways

•

Working Together to Keep Railroad Workers Safe via US Dept of Labor

•

Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: Rail Transit Roadway Worker Protection via FTA
(pdf presentation)

8

9 Components of a Strong Vision Zero Commitment
Based on the experiences of early-adopter cities in the United States, these nine components have proven to be
an effective high-level framework for communities considering a Vision Zero commitment. While these are not
the only factors to consider, they are critical aspects to ensure a strong and lasting commitment to Vision Zero.

POLITICAL COMMITMENT

MULTI-DISCIPLINARY LEADERSHIP

The highest-ranking local officials (Mayor, City Council,
City Manager) make an official and public commitment
to a Vision Zero goal to achieve zero traffic fatalities
and severe injuries among all road users (including
people walking, biking, using transit,
and driving) within a set timeframe. This
should include passage of a local policy
laying out goals, timeline, stakeholders,
and a commitment to community
engagement, transparency, &
equitable outcomes.

An official city Vision Zero Taskforce (or Leadership
Committee) is created and charged with leading the
planning effort for Vision Zero. The Taskforce should
include, at a minimum, high-ranking representatives
from the Office of the Mayor, Police, Transportation
(or equivalent), and Public Health. Other departments
to involve include Planning, Fire, Emergency Services,
Public Works, District
Attorney, Office of Senior
Services, Disability, and
the School District.

ACTION PLAN

EQUITY

Vision Zero Action Plan (or
Strategy) is created within 1
year of initial commitment
and is implemented with clear
strategies, owners of each
strategy, interim targets,
timelines, & performance
measures.

City stakeholders commit to both
an equitable approach to Vision
Zero by establishing inclusive and
representative processes, as well
as equitable outcomes by ensuring
measurable benchmarks to provide
safe transportation
options for all road
users in all parts of
the city.

COOPERATION &
COLLABORATION

A commitment is
made to encourage
meaningful cooperation
and collaboration among relevant
governmental agencies & community
stakeholders to establish a
framework for multiple stakeholders
to set shared goals and focus on
coordination and accountability.

SYSTEMS-BASED APPROACH

DATA-DRIVEN

City leaders commit to and prioritize a systems-based
approach to Vision Zero — focusing on the built
environment, systems, and policies that influence
behavior — as well as adopting messaging that
emphasizes that these traffic losses are preventable.

City stakeholders commit to gather,
analyze, utilize, and share reliable data
to understand traffic safety issues and
prioritize resources based on evidence of
the greatest needs and impact.

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

TRANSPARENCY

Opportunities are created to invite meaningful
community engagement, such as select community
representation on the Taskforce, broader community
input through public meetings or
workshops, online surveys, and other
feedback opportunities.

The city’s process is transparent to city stakeholders
and the community, including regular
updates on the progress on the Action
Plan and performance measures, and a
yearly report (at minimum) to the local
governing board (e.g., City Council).

For more visit the Vision Zero Network at visionzeronetwork.org.
Questions or ideas? Contact leah@visionzeronetwork.org.

From:
Sent:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:

Jack Kroll
Tuesday, June 11, 2024 8:59 PM
Debra Johnson; Melanie Snyder; Fred Worthen
FW: Vision Zero Documents for OSS 6/11/24
VisionZero-OSS-6.12.24 Presentation.pdf

Good evening, DirectorsPlease see the attached presentation from Directors Ruscha and Harwick for tomorrow night's Operations, Safety,
and Security committee meeting. Due to timing of the when the Board Office needed to publish the packet for your
meeting, the item was not included on the agenda as a Discussion Item; however, it will likely arise during Other
Matters.
Best,
Jack
From: JoyAnn Ruscha <JoyAnn.Ruscha@rtd-denver.com>
Sent: Tuesday, June 11, 2024 8:02 PM
To: Board Office <board.office@rtd-denver.com>; Jack Kroll <Jack.Kroll@rtd-denver.com>
Cc: Debra Johnson <debra.johnson@rtd-denver.com>; Fred Worthen <fred.worthen@rtd-denver.com>; Ian Harwick
<lan.Harwick@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: Vision Zero Documents for OSS 6/11/24

Hello team,
All VZ docs for OSS on 6/12 are in a public-facing folder, which is nested under the main folder that
includes a Resource Library. I've also attached the Vision Zero presentation for OSS (which may be
further trimmed for time).

•
•
•
•
•

p4-7 - Intro to Vision Zero
p8 - 'Why RTD Should Adopt a Vision Zero Action Plan'
p10-13 - Explains the standard by which agencies create Vision Zero Plans
p20 - Future Board Action Item (Joining the Vision Zero Community!)
We will skip examples of actionable recommendations (p24-27) unless the Cmte wants to
continue
a Remember: Stakeholder recommendations do not replace the work that RTD would have
to do to create its own Action Plan

Thank you!
Kindly,
JoyAnn Ruscha
1

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

Vision Zero at RTD

A Proven, Ethics-Based Approach to Fostering a True Safety Culture

JoyAnn Ruscha

Director, District B
June 11, 2024

Ian Harwick

Director, District L

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

Agenda
▪

▪
▪
•

•
•

▪
June 11, 2024

2

Vision Zero
Traffic deaths and severe injuries are never acceptable.

June 11, 2024

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

What is Vision Zero?

Vision Zero is a strategy to eliminate traffic fatalities and severe injuries on the principle that
traffic deaths and severe injuries are never acceptable.

TRADITIONAL APPROACH

VISION ZERO

Traffic deaths are INEVITABLE

Traffic deaths are PREVENTABLE

Requires PERFECT human behavior

Integrates HUMAN BEHAVIOR into approach

Should prevent COLLISIONS

Prevent FATAL & SEVERE CRASHES

Focus on INDIVIDUAL responsibility

Takes a SYSTEMS approach

Saving lives is EXPENSIVE

Saving lives is NOT EXPENSIVE

Vision Zero utilizes a Safe Systems approach, which is endorsed by the FHWA (Federal Highway
Administration) and the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE).
June 11, 2024

4

Safe Systems in Transportation
•

•
The Safe System Approach

•

requires a culture that
places safety first and
foremost in road system

investment decisions.
Federal Highway Administration

June 11, 2024

5

Vision Zero as Public Health Policy

June 11, 2024

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

Source: Vision Zero Network

6

Vision Zero Agency Partners

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪

“Traffic-related deaths and

▪

severe injuries are a critical and
preventable public health
epidemic and social equity issue

▪

in the metropolitan Denver
area. DRCOG, its member

▪

governments and its partner

•
•

agencies are responsible for
reducing crashes through safe
systems.”
Taking Action on Regional Vision Zero

June 11, 2024

7

Why RTD Should Adopt a Vision Zero Action Plan
▪ Public transportation is a key tool in achieving Vision Zero
• Traffic fatality rates can decrease by 10%-40% by prioritizing transit and accessible pedestrian-friendly
infrastructure (via APTA)

▪ Public transportation is part of the traffic network
• Be it a dedicated ROW or a bus stop, those who use interact with RTD are impacted by our decisions

▪ Communities need us!
• Partner agencies can’t be successful in their Vision Zero Plans if we aren’t active partners in the effort.

▪ We have an ethical responsibility to take advantage of our unique role in local transit
• As an independent transit agency, we are poised to lead the nation (and industry) in Vision Zero!
Remember: A third of RTD customers begin their transit journey as pedestrians!
June 11, 2024

8

Core Elements of Vision
Zero Communities

June 11, 2024

Transfer of Vision Zero Principles & Core
Elements would be the same at RTD

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

Application may be unique, but Safe Systems still apply

June 11, 2024
10

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

Public, High-Level,
and Ongoing
Commitment

Key elected officials & agencies (including transportation) publicly commit to a
goal of eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries. Partners continually
engage via cross-agency/jurisdictional collaboration.

Authentic
Engagement

Meaningful and accessible community engagement toward Vision Zero strategy
and implementation is employed—with a focus on equity.

Strategic Planning

A Vision Zero Action Plan is developed, with explicit goals and measurable
strategies with clear timelines. It also identifies responsible stakeholders.

Project Delivery

Decision-makers and system designers advance projects and policies for safe,
equitable multimodal travel by securing funding and implementing projects,
prioritizing roadways with the most pressing safety issues.

June 11, 2024

11

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

Complete Streets
for All

Complete streets are streets designed and operated to enable safe use and
support mobility for all users—such as bike lanes, sidewalks, bus-only lanes,
etc. These concepts are integrated into planning.

Context-Appropriate
Speeds

Travel speeds are set and managed to achieve safe conditions for the
specific roadway context and to protect all roadway users, particularly those
most at-risk in crashes. Proven speed management policies and practices are
prioritized to reach this goal.

Vision Zero prioritizes safe travel of people over expeditious travel of motor vehicles.

June 11, 2024

12

Equity-Focused
Analysis and
Programs

Commitment is made to an equitable approach and outcomes, including
prioritizing engagement & investments in under-served communities.

Proactive,
Systemic Planning

A proactive, systems-based approach to safety is used to identify and
address top risk factors and mitigate potential crashes and crash severity.

Responsive,
Hot Spot Planning

A map of the community’s fatal and serious injury crash locations is
developed, regularly updated, and used to guide priority actions and funding.

Comprehensive
Evaluation and
Adjustments

Routine evaluation of the performance of all safety interventions is made public
and shared with decision makers to inform priorities, budgets, and updates to
the Vision Zero Action Plan.

June 11, 2024

13

Stakeholder
Engagement

June 11, 2024

Community Engagement

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪ Over 36 participants
• Met as a whole nine times between October 10th and January 30th, with other individual
stakeholder meetings held as necessary

• Over 60 hours of meetings were logged prior to submitting preliminary recommendations to
RTD in February

▪ Additional engagement (including RTD advisory committees) will be done before any
Actions are brought before the Board

June 11, 2024

15

Summary of Principles

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪ As those who have authority to effectuate almost all areas of policy and planning, the Board and
GM/CEO are jointly and primarily responsible for safety KPIs related to those interacting with RTD

services, assets, or within our jurisdiction

• Where RTD does not have jurisdictional authority but operates a service, RTD should work
with said jurisdiction/s to reduce, mitigate, or eliminate safety risks

• Systems Approach should be emphasized over assuming “human error" is a root cause of an
incident or accident

▪ Vision Zero must be part of strategic planning (which includes short, medium, and long-term
budgeting)
June 11, 2024

16

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪ Track 1: Pedestrian Dignity & Multimodal Infrastructure
• Bus stop access for people walking, rolling or cycling (including ADA, location, and amenities); pedestrian
& bicycle infrastructure within a one-mile radius - including sidewalks/rollways, curb cuts/ramps and
pedestrian signals; reducing car trips (modal shift), TOD, etc.

▪ Track 2: Rail & Bus Safety
• Rail stations, transit facility, Park-n-Ride and maintenance facility site design, preventing rail deaths and
injuries (including death by suicide), operator training and support, accident / incident reporting,
regulatory oversight, worker safety, etc.

June 11, 2024

17

Drafting Guidelines

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪ Recommendations must meaningfully relate to Vision Zero Network principles

▪ Recommendations are created through an intersectional lens
• We center disability access, language justice, and racial justice
• The transit workforce is at the forefront of our efforts and is a key partner in all Vision Zero planning

June 11, 2024

18

Drafting Guidelines

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪ Recommendations are ethics-based, but still actionable by RTD
• Recognizes that RTD is also a systems designer and thus a responsible agency for traffic safety
• Offers solutions that can be implemented by RTD (or under joint jurisdiction)
▸Compels both infrastructure and systems to prevent incidents that cause harm

• Validates that most people who use transit begin their journey as pedestrians
▸Provides dignified solutions for all people who interact with the transit system

• Fosters an open and transparent safety culture that emphasizes innovation over compliance monitoring
▸Respects the role of the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee (JLMSC)

June 11, 2024

19

For Board Action: Leadership and Commitment
▪ RTD makes a public commitment to Vision Zero
• Plan prioritizes the safety of all riders - with a focus on disability access, language justice, and racial equity
• Identified Benchmark: Hire a dedicated Director of Vision Zero to lead plan development and implementation

▪ RTD defines roles and performance metrics to track progress and stay accountable
• Vision Zero is incorporated to RTD’s strategic plan/s, budgeting, and fiscal policy
• Identified Benchmark: Obtain recognition from the Vision Zero Network as a Vision Zero Community

▪ RTD engages in regular, transparent communication and continuous collaboration
• Meaningful community engagement, with stakeholders informed of goals, achievements, and any challenges
June 11, 2024

20

For Action: Fostering Safety Culture

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪ Foster a safety-first culture where employees feel empowered to report issues, learn
from mistakes, and actively contribute to safety improvements

• Don’t place blame on staff or the public - embrace smarter design, transparency, and systems redundancy
instead

▪ “Human error” is usually a causal factor - not the root cause
• Challenge everyone by asking, “What can I/we/you do to save lives/prevent serious injury?”

▪ Proactively Collect Data, Identify the Risks, & Work on Solutions
• Do not wait for risks to rise to the level of CAPs and/or result in death or major injury before taking action.
June 11, 2024

21

Vision Zero Plan: Recommendations

bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪ 40+ action items the agency could take to advance Vision
Zero, either separately or in its own plan

▪ Recs are in the Report submitted to the Board and can be
found at bit.ly/RTDVisionZeroDocs

▪ Does not take the place of community engagement that
RTD needs to do (but it can be seen as a “running head
start”)

June 11, 2024

22

Stakeholder
Reccomendations

June 11, 2024

Recommendations – Examples – Rail Safety
▪ Address conflicts at intersections between light rail trains and turning vehicles
• Analyze data and identify solutions, prioritizing known high-risk areas like Stout Street and Welton
Corridor.

▪ Implement safety countermeasures for pedestrians in the right—of-way
• Install mini-gate arms, flashing lights, and pavement markings at prioritized crossings to enhance
pedestrian visibility and protection.

▪ Invest in smart(er) technology (including seeking funding)
• Assess the feasibility and effectiveness of using LIDAR/RADAR, AI, or other technology at high-accident
grade crossings, considering both general safety and suicide prevention implications.
June 11, 2024

24

Recommendations – Examples – Communications
▪ Invest in essential upgrades
• Upgrading automated announcements, ensuring multilingual signage and information,
standardizing pedestrian crossings, and conducting a comprehensive ADA review will
contribute to enhancing communication and accessibility for all riders.

▪ Develop SOPs for Equitable Access
• Create standardized operating procedures (SOPs) for clear and consistent communication
across all stations, promoting equity and inclusivity

June 11, 2024

25

Recommendations – Examples – Planning
▪ Address local infrastructure gaps by partnering with municipalities.
• Improve pedestrian access to stations (particularly in areas adjacent to Peoria Station) - as
well as station design itself - focusing on sidewalk connections, lighting, and signage.

▪ Adopt DRCOG Vision Zero Guidelines, i.e.:
• For signalized intersections, place stops at the far side.
• For non-signalized intersections, place bus stops and pedestrian crossings in close proximity
(‘co-locate’) to allow people riding transit to cross the street safely

▪ Create a fund for bus stop & pedestrian improvements, focusing on equity
June 11, 2024

26

Recommendations – Examples – Planning
▪ Address local infrastructure gaps by partnering with municipalities.
• Improve pedestrian access to stations (particularly in areas adjacent to Peoria Station) - as
well as station design itself - focusing on sidewalk connections, lighting, and signage.

▪ Adopt DRCOG Vision Zero Guidelines, i.e.:
• For signalized intersections, place stops at the far side.
• For non-signalized intersections, place bus stops and pedestrian crossings in close proximity
(‘co-locate’) to allow people riding transit to cross the street safely

▪ Create a fund for bus stop & pedestrian improvements, focusing on equity
June 11, 2024

27

Questions?
“Underlying the Vision Zero strategy is the Safe System – a holistic safety approach that shifts
responsibility from the people using roads to the people designing them, integrating core management and
action areas to create a safe mobility system forgiving of human error. The structure of an effective Vision
Zero strategy embodies the Safe System approach. “
Vision Zero Challenge
visionzerochallenge.org

June 11, 2024

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com

