2024-06-12
Operations, Safety, and Security Committee
TROY WHITMORE: Good evening, everybody. The Wednesday, June 12, Operations Safety and Security
Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Time. I would respectfully
ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as possible on the Board's website.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtdboardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available, excuse me, via RTD's YouTube page.
All right, I'd now like to call the role of the committee members. Committee Vice Chair Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Jaime Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Paul Rosenthal. Director Rosenthal? All right, if he joins us, we will so note
publicly. Director JoyAnn Ruscha. I see she's connecting to audio, so I will call her present. Director Marjorie
Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: And I am Troy Whitmore, the chair of this committee, and I am present as well. I see
that we do have a quorum. Also, in attendance, we have several other board members. We have Director
Peggy Catlin. We have Director Bob Broom. And we have Director Michael Guzman. Have I missed any
other board members that are not on the committee that are in attendance? OK.

Now I'd like to open the agenda up to the public comment portion of the evening. This is available to anyone
who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either
raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your phone.
Now, during this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please feel free to email the RTD Board Office at once
again, rtdboardoffice@rtd-denver.com. All right, Mr Kroll, are there hands raised for comments?
JACK KROLL: Hello, Committee Chair Whitmore. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office.
At this time, I see one hand raised, and that is from Richard Bamber.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, Mr. Bamber, the routine. You have three minutes to address the committee.
And the microphone is yours.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi. Good evening. Thank you, Chair Whitmore. So it's been a week on the light rail.
Greater Denver Transit has sent in a letter. So I would like to confirm that we would like staff to follow up in
advance-- sorry, follow up to the contents of that letter.
I wanted to just place an idea into the committee members' minds, which is, you know, last Friday there
was a plane crash, a private plane crash in Arvada. And sadly, it's been announced one of the passengers,
a lady, since lost her life, five days ago. And we know the type of plane, where it was going, who was on
board. The NTSB have even told us the high level cause, which appears to be engine failure.
We're going to get promised an interim report, which is presumably going to be multiple pages with even
more details within 30 days. And then as the NTSB fully investigates every part of this accident, including
dissecting the parts of that plane's engine, looking at how the ATC handled it, how the pilot-- unfortunate
pilot handled it, we will get to know everything that happened on board that aircraft. And that's promised
within 12 and 24 months.
I'd like to contrast that with the light rail that we-- you know, I am going on a scrap of a PUC submission as
to what happened in January. The Directors committee members may know more. We know you've had
executive sessions on it. But it's nearly five months. And we just, you know, we have-- there is a level of
secrecy and a culture of secrecy. You can see the public right now is begging for answers as to why the
train service has fallen over. OK.
Openness and transparency is a key plank of a safety culture. And this segues me into supporting the
second item that we wrote about, which is the Vision Zero. RTD's leadership, Directors, have a choice now.
We can be the safest leading agency in the nation, you know, with openness, transparency. Or we can
keep trying to say the bare minimum and making people like me and journalists and other interested people
actively have to work and dig to find the answers to what is going on with the transportation system we pay
for.

I'd say you guys have a choice. I hope you guys choose to stand on the right side of history and choose an
open and transparent and a Vision Zero safety culture. Thank you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr Bamber. Mr. Kroll, do we have any more hands raised for public
comment?
JACK KROLL: Richard Whitmore, at this time, I do not see-- oh, I see one additional hand that just came
in from Joe Meyer.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, Mr Meyer, the floor is yours. You have three minutes.
JOE MEYER: Thank you. Good evening. And thanks for letting me speak tonight.
I have just a comment on operations regarding the E and H Line disruptions due to the ongoing work on
the coping panels, along with the slow zones on the track. I normally take the B or G Line into Union Station
and then connect to the E Line to get to my office near the County Line station. And with the current
scheduling and disruptions, what that turns into is a nightmare 2-hour commute.
The B Line arrives to Union Station on the 58 minute mark. The E line leaves Union Station on the 55
minute mark. So that's nearly an hour connection time if take the B Line. The G Line arrives on the 18 or
48 minute mark, which turns into either a 37-minute connection waiting for the E line or, assuming the G
line is on time and it takes about 4 minutes to walk from where that train drops off to where the E Line picks
up, you have a pretty tight window, not a lot of delays, to catch that E line.
As a result, I've tried playing with other connections, for example, taking the A Line, connecting to the R
and taking that down to County Line. That takes functionally the same amount of time as waiting for the
next E Line train because of the length of connections required there. And I've tried the H Line to Dayton
Station connecting to the R line, which is a 20-minute waiting period to connect between those two trains
to continue south.
To me, this is not good operations. This is schedule without any sort of foresight of how these lines are
going to be used to get to the South Metro. And I urge RTD to put some extra effort here into making these
schedules work with the ongoing disruptions to provide good service to their customers.
Next week, I'm going to be targeting biking from Union Station to my office near County Line and attempting
to beat the E Line train there. Based on the current time that it's taking the E line with delays, with transfer
times, that's looking very likely that I can bike from Union Station to County Line faster than the E Line train
currently runs.
That's not acceptable. And we can't just adjust schedules to solve problems three times a year. If there is
anything that can be done to improve the current scheduling and delay situation, that can't wait until
September. There needs to be coordination between the train scheduling, the work crews, and the track
inspections and ongoing maintenance there. And I would like to urge the Board to continue to put effort
towards that. Thank you for listening to me.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr Meyer. We appreciate your comments and your input. Any other hands
raised, Mr Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Chair Whitmore, at this time, I see no further hands raised.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much. While your mic is still on, Board Office staff, any email comments
received for today's meeting? I believe there were two. Would you like to enlighten us about those briefly,
Mr Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Sure. So you all received two emails in regard to public comment for this evening's meeting,
one from Greater Denver Transit. And you heard a bulk of the comments there from Mr. Bamber already
related to in E and H line issues as well as a conversation that is likely to arise under other matters this
evening with respect to Vision Zero. You also received an additional letter of public comment from Alejandro
Castaneda, also related to Vision Zero conversation that is likely forthcoming under other matters.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Mr Kroll. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the
public comment portion of the meeting at 5:42 PM.
All right, Item C, information from external entities, there are no external entity reports this evening. So we'll
move to Item D, recommended actions. And there are two recommended actions on the agenda.
First action for consideration tonight is a Group 33 Fixed Route Service Contract for the Board of Directors
to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a contract with Transdev Services
Inc for the provision of fixed route services as described herein. This contract is for 3 years with two 1-year
options for a total of 5 years at a total not to exceed cost of $186,603,968. Additionally, RTD will reimburse
the contractors' direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be $16,101,761 over 5 years. Total 5-year not
to exceed costs for services and fuel is $202,705,729. Is there a motion?
JAIME LEWIS: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Motion by Director Lewis. Do I have a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Sloan. I would now like to ask Fred Worthen, Assistant General
Manager of Bus Ops, and Erin Vallejos, Senior Manager of Contracted Services to present this item. Floor
is yours, Fred and Erin.
FRED WORTHEN: Good evening. And thank you, Chair Whitmore and honorable Board Members. I am
Fred Worthen, AGM, Bus Operations. Sorry. Staff is recommending for the Board to authorize the General
Manager and CEO to enter into a contract with Transdev Services for the provision of fixed route services
as described in your Board packet and by our illustrious Chair Whitmore.

As a bit of background, the current Group 29 contract is in its final option year, which ends on January 11,
2025. Request for proposals were issued February 5t with proposals due March 18. This contract will be
for an initial 3-year contract term, commencing January 12, 2025, with two 1-year option years.
The Group 33 service package consists of 109 buses, operating just shy of 285,000 annual revenue hours
in 14 different cities and counties. One proposal was received in response to the RFP that was evaluated
by an internal team, utilizing a value-based scoring system. Based on the overall evaluation of the proposal,
it was deemed fair and responsive, and the panel recommends awarding the contract to Transdev. RTD
has a long-standing partnership and working relationship with Transdev, spanning nearly two decades in
duration. With that, I am happy to answer any questions you may have.
TROY WHITMORE: Questions for Mr Worthen? Going once. Twice. All right, Director Ruscha, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So first, thank you to Staff and Mr Worthen for disseminating a memo
on this contract last night, giving some additional information on the bidder. I just-- I noted that in the cost
analysis of privatization versus running these services internally, it sounds like we estimate about a $17
million savings.
And without getting-- I don't want to get into it this evening, but given that previous contracts, we've gotten
a little bit more information as to the justification for privatization, I guess my ask of Staff is if you'd be able
to maybe follow up with that separately in a memo so that we understand that breakdown. It's a pretty
significant number.
And I assume facilities has something to do with it. But I wouldn't want to assume too much. And so I don't
want to dialogue, Mr. Chair. But I guess if it's OK to ask, I would just ask if Staff could follow up on that
separately before our Board meeting. But I'll be a yes today. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: If it pleases the Chair, I can actually answer that question at this point.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed, Fred.
FRED WORTHEN: So there are a lot of benefits for contracting. In particular, one of the issues that you
mentioned is the fact that our contractors either own or lease the facilities that they operate. But other issues
at play that drive cost are the fact that our contract operations abide by different collective bargaining
agreements. The privatized CBAs provide more flexibility in many of their rules and their daily operations,
which result in cost savings.
The other issue is that contractors do bring innovative ideas to the table. They provide services in many,
many areas across the country. And they also have lower overhead and cost. So, for example, they only
have to have one payroll department paying the entire country. And so they have overhead costs that are
saved.

They do have slightly lower wages and benefits. But they are market competitive. And they maintain staffing
levels very similar to what our RTD does as well. So there's a whole multitude and variety of issues on why
they are able to provide services at a lower cost.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much, Mr Worthen. And I will ask Director Ruscha if she has any follow
up to that statement. I would guess no, but perhaps. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Challenge accepted, Mr Chair. No, I just thank you-- gosh, thank you. Thank you for
that feedback, Mr Worthen. I would just ask that, you know, moving forward, when the administration asks
the Board for contract authorization, which is like a co-signature, that we could get some of that information
when it comes before us as a discussion item.
And then as it relates to service delivery, particularly these contracts, again, we did use to receive basically
a chart outlining some of those hard numbers. And if we could-- you know, if we could think about-- if we
could return to that practice, I think it would be-- I think it would be informational-- it would be good for this
body, but also the public as well.
And so to that end, I would also just ask, like, because we did receive a memo that is pertinent to an item
we're going to vote on if it would be permissible just to include in our Board report that memo, which isn't-it's not-- it could be subject to open records. So it's not executive privilege because that, I think, is kind of
like an addition to the other memo that we have before us that the public could see.
And so that would just be my ask. I can't force it. But I think it could help in matters moving forward. But
again, I appreciate Staff providing follow-up information to the questions that I asked. And I'll be a yes today.
So thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you. Thank you for the suggestions. I do not see any other hands
raised in the queue. All right, so with that, are there any no votes on this matter. I do not see any no votes.
We have five Directors on the committee-- excuse me, six Directors on the committee present. So the
motion passes with six aye votes, no no votes, and one absent. All right, thank you very much.
All right, the second action item tonight is Access on Demand, additional funding for the Board of Directors
to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to designate additional funding for the Access
on Demand program in an amount not to exceed $8,600,000, $8.6 million. Is there a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved. Sloan.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan. Do I have a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll second it. Bouquet.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Bouquet. We have a motion and a second for this. So again, I will
ask Fred Worthen, Assistant GM, Bus Ops, and Paul Hamilton, Director of Paratransit Services, to present
this item for us this evening. The floor is yours again, Fred.

FRED WORTHEN: Good evening, and thank you once again, Chair Whitmore and honorable Committee
Members. Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations. Staff is recommending the Board
of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to designate additional funding
for the Access on Demand program in an amount not to exceed $8,600,000.
Sorry, something in my throat tonight. Access on Demand curb-to-curb service is available for paratransit
customers who opt in to this premium service. The Access on Demand program provides a $25 subsidy for
up to 60 one-way rides per month from any one of all four service providers, of which two are taxis and two
are referred to as TNCs. The current pilot project will exhaust allocated funding for the entire program by
the end of June 2024.
At the rate of current growth and expenditure, the Access on Demand program is not sustainable. RTD is
awaiting the results of the recent APTA Peer Review Commission to provide guidance regarding the
modification of the existing Access on Demand program. Potential changes to the program stemming from
the peer review recommendations will help with sustaining Access on Demand services. It's anticipated
that a draft report will be received summarizing the peer review recommendations late June to early July of
2024.
The requested additional funding will provide funding through the end of 2024. This will provide RTD and
staff time to review recommended peer review program modifications, develop a path forward for any
potential changes, and provide time necessary to implement any adopted changes. Future funding for the
Access on Demand program will be allocated through the annual budget process. With that being said, I
am happy to answer any questions you may have.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr Worthen. Questions from the Committee? Questions from other Board
Members? Secretary Guzman, the floor is yours.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr Chair. Mr Worthen, given this contract-- or given what you're asking
for us here, we know that we are under peer review for some other things. But I do have some concerns
about continuing this type of program without assurances that folks that have disabilities and have service
animals, specifically, in the TNCs are going to be treated fairly and equally under the expectations of the
ADA and that we won't run into any problems there.
There have been more than allegations about the TNC drivers not accepting the fares and picking people
up who have seeing eye dogs, for example, who are trained to do a specific task for the purpose of the
person with disability who's trying to use this service. And so I want to know and be assured that if this
money is allocated, that we're going to do everything we need to in our contracting to ensure that our
customers are treated fairly, equitably, and justly under the law. Can you please speak to that at all?
FRED WORTHEN: Mr. Chair?
TROY WHITMORE: Please proceed, you or Paul, whichever would like.

FRED WORTHEN: I'll be happy to take that question. Thank you for the question, Director Guzman. There
are many aspects of the paratransit peer review program that are underway. Of course, a large portion of
that is addressing how we handle both Title VI and ADA complaints and concerns. We are working actively
to resolve that.
In fact, we are-- even though we are awaiting recommendations from the peer review, this is something
that we are already working on at this moment. In fact, there were discussion by portions of our legal team
and our public outreach team to address the particular issues that you are bringing forth. I recognize the
issues that you're bringing forth. We are working to address those and have processes in place to prevent
that.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Guzman? That's all? OK, thank you, sir. Director Ruscha, you're next in
queue.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. This is too-- this is somewhat of a piggyback on what Director Guzman
noted. So regarding service animals, do the Staff has a log of how many complaints we've received on that
issue or any other ADA related complaints? And I just ask because I know that in our customer agreement
we do direct customers to go to the vendor for any customer service or complaints, whether that's billing or
the issue that Director Guzman flagged.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. I'm assuming I am good for dialogue,
Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Absolutely
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, sir. Thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. We do track the complaints
and concerns raised by customers. We do get summaries from our TNCs and taxicab vendors themselves.
We're working on enhancing the information, though, that we're providing as part of the APTA peer review
process.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And, Mr. Chair, if I may quickly wrap this up-TROY WHITMORE: Great.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I appreciate that. And I just-- I assume that data would be released
to the Board in a report with the peer review or-- either in it or with it. And if not, certainly we can ask for
that information. But I just wanted to get clarification. Will the peer review be available before or after the
June board meeting, if you know? And then the final question I had is, right now in our contract, can we
issue a fine if the vendor is known to violate, you know, either one of our policy terms of agreement or the
ADA?
FRED WORTHEN: So with regard to the initial question, I will say that the peer panel all have full-time jobs.
It is very difficult for me to give an exact date when they will produce a report. They've made a commitment
to give us a report late June to early July time frame. I won't necessarily be able to say that it will be in time

for the July board, but they have committed that we would receive something in writing somewhere around
that time frame.
With regard to liquidated damages, I will profess that I do not memorize all of our contracts. I would have
to defer to either our legal team or to Paul Hamilton, or if it's acceptable, I could do that as a follow-up to
this through the normal inquiry processes and disseminate the information to the entire Board, whichever
way you would prefer.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, I'm not sure if that was directed at me or the Chair of the Committee.
FRED WORTHEN: I was-- either or.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, I don't mean to take over the chair's hat.
TROY WHITMORE: It's always good to have a little break when your chair, so, you know, whatever.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, so. No, Thank you, Mr Chair. I really appreciate that. And I guess I was just
thinking, you know, given that we can issue fines, for example, like in our concessionaire agreement, if
certain-- you know, if certain conditions happened and we did deem it appropriate. I don't know if it was
similar for this type of contract, which is also under service delivery.
And I just-- if I could beg one more, I did have another question that I did try to find prior to this meeting.
And I wasn't able to get-- I wasn't sure if I had the right information. Would you be able to help us understand
this increase in funding? Like how much-- or how much did we have in our budget for this, whether it was
this fiscal year or a term period so that we can get a sense of what the increase is? And then that's my final
question.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes. Thank you for the question. I can give you both pieces of those information. With
regard to the Access on Demand itself, the growth of the program, it has grown exponentially. And I was
looking for the exact numbers in here, which I believe I have.
The program started out at roughly $480,000 a month in expenditures, and it has grown to approximately
$850,000 a month in expenditures. So it has grown well over 100% since the inception last year. The
original budget was roughly $9.4 or $9.6 million, something like that. I can get you the exact number, but it
was roughly right around $9.5 million for the entire 3-year program length. And that will be expended-- all
of that money will have been expended by the end of this month.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much for your answers, Mr Worthen. Next in queue, Director
Lewis. Good evening, sir. The floor is yours.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Director. I, too, look forward to this peer review. If you're not aware, I think a lot
of people are watching this process around the country to see what we do with this. One of the issues I'm
hoping is resolved is the reason why we have a two-class system. Our base system customers are paying
$4.50. People using on demand pay nothing. So it's definitely an issue that's going to have to be addressed.

And the other issue-- and I just went blank-- but yeah, again, I look forward to the peer review. And we
should answer a lot of questions. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Lewis. And from the Eastern time zone, we have Director Harwick.
You're next.
IAN HARWICK: If I fall asleep on you all, I'm really sorry. I've been up since 4 o'clock this morning, and I'm
a little zonked.
I'm just curious, with this escalating cost, at some point, does it just make sense for us to bring this service
in-house? I'm guessing the answer is no. But I'm just curious. Should we talk about this? And what's that
delta, where it says, you know what, we can do this better than Lyft and Uber?
TROY WHITMORE: Fred go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: Well, that is an interesting question. That is an awful lot of resources and a completely
different model than transit systems typically work on. We do do some level of micro transit in outlying areas
through our flex services. I don't know that any public transit agency is ready to supplement a TNC itself.
I will say, though, with regard to the issues like Director Lewis raised, those were issues that were raised
during the peer review itself. But we're also looking at ways, though, to address I think what you're hitting
at, Director Harwick, is how do we maintain a program that is sustainable, but yet we contain the cost itself?
So that we don't have a growth where we just can't afford to run the program anymore and then it falls
apart. That's why we commissioned the peer review is to try to find ways to make the program more efficient,
more effective, and to work for those who truly need it.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Fred. Does that answer your question, Director Harwick? All right.
Got a thumbs up.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, one more bite at the apple. JoyAnn Ruscha, Director.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, sir. So I just took a look at the memo, and it was $9.3 million over a 3-year
period. And that's where I was-- that's what I was struggling to look for. But what I didn't understand is for
this appropriation, is this for-- like, is this for a 3-year period or is this just for the end of this fiscal year? And
that I think, is where I got confused as to, you know, we were expected to spend 8.3 million from now until
what date certain?
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. And, yes, your understanding is correct.
With the growth of the program is-- I do have the exact numbers now. I knew that I had them. I'm sorry I
had to dig for them. The first full month of the pilot, it cost us $407,458. Last month we spent $830,974. So
we are at the point where we've grown well over 5% a month every month. So the $8.6 million will get us
through the remainder of the year.

We expect that the peer review will result in efficiencies and cost savings. So it is a little difficult to ask for
anything beyond the end of the year right now. And that's part of the reason why we would go through the
normal budget process to ask for funding in the future itself. But the 8.6 million, we believe, will get us
through the end of the year with the existing growth.
TROY WHITMORE: All right.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Yep, thank you very much, Fred. I do not see any other hands raised from committee
members or non-committee Board Members. So with that, I did have a proper motion from Director Sloan,
second from Director Bouquet. Are there any no votes on this matter? All right, the most motion passes
with six yes votes, no no votes, and one absent. Thank you very much, Fred, for your presentations.
All right, next, we move to discussion items. And we have one this evening. Looking forward to this one for
a while. We have an update from Dr. Joel Fitzgerald, Chief of Police and Emergency Management, to
present this item. So with that, Dr. Fitzgerald, the floor is yours.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, Chair Whitmore. And thank you to the rest of the Board and committee
members for your attention here. So I'll quickly summarize the written report, then I'll get into the PowerPoint
presentation.
The written report that you have starts in 2021, when the General Manager and CEO engaged the American
Public Transportation Association, or APTA, to conduct a peer review on us, the Regional Transportation
District and our security model. Pursuant to APTA's subject matter expert recommendations, numerous
operational and strategic changes were made and will continue to be made in RTD Police Department over
the next few years.
In particular, for example, our shift to 24-hour per day operations and the strategic changes that we've
made, many affecting the first set of numbers you'll see on the sheet, and that's our proactive and moreover
facilitating positive engagement with the community and forming true partnerships. The second item was
renewing our focus on crime prevention. Third, ongoing sustainable and intentional phased internal growth
strategy that we use to staff those positions within the Department. Fourth, an ongoing commitment to
intelligence-led and evidence-based policing strategies. And the last being expansion in our roles in
promoting organization wide infrastructure improvements consistent with a word you've heard us use
CPTED, which is Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design.
Our framework that we're using overall is community policing. And it's founded in our RTD strategies of
back to basics, people power, and promoting a welcoming transit environment. And as such, the
PowerPoint that you'll see in a few minutes provides examples of how we're changing things and how we
segment our success stories in really four different areas-- that strategic implementation, evidence-based
policing, the alignment of our strategic priorities, and finally, our performance data outputs.

Lastly, the written document that you have provides examples of how our community policing focus is comingled with promoting a welcoming transit environment, how the success of our staffing plan enhances
people power, diversity, and our ability to address crimes. While the final section explains how we've
identified and actively fill the gaps in our CAD RMS software. That really is our ability to capture information
and regurgitate it and use it to deploy effectively, to become more efficient, and to provide just our staff in
general and command staff with the ability to analyze and adapt to the dynamic crime trends that we see
throughout the transit environment.
So without further ado, we'll move on to the digital presentation. Steve, if you would advance the slide. So
as I discussed, the back to basics and people power and welcoming transit environment are what we're
grounded in. Advance the slide, Steve.
As an operational update, as part of our welcoming transit environment efforts, we've installed 1,028
cameras, live look-in cameras onto buses and 35 light rail cars. Now, you may say, 35 light rail cars only.
Well, as light rail cars come in to the shop and are worked on, we are, you know, ensuring that the live lookin videos are installed into those cars.
What that does is if an operator is in trouble, we're able to immediately, through dispatch as well, look in to
that actual vehicle and be able to describe what's going on, to see what's going on, and to attend to that
issue. So we've done that in over 1,000 buses and 35 light rail cars.
How it relates to people with power, as of May 31, we had 77 POST-certified officers. I had to update that
for you. So today we have 79 and 9 preparing to go to the Police Academy. So we're doing very-- we have
9 people that are non-POST certified attending the Police Academy and then an additional 9 entering the
Academy in July. These are phenomenal numbers. As many of you know, we came from about 12 officers
or so and are now again at 79, with a wait list of those folks that we're going to put into the Police Academy.
And for back to basics, our customer engagement and community outreach has expanded greatly, as
you've seen at places like Union Station, community meetings throughout the transit environment that we
serve. And almost every sector, we've attended community meetings and been a better steward and better
part of the community.
Our deployment methods, you'll see here pursuant to people power, we've expanded, as you know. That's
helped to create employee buy-in, to give our folks a sense of being a part of a diverse, equitable and
inclusive environment, giving them opportunities to promote, and enhancing our ability to serve our
customers. We've been more proactive. And later on in the slide process, you'll see some of those
proactivity slides.
But from a back to basics standpoint, we've better leveraged data to inform our decisions. Even though we
are purchasing a new CAD and our RMS product, which I'll mention in another slide as well, we have been
able to use really rudimentary methods to get ourselves in the areas where we need to have the most
amount of coverage. And shift changes has helped us do that.

As part of our welcoming transit environment strategy, as I alluded to, and in all areas of the alignment and
all sectors, we've deployed resources. A commander oversees each individual, one of our five sectors. And
they're our primary point of contact for customers, for other municipalities, for business and property
owners. They actively attend meetings in each one of the areas and, again, help raise our level of access
and our level of-- just our base, I should say, in those particular areas. Everyone knows that they can reach
out to our RTD command staff and Commanders to attend those meetings and to become aware of what
problems those jurisdictions are having in or around RTD facilities.
Our evidence-based policing model-- Steve, if you'd just-- there you go. Our evidence-based policing, just
for you that hear it and don't necessarily know what we mean by it, is just really how we make decisions,
what our judgment is based on. And that's our community input, our community values, and the preferences
that our communities and customers and stakeholders-- customers are our stakeholders as well as our
employees, our operators, the people who are front facing in the transient environment every day.
We use that information that we get from them to focus on how we analyze the crimes and to make smart
decisions. We train our folks and promote them based upon their skills and abilities to solve criminal type
problems and social issues. We've introduced the overnight shift in May to support 24-hour policing. Many
of you may have thought we were already operating on 24 hours a day, 7 days a week basis, and we
weren't. So we finally got our staffing to the point where we could put out a shift overnight, which has helped
with certain RTD properties that during the off hours have endured problems and complaints from those
areas. So we were better able to address those complaints overnight when those types of crimes and
problems are happening.
And I'm sure you'll ask, the 6 mental health clinicians and 5 home homeless outreach workers are approved
in our budget. And we are actively, actively, you know, trying to hire every position in that area. As many of
you know, RTD was the first transit provider in the country that actually engaged homeless or unhoused
persons outreach and health clinicians. So in keeping with that, we are trying to fully staff all 11 of those
positions. Right now, we have 3 of the 11 staffed.
You've heard me mention CAD and RMS. That's our computer-aided dispatch and our records
management systems. Those are being upgraded. We have further developed our partnerships with TSA
and the FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force. Just today, as a matter of fact, I disseminated information from
task force operations about threats or potential threats in our environment. Those are clearances that we
had to get for each one of our command staff members to be able to gain information from those task force
memberships and to be able to disseminate unclassified information and help us to provide a more safe
transit environment.
We've gone so far as to verify, arrest, and court order warrants that we can process ourselves now. That
was not something that was being done prior to the last month and a half. And we've transitioned and
continue to transition from our, you know, Allied Security to more of a police presence. So that police
presence comes with the added value of having police officers that are well trained and POST certified and
acknowledged as POST certified by all of our other stakeholders, the other jurisdictions out there that
depend on us to be there.

In April, you approved the last bit of our Board-- as a Board, you approved the last contract with Allied. And
our hope is again to continue to leverage for now our relationship with Allied and to develop this Police
Department to a point where we are a majority Police Department as opposed to private security. Please
advance.
Our strategic priorities and how they align-- I mentioned how it aligns with a welcoming transit environment,
how we align with the other tenants of back to basics and people power. But we also align with the overall
guidelines provided by the Board in terms of community value, employee ownership, and customer
excellence and financial success.
Community value, in that area, we've upgraded our high definition cameras throughout the alignment. What
does that mean? It means in certain platforms, stations and facilities, we had older cameras that didn't
necessarily provide the type of resolution and quality that our new camera systems offer. Those cameras
have been put in areas strategically, near our vending machines on our platforms, just to ensure that we
are providing the customer the best possible experience and being able to see and determine if there's
been aberrant behavior and to determine who is the cause of that behavior. That has led to some great
arrests by members of not only RTD, but our other law enforcement partners.
CPTED, as I've talked about, we've worked with public planning. We've worked with other departments
within RTD to best determine how we provide-- how we, I should say, as a police department, can provide
our input into ensuring that we're providing the safest possible services and the safest possible environment
for our customers. You may say, well, what is that? Well, that could range from trimming hedges, lighting.
It could just be, you know, what our job is as, you know, Board Chair Whitmore would tell you, you know,
with businesses that are adjacent to us, how can we best help them mitigate the problems that they see
relating to the transit environment? But also create, you know, an environment where we can not only have
to be responsive, we can be proactive in assuring that we make it uncomfortable for people to perpetrate
crimes on RTD property.
That means we can fix the fence. We can go out, and we can assess, well, how can we best keep people
off the alignment? Which in turn may stop people from being struck by a train when trespassing. These are
all things that we take a really good, hard look at and try to change before they become, you know, real
problems in areas that affect other divisions within our RTD. So we have more of a say and more of a-- we
provide our opinion in these areas. And the other department heads and members of the leadership team
have been amenable to listening and integrating some of those ideas.
Our formally, I should say, are formally named unit where we've had video investigations is becoming more
of a real-time crime center. They are actively surveilling areas within our system. And those areas are based
upon the feedback that our Commanders are providing them about problematic situations that can range
from vandalism by youths to something as grave as maybe a robbery or a pattern of crimes in a certain
area.
So we have, in addition to police officers proactively checking those areas, our video, or, you know, our
real-time crime teams taking a look 24 hours a day at the areas that give us our most problems and being

able to dispatch officers many times prior to a customer engaging us for some problem that they've had.
The migration of our video management system has been huge.
Milestone is a move in the right direction away from the systems that we were using in the past that help
us manage our software products. They will integrate with not only the surveillance cameras-- well, they do
integrate with the surveillance cameras and provide us analytics. But they will integrate with our new
computer aided dispatch at the dispatch center and will integrate with our records management systems,
pulling everything together to give us a more cohesive and really intelligence-led way of looking at problems
within the system.
And this year, in fall, we have one commander that-- one command level person that needs one more class
before we are awarded what's called the FBI-LEEDA Trilogy. The Agency Trilogy Award is a huge, huge
honor. I'm the president of the National Board for FBI-LEEDA. And there's only a very small amount of
agencies across the country that have all of the command staff in their respective agencies trained to a
level that warrants this national award. We're expected to bring that before the Board in the late fall of this
year, which is a huge, huge undertaking, considering we went from 12 officers to approaching 90. That
goes to show you that, you know, we've reinvested really in the people that we have working for us that will
provide service to the transient environment.
And we're also pursuing accreditation through Colorado Association of Chiefs of Police. That accreditation
says that we meet or exceed state standards in every category. The holdup for us has just been enlarging
our evidence area. And we're working on that right now.
We plan to bring in assessors to determine whether we can be an accredited agency in the state of
Colorado, which you may say is accredited, well, what do you mean? Well, again, the accreditation is
something that you apply for. It says you're providing an added value. It says that you're providing above
and beyond the level that is expected by POST and expected by the state of Colorado.
As a part of our customer excellence program, what we've done is we've done fare sweeps. Yes, we do
that. We've especially been vigilant on the light rail network. We've received, through the union and through
other means, you know, complaints about folks not paying fares on light rail. So as of May 2024, we've
done 40 train contacts in January through May.
Those train contacts mean that we've had a group of officers at a couple of different locations randomly
stopping and checking to make sure that in addition to what we've already done and what we already do
on a day-to-day basis in targeted areas, we ensure that folks have their fare. We gave out 851 warnings
for those violations. We've issued citations. We've suspended folks. And we've actually made a couple
felony arrests of people who were wanted for some pretty serious crimes. So it just goes to show that we're
trying to bring value to the customer. What we hear from our end is that customers expect us to ensure that
folks that are using the transit environment and implements of transportation are actually paying customers.
As part of our employee ownership move, I've mentioned in previous presentations that we are part of the
national 30x30 Initiative. What that is, is we've made a commitment to increase representation of women

in police recruit classes by 30% by 2030. As of today, we are at 13%, which is huge. In the US, as you see
here, women make up 12% of all sworn police officers.
In our agency, as of today, it's 13%. And we're not stopping. We are making every effort to diversify the
Department and to do it and not lose quality.
Many people will say efforts to diversify lower standards. We are not lowering our standards for anyone.
We're doing it the right way. We're outpacing others in our recruiting efforts. And there's a reason why,
because RTD is being seen as a great place to work.
As far as our performance-- you can advance one more slide-- security incidents, if you look here, that's
year to date comparison between 2023 and 2024. You'll see that we're at 197 different incidents reported.
It's pretty consistent. You would expect to see more incidents reported because there's more of a presence
out there with police officers.
But what I'll tell you is that in other ways and in other circumstances that we see in the transient environment,
the security incidents that are reported now and have been reported over the last couple of years are a
function of the fact that our customers and our employees have more confidence in us that those incidents
will be investigated or attended to. What you're seeing is, you know, a 2023 and 2024 number where we
placed a greater emphasis upon being at least more visible and now more visible and more proactive.
So at this time, we're, you know, pretty much on pace for the 2023 mark. But I will tell you that the pace has
really quickened. And we can expect to dwarf the 2023 number.
Suspensions are up. That's obvious. In 2023, I came to the Board and I spoke of a need to change the
code of conduct and to be firm, but fair. And we have been.
Some questions have come up about the suspension numbers being high. And I will tell you that it is a
result of vigilance on the part of, not only our police officers, but our security. We've made a real effort to
ensure that-- and as I, you know, asked for the repeat offenders, the folks that are coming into the public
transit environment and making it unsafe, that those people will be subject to suspension.
We have done a phenomenal job at ensuring that we address those problematic people in the problematic
places as they have been identified to us, or we have identified during the course of our evaluation of where
we need to be. One of the questions that came up was, well, what are we doing in regards to suspension
appeals? I'll head that off now.
In 2023, we had 14 total appeals out of the 255 suspensions issued year to date. Out of the 14, we had
three that were voided by us based on the appeal information. And 11 were denied. In 2024, we had five
total appeals so far this year, and four of which were overturned, and one was denied.
So I think that says a lot. That says that when the appeals come through, we actually do take them seriously.
We do give people their voice. And as a matter of fact, sometimes we agree that, in the cases that we've

looked at, at least, that some suspensions, you know, are things that we would rather not issue and have
again rescinded. So I think we're being very fair. Move on.
Our call trends just at Denver Union Station alone, we've been trending down since 2022. And I think that
all you need to do is take a stroll through Union Station and you'll notice the difference. I know that our
concentration had been at Union Station at least in 2020 through 2022. And the reason being is I equate it
to battling a problem. You can't battle problems on several fronts when you don't have the manpower and
ability to hold your home.
And what we did was we held our home base at Union Station. And we changed the culture of what's going
on in the facility to make it an environment that when you walk through, you can at least notice the difference
and say to yourself, there's a vast difference between what we saw coming from the era of, let's say, COVID
to today. Our officers have done a yeoman's job of trying to ensure that the conditions in Union Station
have changed. And I think-- I know for that matter that their efforts have-- to clean up Union Station have
had resounding effects.
The vehicle report card program has been very, very fruitful for us. As I've explained to you in the past, we
go to areas that have experienced break-ins of vehicles, catalytic converter thefts. And our officers
physically walk through parking lots. They walk through the lots and determine, using this report card,
whether your vehicle was secured properly-- if you left the purse or a laptop or a cell phone inside your car
that would entice the criminal to try to break into your vehicle.
We have about a 95% passing rate. And when we return to the same locations, that passing rate creeps
up incrementally. Our officers, as of, you know, the end of 2024-- well, I should say year to date in 2024
this year have done 3,300 checks, which is about on pace for just 1,000 or so more than they did all of last
year. So they are getting more actively involved in doing these checks and, again, changing culture,
changing the way we do business in our parking lots and making people take really responsibility for
ensuring that their vehicles are locked and that their items that would entice the criminal to come steal are
put away and secured. Moving on.
The elevator pilot program, that'll be coming to a close. You probably received something from the CEO
and General Manager saying that a report was pending. But I'm happy to say that in Southmoor and
Colorado stations, we've seen a huge improvement to the conditions of not only the elevators, but the calls
that we receive in each one of those places and the amount of primes that we see in those places.
Nine Mile has still been a struggle for us. That is a battle that we fight every day. But we are nonetheless
determined to ensure that when folks go to use an elevator in the morning or in the evening when they're
coming to-- or going to or coming from work that they're not-- the elevators are accessible to them. They're
not going to be the victims of crime inside of an elevator or have to cramp in with someone who's camping
inside of an elevator.
This program has been adopted by LA Metro. They have called us and, you know, asked us about the
program. And I've been in touch personally with them about the results. And they have changed some of
their protocols. And other agencies are looking to do the same.

This is part of a CPTED effort. This is just changing something very basic, opening a door and making it
really not as enticing, right, as it might have been in the past with being able to close a door and ride the
elevator up and down. It's just a matter of leaving the door open and allowing a person to be able to see
what's inside before they're surprised in the morning or in the evening when they're coming back to their
vehicles.
So we're looking at the calls for service in those areas. We're taking customer comments into consideration.
And we're providing, you know, Deborah, a report on all of these things. And you should get that, I'm sure,
within the next month.
Our calls for service, as you might imagine, or as I described Nine Mile is the challenge, is the biggest
challenge for us. The other two areas have been absolutely dramatically changed. Colorado Station and
Southmoor Station have seen tremendous declines. And Nine Mile, again, people are calling people realize
that our folks now, even our security officers are there at a static post. So folks are making more reports to
us and in essence giving us the ability to reprogram or redeploy our personnel down there strategically.
My feeling is that we'll win the battle at Nine Mile. And we'll have a decline in calls for service and crimes.
It's just going to take a little while longer than Colorado and Sophomore Station-- Southmoor Station, excuse
me.
Our White House Overdose Initiative is something that I know the GM and CEO had reported on. We were
an active participant in the efforts to highlight how Narcan can help reverse situations where folks have
overdosed. All of our POST certified officers carry it and so do the supervisors for our security complement.
In each one of our transit hubs, there's Narcan available. And in 2023, we've used it 103 times, at this time,
year to date, already 64 times. So we're well on pace to use it more than we ever used it, which is sad, but
it is also a positive thing that we have Narcan available.
I'll also say that in addition to the Narcan usage and us being a part of this initiative, I'm part of a program.
And we're doing research now in DC for the fentanyl crisis. And the National Academy of Sciences reached
out and asked if I would be a part of their initiative and to write a white paper on it. And we are doing that.
And we are also evaluating our statistics here, not only for Narcan and Narcan usage, but opioid usage in
general in the Denver metro area and RTD in particular. So that paper is being worked on now. And we
should be able to produce something within the next four to six months.
Our Narcan-related calls, you'll see a trend line there. The trend, unfortunately, is elevated. It's elevated
because of the fact that, you know, more people have access now to fentanyl. And fentanyl is a dangerous,
dangerous drug. I don't have to tell you that.
But what I can say is that more folks are using it. And the availability and our ability to use Narcan to reverse
the effects of a potential overdose is as important as ever for us to have handy. This trend line suggests-not only suggests that, it screams it.
So I thank you. Hopefully, I didn't run over too long. And I invite any questions.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Chief. Great presentation. Very thorough and wide ranging. I do see that
we have one committee member in queue. Director Lewis, the floor is yours.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Chief Fitzgerald. I know a lot of these efforts are long time coming. You've been
working several years on getting these things done. So congratulations on that.
I have two questions. One, I'm just curious, what is the contributor to the difficulty of getting the six mental
health and the five homeless coordinators hired? Do you think it's salary related? Or what do you think
what's the problem there?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, first, I can-- this may sound like a convenient answer, but this is the truth. Deputy
Chief Martingano, who's on the line now, is actually meeting with Jeffco and, you know, to discuss whether
we need to elevate the amount of money that we have, again, to entice people. But these have been open
positions for quite some time.
As a matter of fact, one of the people is applying to become a police officer here. So it's not altogether bad.
But we train our folks in CIT. But with that being said, we do need specialists, more specialists interested
in these positions. I think salary is part of the issue, but also working conditions, just having them not only
be-- you know, when you have a choice between being on the street and being in camps of the unhoused
and being in an office, I mean, some people choose the office.
We do have-- the folks that we do have in these positions are really dedicated. Like I'll use Alton as an
example. Everyone knows that name but may not have-- I should have had a picture of him to put into the
actual presentation. But Alton Reynolds is the go-to guy for even outside of RTD. I mean, Denver uses him.
All the other counties want to use him to go into these environments. And he's able to make inroads and to
move them into situations that are better and more healthy for them.
So we have really dedicated folks in these areas that stand out. However, we're struggling to get the total
number that we've had budgeted of 11. So I hope that answers your question. It really is difficult. And it's
due to, in part, what the pay looks like.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, sir. And the second question is our BRT is going to be opening up pretty soon.
One of the factors is that it's going to be pay before you get on the bus. So the drivers are not going to be
checking for fares. Also, you know, right now, it's 22,000 riders a day on the 15. And there's a lot of feeling
that a lot of people don't use it because of safety concerns. I'm just curious what resources you're going to
be putting toward the BRT so that can be successful and hopefully pave the way for the next BRT, which
will be on Federal.
JOEL FITZGERALD: As we grow, my intent is to-- right now, we do at least once a week get some
undercover guys out to work on-- it depends-- it really will depend on where we're getting the most
complaints. But between light rail, some on bus, and granted we need to do more on bus, we are getting
folks out there. And that has led to-- I know for a fact that people, operators in particular have been happy
to see our folks there.

Again, it's not perfect because we can't be on every bus. We can't be on every implemented transportation.
But when people know that we're employing some of the undercover resources, they never know whether
we're on there. So it sort of is a check and balance. As long as we're able to make ourselves known at
some point, it seems to change some of the behaviors because folks really don't-- again, as I said, don't
know, you know, whether we have an undercover person on the bus or train or not.
JAIME LEWIS: Mr. Chair, may have a follow-up question?
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, I'm just curious, are you using-- will you be using their subcontractor for maybe some
of that work just to have a presence on the BRT?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Yes. What we-- you know, one of the things we've looked at is as we move to more
of a sworn police force, how we best allocate our resources with the security personnel. One of the things
that we have to do is get more uniform security on buses. But also, and I mentioned this during the time,
I'm sure that when it was brought to the entire Board, this was mentioned as well, is that we have to ensure
that our physical facilities are also being protected.
Right now, we only have armed security or security in general in certain facilities. I'm not going to say which
because I wouldn't want to say that publicly. But in some facilities, we need our armed security, or our
unarmed security even, walk around are different locations. So we are really reevaluating the deployment
of the security guard resources pursuant to how we're growing as a police department. How best can we
marry it to help the overall environment for our customers and for our employees?
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. Thank you for the questions-JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: --Director Lewis. All right, next in queue, Director Harwick, floor's yours.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Chief Fitzgerald. I had two questions-- or one question, one just comment. And
I think I asked this last time, and I know luckily I'm glad we don't have a lot of gun violence or even the
threat of gun violence. But I was just curious, there's a program called Zero Eyes. It's like AI software that
can look for guns. And I feel like I asked this a while back, but I can't remember. Do we utilize that or have
we looked into utilizing that just to be ahead of the curve?
JOEL FITZGERALD: So we do have video analytic resources that can help. I don't know that it can zero in
per se on a gun. But, you know, it really helps us in so far as if we're looking for lost kids or, you know,
packages that are left that we have to investigate. So we are able to do some of those video analytics. It
probably would require us sitting down with you and just explaining the size and scope of what we can do.
But if you would like that, I could prepare something for you and even give you an idea of what guidelines
we go by, because we do have stringent guidelines that have to be followed in order to use that.

IAN HARWICK: Yeah, no, I'd really appreciate that. I think it'd be really interesting. And then the other one- OK, go ahead. Sorry.
JOEL FITZGERALD: No, I was just saying I'll follow up and get you that.
IAN HARWICK: Great. Thank you. And the other one, the other day, I took the W Line from Wadsworth to
the Perry Station. And I don't typically take that line. But I was a little-- Wadsworth Station just felt-- didn't
feel great to me, felt pretty unsafe. And as know, as a white man, you know, that, you know, has seen
enough stuff, it just was more just to-- I didn't feel great about for the community. And so I just sort of wanted
to, like, just raise a little flag, like, hey, maybe we could send some guys out there or women out there to
go out there and just kind of just put another set of eyes on that because, you know, it was 10 o'clock in the
morning and I just noticed the elevator wasn't working, a lot of disrepair, and just felt, you know, I'm just
glad the train got there fast.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I'm disappointed to hear that because since I've got here, my staff will tell you that
Wadsworth has been the bane of my existence. And I made it my business to, if you notice the area
adjacent, the walkway, that should be clear every day. I can show you pictures of when I first started where
there were people camped. And you couldn't walk up that to get to the platform. And that changed.
So I'm disappointed to hear that no one's called in if repairs are needed and if there were things going on
in the platform. We have static posts at Sheridan and Wadsworth to ensure that those people are moved.
So I'm disappointed to hear that and that will change. I have both Deputy Chiefs are on as well, and they've
heard it. And no doubt, you'll notice a difference.
It's odd to say that because there are people here too that work within the leadership team and such that
ride that train and have noticed the changes positively. But if you notice that, I have no doubt that it was
there. And I'll make sure it's addressed.
IAN HARWICK: Great. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're welcome.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, thank you, Director Harwick. I see Director Bob Broom has his hand raised.
Go ahead, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I have a question about drug testing. Are the results of drug tests going
up or going down, or what's happening in that regard?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Director Broom, you have to forgive me, the drug testing for purposes of work or drug
testing of folks that are violators, just out of curiosity?
BOB BROOM: For work, for, you know, our purposes of screening people.
JOEL FITZGERALD: So I don't have all of that information. I know that drug testing is part of our both FRA
you know, and our guidelines here at RTD. We just-- as a matter of fact, myself and Deputy Chief Horn

were just in a training yesterday that had to do with noticing folks that may be under the influence of drugs
and what our core responsibilities are through RTD. So we are trained on that pursuant to federal
regulations.
But also, drug testing is random. And my understanding is-- don't quote me on this-- but I think at least half
of RTD's employees were tested in a given year for drugs. I can't give you the failure rate or the passing
rate. I know it's-- the passing rate is very, very high. But that does happen, and we are subject to randomized
drug testing.
BOB BROOM: Well, the reason I ask you is that we, you know, kind of been told that that's one of the
biggest impediments of being able to hire bus drivers and train operators. But you seem to have been able
to staff up, whereas we're, you know, constantly having to cancel trips because we don't have enough
operators. Thanks for your efforts.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, sir. I can only answer from the police standpoint and tell you that we've
been really vigilant about trying to hire licensed police officers. And part of being a police officer is drug
testing is part of it. And you can't have-- our backgrounds are a little more intricate than I would say those
of maybe operators. So that may be part of the difference. But I would defer to Fred or Dave Jensen to tell
you from a rail operator or bus standpoint, you know, what their testing looks like.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you. That covers everything.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Broom. Board Secretary Michael Guzman, you have the floor.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Chair. I do have a question. Do we know about what the recidivism rates
are? Or are we not seeing any for those that have been suspended from service? Are we seeing people
come back rehabilitated and following the rules? Or are we seeing people come back and get booted again
for breaking rules? You don't have to answer like with specifics, but just-JOEL FITZGERALD: I can just give you anecdotal evidence. I mean, I listen to the-- if I were not on this
call, I'd be listening to the radio. Part of what I do when I listen to the radio is I hear when people are being
run-- run, being we check them by way of dispatch to ascertain whether they've been suspended, whether
they're wanted. And most of the folks who we're contacting have been either suspended multiple times or
actually have warrants.
So there is recidivism and a very high rate of it. I couldn't put a number on it right now for you. And you
know, anecdotally, I'll tell you again that the reason why we came back to the Board was to ensure that we
had the power to suspend. And what we're doing is we're not suspending you initially for 365 days. We do
it as progressive discipline.
And, you know, we're very conscious of the fact that people need to get from A to B. But we also want to
make sure that they know that during that ride, we expect them to behave. And certain folks, you know, are

the people we have to keep our eyes on and to know that, you know, they are apt to come back. And we
have, you know, once they get to a certain point, we make sure that they're trespassed. And, you know,
legally, especially in Denver, the court system will work with us to ensure that that's enforced.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. That was exactly what I was looking for for an answer. Chair Whitmore, I
have one more.
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: With regards to slide, I think it's packet page 34, but the 2023 to 2024 numbers with
the elevator calls, is that a year over year or is that the total of '23 compared to the month, you know that
we're in right now? You answered the question about Nine Mile that I was going to ask with this. But I'm
just trying to ascertain if we're halfway through the year and we're looking like we're going to trend lower
than last year, that's great. But if we're not really looking at year over year or we're looking at a month by
month comparison, I'm just curious.
JOEL FITZGERALD: If you could bring that slide back up, Steve-- are you on? Can I-- once that gets up,
get back to the answer, and then I'd like to look at that number, that slide again. I believe that slide just was
year to date comparison of those two. But I'd need to see the slide again to be sure. Can I come back to
that answer as soon as they get the-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I'm not seeing it. Oh, I see it now. Here we go. OK, so that's all of 2023 versus all of
2024 year to date. So your 2023 numbers are actually the entire year of 2023, so compared to year to date
2024, year to date being the end of May of 2024.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're welcome, sir. Sorry I had trouble seeing that slide.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, thank you very much for the question. Next in queue, I have first Vice Chair
Peggy Catlin. Floor is yours.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would gladly yield to committee members before I speak. And I see Director Sloan's
hand is up.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I already wedged Director Broom in there. So I think I've set a precedent. So just
go right ahead, Director Caitlin, because Director Sloan is quite gracious.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Dr. Fitzgerald, we had a Performance Committee meeting on Monday. And
I'm really pleased to see these data that you've brought forth and showing year-to-year comparisons. And
in some cases, you're showing the trend lines. But my question, as you analyze these data, are you going
to be setting some targets for performance against which we can measure these data?

I mean, that's kind of what we're looking for in the Performance Committee. And I think we all recognize
that a lot of this information, we're establishing a baseline. But I would be really encouraged to have this
committee work with you or have the Performance Committee work with you to really establish some goals
and some metrics against which we can measure. So I just wanted to make that comment.
I think that what you've shown today is a wonderful start. And I think a lot of Board Members have been
wanting to see data like this on a regular basis. But just taking a next step, just curious what your thoughts
are might be on setting those targets.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I thank you for that question, ma'am. It gives me an opportunity to talk about what we
do here. And we do have a strategic action plan that we use. And we have over-- Steve, correct me if I'm
wrong-- I want to say over 100 different goals and action items that our command staff are responsible for
achieving, some of which have percentage decreases in crime, a percentage increases in the amount of
time that we spend in community meetings and other things.
So we have it broken down very granularly. And everyone in the Department, from myself down to, you
know, our civilian employees have access to that plan and know what their roles and responsibilities and
goals are for their particular sections. So I, you know, to quote you the different, you know, performance
metrics that we have, I'd be totally off telling you every one now. But for example, one may be decreasing
crime by, you know, 5% overall in specific areas.
So we have that kind of granular detail that we use and provide. And that is what my command staff uses
to determine where they're going to go, how they're going to deploy their-- because I'm expecting them to
make changes along the way and work together when, you know, we're seeing something tick up. So I'd
be happy to share some of that with you. So you could see what exactly it is we, you know, with performance
metrics I do set out there for them to hit.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Mr Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
PEGGY CATLIN: One of the things that the Performance Committee is going to be doing is looking at areas
where we can take a deeper dive into the agency and performance such as that. So we may ask you to
give a presentation at some point to the Performance Committee on just those key areas that you're-- in
your plan that you're working with your staff to achieve this. This is a great example for me moving forward.
It's what we wanted to see with the Performance Committee. So we're calling it a deeper dive. And we-JOEL FITZGERALD: I just caution you, you know, the one thing is in transitioning from security officers
primarily, right, you know, mark that we had to police officers, there's, you know, between last year and this
year, you're going to see changes. And I think once we get to the point where we're predominantly a police
department, that it'll be a little more consistent. But I'm aggressive. And I do press my folks to be aggressive
about their goals. And I'm happy to share. So thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: I understand. That would be great. And as I said, these transitions and-- anyway, I've
taken up enough time, but this is just a great example of what we're trying to work to achieve with the
Performance Committee. So thank you very much for a great presentation.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, ma'am.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Next in line, Committee member Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you very much, Chair. And I would just like to say Director Catlin always has
such a rational approach. I really appreciate it. And I love the idea of connecting safety and security on the
buses and trains with the Performance Committee, so great concept.
I am a regular rider of the W Line. And I can confirm by my experience that the trend line is definitely toward
the safety end of the scale. However, I also know that experience of customers varies by the day, by the
time. And it's-- you know, Director Ian just said his experience was at 10 o'clock in the morning. They're not
the times that you would expect that there be problems.
But in general, customers are noticing a change. We get a lot of emails from people who have noticed that.
And I try to pass those on. And the same thing about people who have complained or have just heard that
you don't get on light rail, we need to change that perception. But we're heading in the right way. Not only
more uniformed guards and officers will help. But more passengers will help the feeling of safety so that
mainstream people feel comfortable.
I would like to add, and some of you have seen this, my favorite experience last month on the W Line was
a group of dressed up high school students going from Golden to prom downtown Denver. Their parents
made the decision that that was a great idea. It fits with zero fares for youth. And it's just a perfectly
emblematic proposal of how important transit is, and we can encourage youth and ridership. So thank you,
chief.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You just gave me a great idea now. I want to steal to call it Police for Prom and to
maybe have police officers waiting and cheer for them when they get off on and off the trains. You know,
that would be a great idea and a great way to link the police department with the community and the
positives of taking the train. So if we can work with that school or schools to do it, we'd be happy, you know,
to leverage that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And you have a year to do that because proms are over. That's a great idea. Thank
you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: It's your idea.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you. You can always count on Director Sloan with some great
anecdotal stories that are apropos. I see Committee Member Lewis is back in queue. The floor is yours, sir.

JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. Just a quick comment. The numbers for Nine Mile between '23 and '24 might
be skewed a little bit. If you remember, the Nine Mile elevators were down for about five months due to a
flood and us having to redo the electricity. So you see that there's 24 complaints in 2023. And then all of a
sudden we're already up to 100 this year. So I just wanted to point that out, that number is going to be
skewed a little bit because of that downtime in 2023.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, thank you for that. I do know nonetheless, I still feel it's a challenge. It's one
we're accepting. And we're looking to reverse that trend, even if it's just, you know, due to-- I appreciate the
life preserver, just put it that way. But we're still working on it.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you. Director Broom, I assume your hand's still up from a prior question.
But if you have another question, go ahead.
BOB BROOM: Nope. I'm fine. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Well, tremendous presentation, Chief. And great feedback and questions from
my colleagues. I appreciate this. Certainly really appreciate the upward trends that really work towards a
welcoming transit environment. So congrats on that, and keep up the good work. And please share that
with your Commanders. And I know Steve's hearing that as well. So well done.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Will do. Thank you all.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much. Mr. Kroll, I know that we are trying to be respectful of our back
office staff and those that are working behind the scenes. I know we have probably 15 to 30 minutes of
programming left. Shall we take a break on behalf of our support staff, or shall we power through? What is
your opinion on that?
JACK KROLL: I think generally speaking, we'd want to take a break if the meeting is going to go more than
two hours. So I leave it to you to determine with your committee members, whether they want to push
through or not. If you're anticipating going more than the next 30 minutes, then it might be wise. However,
you've reached the point in the meeting where you have other matters. And I know there's an important
matter that Director Ruscha would like to bring, and Director Harwick as well.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. All right. OK, well, I'm going to take the privilege of being Chair. We're going to
take a 10-minute pause for the cause so we're OK. The one thing that I will warn, we don't want Ian to fall
asleep. So get up, do some exercises, because I know you're part of the next presentation, Director Harwick
So we will reconvene at-- let's just call it 7:15 Mountain Time. Be back in a flash.
IAN HARWICK: I'll be awake, Troy.
TROY WHITMORE: For the remainder-- All right. Thank you very much. We're reconvened at 7:15 for the
remainder of the RTD OSS Committee meeting. Only item left on the agenda is other matters and then
some announcements from me at the end.

Before I open up the other matters for the rest of the committee members, we do have a special presentation
tonight presented by Directors Ruscha and Harwick regarding Vision Zero. As you all know, we have had
a number of conversations going back to our strategic planning in regard to this program. And we have
several board members that are very committed to presenting that to us tonight and have worked a lot of
hours to put a presentation together.
So before we go to the other other matters, if you will, we're going to have the presentation from Directors
Harwick and Ruscha on Vision Zero. And as Chair, I have granted them 15 minutes for their presentation.
Obviously, we might have some questions and some dialogue after that presentation. So we will see how
that goes.
At this point, I believe that Director Harwick is going to be the beginning presenter. But consider this as a
co-presentation with Director Ruscha and Director Harwick. So feel free, Director Ruscha, to jump in without
needing my permission during the 15 minutes to expedite the smoothness of the presentation. So with that,
director Harwick, the floor is yours.
IAN HARWICK: Can you see that?
TROY WHITMORE: Not yet.
IAN HARWICK: OK.
TROY WHITMORE: Sometimes it takes a moment or two. Just a reminder for everybody on the meeting to
please mute your devices. Got a couple that are not. You are beginning to be seen here with Vision Zero,
Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: We can see your screen, but you're not in presentation mode.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, that would be helpful.
IAN HARWICK: Working on it, everybody. It's been a second since I presented in Zoom, so-- it's usually a
Teams thing for me. How about now? Are we good?
TROY WHITMORE: That's good.
IAN HARWICK: We're good. Not.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. Oh, is that because--

IAN HARWICK: Hmm?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Are you trying to show in presentation mode and still see your notes?
IAN HARWICK: Yeah. All right, well-JOYANN RUSCHA: I think when you do that, you have to-- when you-- when you click on share, there's a
button that says Show a portion of your screen.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: But like you, it's been a while for me. There might be someone in the Board Office who
knows how to do this.
JACK KROLL: I can offer to pull up the presentation on my end. And then if you have notes and-IAN HARWICK: Sure.
JACK KROLL: --direct me to continue the slide presentation-IAN HARWICK: Yeah, that works. That works for me. That's great.
TROY WHITMORE: That would be helpful.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Of course.
IAN HARWICK: All right. Yes. As Director Whitmore said, JoyAnn and I and Director Guzman and a lot of
community members have spent quite a bit of time working on this Vision Zero presentation. And JoyAnn
has done, as our GM says, a yeoman's job, of putting this presentation together. So, Jack, if you want to
go to the next slide.
JACK KROLL: Are you able to-- am I in presentation mode here or-JOYANN RUSCHA: No, sir.
[LAUGHTER]
IAN HARWICK: OK.
JACK KROLL: We're going to just do it this way. I'm going to share it first, put it into presentation mode first.
Then return to the Zoom. There we go.

IAN HARWICK: All right. So tonight's presentation, really just going to give everybody-- I know not everyone
is as well acquainted with Vision Zero as Director Ruscha and Director Guzman and myself, so because of
that, we're just going to give you all an overview and still try to keep this pretty succinct and clear.
So we're just going to go over what Vision Zero is, what the core elements of it and what other communities
are utilizing it, what our stakeholder engagement looked like, a bit of background around that, the action
that we're asking for, and then beyond that, just some future consideration. And then giving that if there's
time permitting, then we'll have comments and questions. Jack, you can skip ahead two slides.
So for those of you that don't know, Vision Zero was implemented in Sweden in the 1990s. It gained traction
all across Europe. And for the last several years, hundreds of American communities have adopted this
framework.
Vision Zero strategy utilizes the Safe Systems approach endorsed by major transportation organizations
like the Federal Highway Administration and Institute of transportation Engineers. This approach
acknowledges that human error is inevitable. So the transportation system itself must be designed to be
forgiving and prevent fatal or severe crashes, rather than solely trying to prevent all collisions through
perfecting human behavior, which, as we all know, is impossible ask. Next slide, please.
And also, just to give you all kind of just a little bit of this, I'm going to be paraphrasing a lot of things. But
this is a really good just look into Vision Zero. So if you want to take a deeper dive into this, this really can
open up what it looks like for everyone.
So Safe Systems Approach requires cultivating a culture within transportation agencies and decision
makers that prioritizes safety above all else when making investment in capital and planning decisions
about road design, or in our case, which road designs are out of our ability most of the time, so the systems
that we're creating for transit. It's applicable in many areas. But this is what it looks like from a transportation
engineering perspective. And that goes over and a lot of this information is actually just from DOTI, the
Denver's Office of Transportation and Infrastructure. Next slide. And, JoyAnn, you're up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: That's me. Thank you. OK, so Vision Zero is also a component of public health policy.
And if we said, like if 30,000 people were killed each year in the United States by curable illness, then we
would rightfully call that a public health crisis and respond accordingly. But about 30,000 people every year
are killed in the United States in traffic crashes. And yet, so many communities have yet to recognize that
as the public health crisis that it is.
And what Vision Zero does is it takes, as Director Harwick noted, it takes this concept that we can expect
a certain level of death in our transportation system and that is OK and flips it on its head and said, no, we
actually need to move towards zero because no death is ever acceptable. And so the safe system pyramid
that you're looking at right now was adapted from what public health and health experts know as the health
impact pyramid. It works the same.
So areas at the bottom of the pyramid are likely to have the most impact because they're systems-based.
It is a policy infrastructure procedure or what have you that impacts the greatest amount of people and also

requires the lowest amount of individual compliance. Strategies at the top, so in this chart, it's yellowish
orange, are strategies that require a lot of individual compliance, interest or attention, and they tend to be
the least effective.
So, for example, an individual level strategy, we see education. And that is one example. So educating
people to look both ways before they cross the track. I have Peoria Station in my background, if you can
see it. And Peoria station is an example of a potential hotspot in our system.
But just educating folks to look both ways before you cross a track requires again, a high degree of
compliance from a single individual. And from a system standpoint, it tends to be the least effective. Now,
it doesn't mean that we don't teach people to look both ways or that we don't have signage. But from a
safety perspective, if that is the only strategy, it is not likely to be the most effective strategy.
Active measures, on this chart, like in the green, would be things like signals, signage, et cetera, like other
cues warning individuals that a train is approaching. And we do have that signage, although it's not clear if
that signage meets a specific standard or guideline, or if one exists, or if maybe we need to reevaluate that
to see if it's meeting best practice. And there are also-- and I'm just using the Peoria Station as one example- and there are areas of Peoria Station like B Line, which is light rail and therefore subject to less stringent
safety regulations. And those areas when you cross the track are passive. Passive just means that you are
using your line of sight. You're looking left and right and determining if a train is approaching or if it's going
to depart.
Population-level strategy would look at the built environment and ask what could be done to physically
separate humans from the risk of injury or death. So that could be a literal physical barrier. Or it might be
technology that prohibits the operator from taking off if someone is in a certain area and the like. But the
closer you get to the bottom of this pyramid, the more effect-- the more likely that your strategies are going
to have the most impact. Next slide.
IAN HARWICK: Some of the partners, actually, pretty much every partner that we work with, major partner
in the Denver metro area, is working on Vision Zero right now. But to get specific, key agency partners in
the Denver region, including DRCOG and its member governments, recognize traffic deaths and injuries
as preventable public health issue that requires a safe systems approach focused on reducing fatalities
through system design.
The BIL, the Safe Streets, the Roads For All, or it's also called SS4A, is a discretionary program that has
$3 billion left in it. And that's available for local governments. So RTD would be eligible.
Some of the local agencies that have received money, Boulder got the bulk of it. They got $23 million for
this. But all together, Boulder, Denver, Broomfield, Centennial, parts of Jefferson County, all together
received $25 million from last year to this year. So this is really an opportunity for us to tap into some good
money.
And so here's just why we should do this. Public transit is highlighted as an important tool for achieving
Vision Zero goals as access to transit can reduce traffic fatalities, while many transit riders begin as

pedestrians. As an independent transit agency, RTD is well positioned to be a national leader on Vision
Zero. Taking action on Vision Zero and incorporating a Safe Systems Approach across the agency will help
us achieve goals we've already set. It also enhances the existing strategic plan that can help inform other
plans, such as the First and Last Mile Plan, and the PAT, ASP, and the TAMP, et cetera. And the First Mile,
Last Mile plan, yes, please.
Next slide-- actually, you can jump ahead to slides, Jack. JoyAnn, you're up again.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. So strategic planning and Vision Zero, so all Vision Zero communities follow
this model. On the left, you'll see-- and it's sort of highlighted in that red dashed box-- the principles and the
core elements. These things are directly applicable to RTD.
So under principles, humans make errors. Humans are vulnerable to energy-- injury, excuse me.
Responsibility is shared. No death or serious injury is acceptable. And then we focus on the proactive
versus the reactive. So that directly applies to what we do here.
The core elements, which we'll touch on in a minute, require an economic analysis, priorities and planning,
monitoring and evaluation, so those KPIs, comprehensive governance and management, which again is
related to those KPIs-- someone has to be in charge-- setting those targets and looking at your data. The
core elements that a local jurisdiction would use-- and when I say local jurisdiction, I'm talking about a
jurisdiction that's responsible for their streets and roads-- are the same core elements and the same core
principles that we would use here at RTD.
On the action areas, there are some areas that look the same. But for a transit agency, a lot of it is going
to look different. You know, how do we actually put that into action?
And one of the things our group did when we started was to sit down, because we were all very familiar
with Vision Zero and our communities' respective Vision Zero plans, was to say, you know, well, number
one, why isn't transit, like transit agencies, why aren't transit agencies part of Vision Zero? Because we
think they should be. You know, transit agencies operate, whether it be a right of way or bus stop placement
or our buses on the roads, you know, they operate in and around transportation infrastructure.
And then we asked ourselves, well, if we were to, you know, theoretically move forward with Vision Zero
and the agency created a plan, would there be actionable items? And that was the bulk of our exercise that
we did over 10 weeks. And it turns out the answer was yes.
So we'll get to that towards the end. But I do want to just stop real quickly and ask if anybody has just a
clarifying question over what we've covered, you know, on the content or the concepts themselves before
we move along. I don't see any hands. So I think we can go ahead and proceed to the next slide.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, so to make this successful, what really is needed is, you know, you can look at the
sheet, but it's we need to have-- we need to have a leadership commitment. We need to have equity focused
planning. We need to have proactive risk analysis. We need to have responsive planning, based on high
crash areas. And we need program evaluation.

And each of these elements is described here and on the next two slides as well. But, I mean, this really
comes down to we need buy-in at all levels of RTD, you know, from the Board to the staff to management.
And we need to make sure that when we're going out, we're doing this work, we're doing it authentic, we're
doing it equity based, we're really being mindful of, you know, the communities that we're working with.
Jack, you can jump to the next slide.
And all I can say is I just absolutely love Complete Streets. I love the idea of being able to create a street
that is safe for all people to be able to walk, to bike, to roll, and to drive a car. So, yeah, I just love the idea.
So, yeah, next slide.
And then recognizing that people of color and low income communities are more likely than not to represent
crash victims. Core elements also focus on equity. Like any strategic plan, Vision Zero requires proactive,
systematic planning as well as responsive hotspot planning. As it relates to passenger rail, an agency might
take proactive, data-driven mitigating measures to address the risk of serious death or injury at an accurate
intersections, or to make working conditions safer for track workers. In this current paradigm, trespassers
are actually vulnerable road users.
Next slide we're going to head into stakeholder engagement. And we're just going to really quickly go over
what that looked like. So you can jump one more slide as well, Jack. Thank you.
So starting in late last year, we met with over three dozen stakeholders, roughly-- I thought it was closer to
40. But yeah, 36 is pretty close-- representing various perspectives. And they participated in a series of
nine meetings, totaling 60 hours between October 2023 and January of this year to draft the preliminary
Vision Zero recommendations for RTD to consider. And then sort of once we figure out where we're going,
you know, we plan to do additional engagement upcoming. Next slide, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And if I may, Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yea. Oh, I also just wanted to note that RTD staff was apprised of our efforts. We did
have some staff members present in our meetings. And we did meet with GM CEO Ms. Johnson
intermittently. And we also, Director Harwick and I, also met with her in February to give her like the full set
of preliminary community-based recommendations. And those are the same documents that you received
via email.
And if you look at the link that you see repeatedly on the slide, just in case you can't find it or you forgot it,
that's the public facing link. And it contains those documents, as well as additional information on this topic.
We also sourced, in addition to doing some of our own research and looking at existing data that we had,
we also got subject matter expertise from area planners, such as folks from DRCOG and DOTI, who
provided, you know, some neutral, you know, fact-based feedback. And that was very helpful to us. Sorry.
Carry on, Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: Thank you. And so in regard to the summary of principles, some of the key guiding
principles that emerged were the RTD Board and Executive Leadership are ultimately responsible for
setting and achieving safety goals related to RTD operations and infrastructure. Vision Zero must be
incorporated into strategic planning and budgeting process. And a systems approach should be taken rather
than defaulting to blaming human error.
It does not include what-- is this? This joint labor-- what was that, JoyAnn? Joint labor-JOYANN RUSCHA: It doesn't exclude-- it doesn't exclude the JM-- now, you had me-- the Joint Labor
Management Safety Committee. It doesn't exclude their participation or override them. And I just thought
that because we do have safety goals in our P tasks, and they do have a special position in the agency,
that it was important to know that.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. That's so a tongue twister. Next slide, please.
The stakeholder recommendations were divided into two main tracks. One focused on pedestrian
accessibility, dignity, and multimodal infrastructure needs, and the other on rail and bus operation safety
issues RTD can directly control. In addition to reviewing research and doing some of our own. DRCOG and
DOTI graciously, as JoyAnn said, DRCOG and DOTI graciously provided neutral subject matter, expertise
and resources. And as JoyAnn said, and thank you, Stuart Summers, and his team for jumping in and
helping us out. Next slide.
This slide and the following slide lay out the guidelines the stakeholders followed when drafting the
recommendations, such as ensuring they meaningfully connect to Vision Zero principles, utilizing an
intersectional equity lens, providing actionable solutions within RTD's capabilities as a system designer,
validating RTD's role in pedestrian safety, and fostering an innovative safety culture.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Next-- sorry, next slide.
IAN HARWICK: Yep. And a core component-- and then a core component of our drafting guidelines is
asking the question, can RTD do anything about this? Is this actionable? And it has to be equitable. And if
we do it right, this unlocks federal dollars for us to move forward in a really substantial manner, as was
referenced earlier. But that's not the only grant that we could tap into. And now, next slide, please.
And so the big ask here is we want RTD to adopt Vision Zero. That's the big one. More specifically, we'd
like leadership to make a public commitment to Vision Zero with an equity focus, defining roles and metrics
for accountability, incorporating Vision Zero into strategic plans, budgets, and ensuring regular transparent
communication and collaboration with continuous meaningful community engagement. Vision Zero requires
public commitment and transparency, communicate, collaborate, and have KPIs.
And as an FYI, agencies recognized by the Vision Zero network as a Vision Zero community include
Boulder, Denver and DRCOG, which JoyAnn informed me was the only MPO in the country that has that
designation. And by jumping into this, we can ensure that we can meet the benchmark within a year time
frame, which would be just outstanding. Next slide, please.

And then moving forward beyond this, these are not immediate board actions, but just something to keep
in mind. Internal safety culture should be part of a strategic plan that is discussed more thoroughly with
staff, including frontline staff and our partners at ATU. This doesn't take the place of the JLMSC. And a
Safe Systems Approach should inform existing safety plans and help us meet those goals. Next slide.
And again, there's a lot of recommendations that came out of this group. I mean, you put nearly 40 people
together, they're going to come up with nearly 40, 40 plus ideas. So the report submitted RTD-- that was
submitted to you all contains 40 specific recommended actions across different areas that RTD could take
to advance its adoption of the Vision Zero approach. This report can provide a real head start through
community engagement. And it's necessary to really give us, again, that place to start, but the building
blocks of work from as we move forward.
So I think we-- oh, that's misspelled.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry.
IAN HARWICK: That's all right. I think we can-- I think we can jump here to questions in a-- you know, for
time. But again, like if anybody wants to dig into these various things, there's a lot of other information, a
few more slides that get added to that. But I think we really covered the bulk of it and laid out what we're
looking for.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So if I may, Director Harwick. So-IAN HARWICK: Yeah, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. We also-- we're also trying-- [DOG BARKING] apologize, my dog, if you can
hear in the background. So we're trying to work within the 15 minute time frame that was set for us to give
a presentation. I'm not sure where we are at time. Maybe Mr. Kroll you can advise us.
We sped through a little bit quickly. But all of the information I think that would be needed to answer any
questions, we certainly have it on hand. So if folks have any questions or concerns, we'd really like to hear
them now, so that we can address it now if possible. Or if not, if you would just like to hear more about
some examples that the group came up with, we're happy to highlight just a few of them.
And again, just because we pulled some recommendations out of a packet doesn't mean that, you know,
one is more important than the other. They were just items that seem to come up a lot. And so we put them
in the slides. So if we could do, like, a temperature check of the body. Mr. Chair, I'm sorry if I'm, like,
overstepping, but I can't see who might be raising their hand or awake on their screen.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, a couple of thoughts. We are past our about 20 minutes on your presentation.
But I-- you know, there's a tremendous amount of work here, and I don't want to cut things too short here.
From what I understand, this is kind of a launch of the idea. We would probably need to come back for a
formal discussion, either under discussion items. And then hopefully, to your point, that there's some action
that would be taken in the next however much time it takes, and so on and so forth.

And at the risk of just delaying the adjournment of the meeting, I think it would be important before I call on
Director Lewis or Director Bouquet, if you can quickly, just as you mentioned, Director Ruscha, give us just
two or three or four of the examples that the group came up with just for us to mull over and do that quickly.
And then we'll get to some questions from the committee members, if you would, please. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. My dog is barking because the Amazon driver is at my door, so I'm
going to pass-- I'm going to pass the buck to Director Harwick. So we don't get interrupted.
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead, Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, SO really quickly, off of rail safety, address the conflicts at intersections between
light rail trains and turning vehicles. This is going to, one, tie in to us, but it's also going to, you know, really- we're going to need to work with DOTI on that one, you know, at least well, really all transportation
agencies, but, you know, they're the big one.
And then implement safety countermeasures for pedestrian in the right of way. You know, like at Arvada,
we have the mini gate arms, flashing lights, pavement markings, et cetera. Something, as you all know, for
me, I love technology. So being able to invest in smarter technology, something that's really interesting is,
is LiDAR. It's like-- I can't remember what it stands for, but it's like light radar, and they're able to-- even in
the dark, they're able to see where humans are. And so this could help in a variety of things on our trains,
in our buses.
And then I even like what we discussed with Chief Fitzgerald earlier tonight, so being able to look at this
and how do we work this into our system. Next slide, Jack.
And then also, I know Stuart's working on a lot of these things, but like, you know, working on signage,
information, again, making sure that we're ADA compliant in everything, and then creating, you know, SOPs
that really are more equitably accessible for all.
And this isn't on the slide, but, you know, like something I would love to see us do is also to hire a Vision
Zero manager. And while that can't necessarily be a fast thing. But I think something like that would be able
to take all of these various ideas and be able to spearhead that into the future. So-TROY WHITMORE: OK. Now, I appreciate those examples. And at this point in time, I'm going to call on a
couple of committee members that are in queue. Director Lewis, the floor is yours.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr Chair. Yeah, I want to thank you guys for presenting this. I know I attended
some of your meetings. And they were pretty fruitful.
There was one section in your presentation where it kind of listed those Vision Zero cities, especially those
that got funded. And again, you know, to budget for a Vision Zero director might take a little while. So I'm
hoping your group continues and maybe meets specifically with those Vision Zero groups to identify some
low hanging fruit and kind get the ball rolling. I totally support this.

But I wouldn't wait to get a director to do anything. I would definitely follow up with those Vision Zero leaders
in Boulder and Westminster. And let's see if we can get some low hanging fruit accomplished. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Good comments, Director Lewis. Committee Vice Chair, OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Chair Whitmore. And thank you, Director Ruscha and Director Harwick for
the presentation and your guys' work that you've been doing for the last, what, since end of last year. So I
know the extraordinary amount of work that you guys have put into this. So I just wanted to say thank you
for that.
And then going to the point of what do we deem-- in your guys' vision, what do we deem as your timeline?
And what are potentially, like Director Lewis said, those low hanging fruits? What do we look at as ultimately
success?
You know, is it ultimately implementing, you know, the Vision Zero throughout the district? Or are there
specific spots where we can actually look into it and say, hey, here's the, not baby steps, but here's the
steps that are going forward to it? So just from your guys' perspective or any others who are involved, I
would love to hear, what does success look like for you with Vision Zero and RTD?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm happy to take that question. And if possible, if staff or Director Harwick could pull
up slide, I think, it's 20 again. But to your question, you know, what are those benchmarks or what do we
see success? I mean, the first is that RTD would have to commit to Vision Zero. That is like step one and
set a goal. And it has to be a public commitment. You know, the Board would pass a resolution. We would
be unified with our GM CEO.
And then step 2 is the creation of that plan. For us, we feel like a benchmark on the commitment front and
the planning would be to at some point either hire a director or designate someone to coordinate. And if
that means in the very beginning, you know, in the creation of our plan, we end up leaning on consultants
for community engagement and to just help us draft a holistic plan, that is OK. But we did identify that as a
benchmark.
And that is also like a necessary component of being a Vision Zero community. You have to say it out loud.
And you have to make that commitment. It has to be very public.
It also requires agency collaboration. So that means we would actively be partnering with DRCOG, local
municipalities, CDOT, et cetera, to ensure that we are an active player in their Vision Zero plans, right. But
we are also-- because a lot of this will involve joint jurisdiction, we're also working collaboratively, ensuring
that those agencies are partners with us.
Sometimes it is a matter of like jurisdiction, who owns what? And often there is a funding question. But
there are-- we just listed two-- there are multiple opportunities and funding opportunities that do, but it does
require that inter-agency or joint jurisdictional cooperation to be most successful. So that's another
benchmark that we identified.

But really, you know, Vision Zero like starts with that public commitment and that plan. What we did as a
group does not replace community engagement that we would have to do as an agency. You know, you
can kind of say we gave RTD a running head start, you know, because we did the exercise of what would
Vision Zero look like at a transit agency. But RTD would have to scope its own plan.
And that's really what we're asking is for RTD to pass the policy and to initiate that action to get that plan
going following the Vision Zero model that we've sent you some stuff. And if you go back to the presentation,
there are a few more details. But for time, we did move forward. But it would have to follow that model,
which is pretty time tested, universal recognized. And also, like this is Safe Systems Approach is endorsed
by USDOT. And so that's kind of what we see as wins.
And then because this requires ongoing communication, collaboration and KPIs, I sort of took Director
Tisdale's saying and modified it a little bit that it continuous engagement, just like with any other strategic
plan, and that monitoring would be other benchmarks of success. But those benchmarks, those more
specific things would come out of that engagement and planning process.
So I hope I answered that question. Our big ask is like, let's get this thing started. And then what those
goals look like and how we are going to reach them, that's part of the planning, the Vision Zero planning
process that the agency would do with the Board and with community and with agency partners.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Have you-- may I dialogue?
TROY WHITMORE: Go right ahead, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you. Commitment regarding a date when it comes down to RTD makes
a public commitment to Vision Zero, have you have any of you discussed what is your guys' goal? You
know, this has been your guys' project for, you know, how many months. Is it, hey, we're going to make this
public commitment before 2024? You know, or what-- OK. Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah so ideally, we'd like to see-- we'd like to-- one thing, we kind of skimmed over
the next step. So for us, next steps are, you know, we're going to take the report we gave to the Board. We
have a community survey that will be translated into Spanish as well. We will work through our network and
RNOs and local partners before we issue like a final report, just to make sure that we didn't miss anything.
And I guess recognizing this is a pretty big step, you know, coming from Directors, we wanted to make sure
that we demonstrated that we did the work. That also includes, you know, dialoguing with our advisory
committees, some individual members who participate, and our CAC in a more official way. And, yeah, for
us, we would love to see the Board pass a Vision Zero commitment in July, ideally July. We do break in
August. So if it has to be September, so be it.

But again, the expectation-- and it would be inappropriate to even try-- the expectation is not that we have
figured out A to Z. It is that we have said, as a body, this is a policy. And, you know, these are-- and we
want to join the Vision Zero network or the Vision Zero communities and help local communities realize
their plans, as well as foster the strongest safety culture possible within a transit agency, so public
commitment piece.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Well, obviously, this isn't a voting matter. This is an other matters matter. But
I am in full support of the work that you guys have done. And I think it would be a good action moving
forward for this agency. So again, Director Ruscha, Director Harwick, and Director Guzman, I also want to
say thank you to all of you guys for the work you've done and then for the staff members that have helped
out. So thank you all.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. Our screen's returning to the Brady Bunch style,
so that helps to see folks in queue. Committee Member Marjorie Sloan, floor is yours.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Great. Thank you, everyone, who had the imagination to see how Vision Zero meshes
with transit goals. You know, that was very creative and very good. You've put a lot of energy and work into
it. And your current presentation explained the connection between Vision Zero communities and transit
agencies.
That said-- I too am all for it. You have carved out an enormous task. And I, too, would like to see a
breakdown of next steps, including how to network with the Vision Zero folks and our DRCOG and APTA,
and all our neighboring communities. And I hope you will put the same creativity that you've shown us
tonight into sketching out some next steps so the Board can kind of get its arms around such a major
initiative. But thank you for all your work.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Guzman, I neglected to call you out for your work
with these other two presenters tonight, so my apologies for that. Your hand is up, and the floor is yours.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No apologies necessary. I wanted to speak to two things. One, I do believe as a
member of this Board and just sleeping on top of our strategic plan, that this does meet all of our strategic
priorities in one way or another. That said, next steps do require a lot of thoughtful work, both on our side
and from the agency side.
And as our fearless leader, Madam GM CEO Johnson is want to say, we need to manage expectations on
how we will move forward. But that requires the collaboration between the governing body to set the policy
and the agency to find the work. But if you look at our strategic priorities, this does nail every single one of
them right through the middle and meets our mission to connect lives, saving lives, protecting lives, and
serving lives, in all manners of our mission and values as an agency.
As a Director who works with the RTC at DRCOG, the Regional Transportation Council, I want to make
sure that I do refer you if you have questions, they have a wonderful set of maps for the urban and suburban
areas in the Regional Transportation District where Vision Zero is key to everything that's going on in terms

of accidents, both fatalities and non-fatality accidents. And many of the highlighted areas of those maps,
the hotspots, really are where our most frequent bus lines run.
And the reason I bring that up to all of you for your consideration is that by committing to this, we are
committing to our neighborhoods and our sub-districts that we are willing partners to help reduce the
number of fatalities on our streets and roads for both pedestrians and people accessing public
transportation. Why is that important? Because more than 51% of the urban fatalities typically are people
who are from lower economic situations or in the minority community, one way or the other. There's a whole
description of that on the DRCOG website. There's not time to go into it now.
But I do believe that this is the best way to serve our community going forward, which is why I supported
this work. And hopefully, we can continue to the next best steps with everybody. But that said, if you think
of questions or concerns, please, please reach out to one of the three of us.
I know there's a lot of information in the emails that you were sent. And that Google Drive folder with the
public facing documents does have quite a bit of the conversation that we had. So it is really wonderful if
you have some time to rabbit hole down there and find out what's going on and what we've been working
on. Without taking any more time, I just wanted to say thank you for your consideration of the matter. And
we are open to feedback. Thanks.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. I do appreciate that. And we are approaching 8 o'clock. So I think I'm going
to wrap up this section. My compliments to our co-presenters and, you know, your great effort on a launch.
We've got decisions to make and work to do. And let's move forward and see what we can get done this
fall, if at all possible. So with that, thank you again for your presentation.
Let's move to other other matters. Any items of input from members of the committee that they would like
to share? Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes, I have a written statement that I want to read. I know this wasn't on the agenda tonight.
But I do have to say something about the South Line.
Customers of RTD have been more than patient with us concerning our summer construction projects.
They respond well to thoughtful repair projects and will adapt to those changes. However, when we keep
changing the goalpost, that has to be hyper frustrating.
Trains that run 10 miles per hour is not considered transportation in my opinion. My wheelchair operates at
7 miles per hour, to put that in perspective. I think we need to shut down the South Line. We need to do the
inspections, fix the identified problems, and speed up the repairs to the caps.
And meanwhile, we should provide transportation from the Broadway Station, using buses, utilizing I-25
and other routes that are parallel to the South Line to get people to their preferred stop. I'm just pretty
baffled right now at staff's lack of creativity, lack of contingency plan, and lack of respect for riders. And I
just find this unacceptable. Thank you.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Other comments? Other inputs? Director Ruschia.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I also, if staff is present, I did have a question regarding the Bustang
availability. And I cannot see who is in the queue-- or who is present. But if staff is able to answer, I did
note that on the Bustang's website, it said that the stations that we identified going northbound would be
drop-off points only, which would indicate that someone, say at Colorado, couldn't take a bus staying up to
Denver Union Station. And I was wondering if someone could address that. I don't know if it's a
miscommunication or if what I read is true.
TROY WHITMORE: So Mr. Jensen or Mr. Worthen, do you have input on that or others. I see Stuart came
on camera. Perhaps he's got some wisdom to share with us.
STUART SUMMERS: I can probably address that, if I may, Mr Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Please do.
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah, so Bustang's still working on updating their web page. As of yesterday evening,
I know they were still working on that. So I imagine that's just an update they haven't pushed through yet.
TROY WHITMORE: Good. We hope so.
STUART SUMMERS: The information on-- the information on our web page is accurate.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And then I had a follow-up to that. I also noted-- we noted that Bustang
wouldn't be able to take transfers, and they would wait for a passenger to go to a TVM and purchase a
ticket or use their phone. And so are we saying that if an individual were to use Bustang and they needed
a transfer, they'd have to pay twice? That was something that I didn't understand with our agency
communications and would like to get some clarification on how that works, or if a customer would have to
pay twice.
STUART SUMMERS: Let me follow up on that question. That's something I haven't seen in our talking
points or in the conversations we've had with Bustang. So let me follow up on that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, very good. Thank you for jumping in there, Mr Summers. Any other items? OK, I
see VP Dave Jensen. Go ahead, Dave.
DAVE JENSEN: Yeah, Mr. Chair, if I may, I think I can provide a quick update on where we are with the
slow zones. If-- OK, so I think-- initially, what I'd like to do really is commend our staff. What I would like to
acknowledge is that they were out doing inspections. They did find some issues. And they did take action.
Where a problem would exist is if we were not conducting inspections, if we didn't find problems, and if we
were not taking actions. And so in that regard, I'm pleased with what they did.

One of the things that we've-- I would encourage, actually maybe to take a step back, is to visit the website,
which I think is very well done, has lots of information, and will provide a lot of answers to the questions
that are being asked. So I don't know that I need to get too far into that. What I will explain, though, in terms
of the inspection process that was adopted in May and how we've enhanced it.
So right now, today, we-- our track department is riding the entire system twice a week and walking the
entire system once every 90 days. And so that's the equivalent-- the way that gets enhanced, it's the
equivalent of driving your car through your neighborhood or walking through your neighborhood and the
observations that you would make at that pace. In addition, the documentation and the level of that
documentation, the depth of that information, will help make decisions for us long term. This falls right in
line with back to basics and getting our state of good repair back in place.
And so that's what's going on. That's the course of action that we're taking. And I'll speak specifically maybe
briefly on some of the defects.
First of all, I think what everybody should know and everybody wants to know is whether or not we're safe.
And the answer to that is we absolutely are. So when we're doing evaluations, we'll look at the substructure,
which is the rock bed. There are no defects in that.
We will look at the railroad ties. We will look at the fasteners. We'll look at the rail. We'll look at the gauge,
which is the way the rail lays. We're looking in detail at every component and every element of the track
area.
And in comparison to what was being done, where we might have had a couple of hundred data points, we
now are documenting thousands of data points, which will help us with our long-term vision of getting into
a state of good repair, knowing what the condition of our infrastructure is, and then developing long-term
plans. So we have found some areas where the ballast, which is the rock, needs to be adjusted. There's
been a couple of minor areas where we can do some minor repairs.
But if you visit the website, what you'll see is what we're referring to are rail burns. And they're little marks
on the top of the rail. We've committed to following the APTA guidelines. And the APTA guidelines
addresses those wheel burns and requires a 10 mile an hour restriction when they reach a certain size.
And what's happened and what we're doing is we're monitoring that. And we're watching it, trying to mitigate
it to the extent that we can. But when they reach a certain point, we're compelled to slow the trains down.
The thought process behind that is that right now, everything is structurally fine. But absent any kind of
intervention, those spots in the rail will turn into cracks. And those cracks will turn into breaks. And that's
what we're doing is we're taking a proactive approach, as opposed to a reactive approach, in the way that
we're managing the railroad.
So we're aware of those. Our team is developing an action plan for resolving these issues. We believe at
this point, we can resolve all of this in-house. It will take some time. And we are attacking it from what's the
most efficient way and use of our time to be able to resolve some of these.

I would also add of interest, in a general sense, the impact to the system in terms of operations is right now
the trains, if you remove the coping panel project and the downtown project, they're sustaining about a 15
to 20 minute delay. We've built in already layover time in advance of this so that the train sustaining that
delay should be able to get out of the terminals on time. So we're as reliable as we can be under this
circumstance.
And so what we're doing is we're identifying where these problems are. We're taking appropriate action.
We're following the guidelines that we committed to doing. And we're doing the best we can for our
customers. And again, I would-- I know that there's hands up and want to answer questions if I can. But,
again, there's a lot of information on the website that I think would be helpful. And I'm happy to answer
questions.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Thank you, Mr Jensen. I appreciate the summary. I see two hands up.
First Director Lewis and then Director Ruschia. Director Lewis, go ahead.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. May I dialogue with Mr. Jensen.
TROY WHITMORE: Briefly. Yes.
JAIME LEWIS: OK, briefly. Well, first of all, there's nothing in my statement that questioned the safety issue.
My problem is that we are not reacting to the needs of the riders. In your website, there is no end date. This
could go on for a very long time, considering what these conditions that you're going to find.
So I am still baffled the fact that we haven't even considered adding buses to get people to the destinations.
It's a simple math. If you're going 10 miles an hour and you've got 20 miles, you're talking two hours. So
I'm just baffled right now that we're not thinking outside a bigger scope here.
You know, if you were to give me a certain date that you could get this fixed by, which I know you cannot,
I would understand. But now that we have this open date that we'll get back to normal when we get all these
things fixed, I'm very frustrated with that. And I'll just leave it at that. I know this wasn't on the agenda for
tonight. But I am very frustrated with it. And I'm getting a lot of calls considering this issue.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr Jensen, do you have any response?
DAVE JENSEN: I think my response is thank you very much for your comments. We appreciate very much
your concern for our customers. We share that concern. And it is our desire to rectify the situation as fast
as we can. And what won't do is make promises that we can't keep to your point.
But I will also say the delays that we're incurring are still allowing the trains to be able to depart the terminals
on time. So we know that we're sustaining delays. It's a 15-minute delay. And what we're not doing is we're
not waiting until there is a failure and then having to shut down altogether. We are still able to provide train
service. So I'm happy to engage further about service and what future service we can provide, more than
what we are already doing. But there's not much more that I can say about that.

TROY WHITMORE: OK. I do appreciate I do appreciate that. And we'll move to next comments or other
matters to Director Ruschia.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If Director Sloan had a comment on this particular matter, I would let her go first
because I actually need to plug in my computer. If it's on this matter, is it OK if we switch?
TROY WHITMORE: That's fine. Director Sloan, go ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And this will be brief. I know part of the frustration on behalf of customers is not
knowing when a train will come. Are the overhead signs accurately reflecting when the train is going to
arrive at the station?
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: Please.
DAVE JENSEN: Last I heard, yes. And Next Ride is also a good avenue for our customers to be able to tell
that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And Next Ride is accurate as well?
DAVE JENSEN: Last update I had, yes.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Is that all, Director Sloan? OK. Back to Director Ruschia.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thank you, sir. I'm plugged in and back. So I wanted to just encourage a
couple things here, encourage staff to-- and the board, also-- to take a look at MBTA in Boston.
So when they had speed restrictions that were related to maintenance and deferred maintenance and
caused massive destruction-- disruptions, excuse me, across their system, they put up a website. They
have a dashboard. They're very clear about what caps they're following and such. And they've been doing
reports.
And so while transit riders in the Boston area aren't thrilled, there's really no question about what's
happening. In fact, if I were to click on the Orange Line right now, I could actually see which areas on the
orange line are subject to speed restrictions and which ones are not.
I'm just like right now, I have a pretty good sense of where, you know, if I were to hop on a line, I would
know where the E Line is going to slow down. But that's not something I think that is readily obvious to
customers. And so I think it's very important for us to demonstrate to the community exactly where these
disruptions may be.

And so if we could even-- it's hinted, but if we could put that on our website, I think that would be very
beneficial. I would so much rather give the bad news to the customers and allow them to make a consumer
decision whether or not they're going to get on the train at a certain station or they're going to take Bustang
or utilize some other mode of transportation versus folks, you know, getting on a train or arriving at a station
and then suffering an unpleasant surprise.
So again, I just want to-- you know, there are other agencies who have gone through something similar. In
fact, I'd say much more dramatic. And so I would encourage staff to you know, to take a look at that and
see how we can enhance our own communications.
To that end, you know, right now the solution is to partner with Bustang. And I'm very grateful for that
partnership. But it's not the same as a bus bridge. And it is-- you know, I don't think it's comparable to
regular service. So if we decided we weren't going to do a bus bridge because of shortages, then I think
that's something that, you know, should be effectively communicated back to the Board so that we
understand.
Like Director Lewis, I've also received calls and emails about this. And if I can't effectively answer that
question, that's an issue. Now, with the website last night and some of the emails we got today, I do have
more information. I can be a point of customer service. But it does feel frustrating as a Board Member when
you have something major happening on the system and you can't answer a simple customer service
question about what people should expect.
And as far as Next Ride, I don't know if it's accurate now. It was not accurate last week. It might have said
a half an hour a day-- a delay or a 15-hour-- 15-minute, excuse me, delay, but it was 30, 40 minutes or
completely missed. And I understand that some of that is input manually. And so that could be an issue.
But again, we really do owe it to the community to do everything we can to almost overcommunicate, but
make sure that access to information is not hidden or buried or requires too many clicks. So I didn't mean
to-- I didn't mean to lecture. And I don't want to disparage staff. But this is something that collectively we're
all responsible for, and that includes the Board. And, you know-- I'll just leave it at that.
But I do actually have a question for Mr. Jensen, a quick one if we can. And I apologize in advance because
this wasn't scheduled. And so I don't want it to look like we're beating up on you. But you happen to be here
and you're in charge of this area of operation.
So we've talked about enhanced inspections. Can you explain, like, what that means? It's kind of a term of
art. Are we just-- are we saying that we are doing inspections more frequently and that is the enhanced
part. Is there different technology? And then while I think this was hinted on our website into the press, I
just want to confirm, will we be doing those types of inspections in the rest-- on the rest of our system?
Again, because we want to reassure our customers that the light rail is safe. And communication, I think is
a key part of that.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Jensen.

DAVE JENSEN: Yes. So I think if I'm understanding and following the question, first and foremost, what we
are doing is ensuring that we are safe. And that should bring comfort. We're getting-- we're being proactive
rather than reactive. Rather than waiting until there is failure and then going in and fixing it, we're finding
anomalies and we're addressing them before they become real big problems and create concern.
In terms of the enhanced inspections, what I described earlier was that today we are much more intimately
close to the infrastructure, for lack of a better term, and as much as we are riding trains through the entire
system, the track department is, track experts, twice a week and walking the entire alignment every 90
days. And so the look that they're getting is much closer, much more in depth.
And then the level of inspection at each location, for instance, those rail burns that we're talking about,
taking the measurements, documenting where those measurements are. So now that we've got information
of where they are, we-- like right now, many of them don't require any action and are cosmetic. But if they
grow to a point, then they will take action. And so we'll be that much more able to be proactive in our ability
to get ahead of those repairs.
So, yes, to some extent we're baselining where we're at. And it was unexpected. We're doing the entire
system this way. We've committed to getting back-- and we're not going to defer maintenance anymore.
We've committed to a proactive, stringent approach to the way that we're conducting maintenance. And
hopefully that's answering your question sufficiently.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Briefly, Mr. Chair, if I may just wrap this up.
TROY WHITMORE: Final words, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I know it's dinner time. So thank you, Mr. Jensen, I mean, to be very
clear, if anybody thinks that it is not safe to proceed, whether you are Mr. Dave Jensen, an operator or
supervisor, Ms. Johnson, then the train should not leave the station, full stop, period. We need to slow
down. So I'm absolutely in support of whatever we need to do to ensure that we are being proactive and
not reactive. And generally reactive means that something a catastrophic event has happened and now
we're reacting to it.
What I think I heard you say is that we are doing these inspections system-wide. And from what I was able
to gather from the website and from the press is that we can expect more-- we can expect slowed speeds
in other areas of the system as well. So unless I misinterpreted what the press reported or what we have
said on our website or in press releases, I, again, just want to really stress that we make sure that we
communicate, over communicate, and make it easy for customers to find that information.
And if we know something now, we say something now, because these are people's lives. And they're
depending on us for transit. And let them plan. And I think public will be so much more forgiving if we are
transparent and give that heads up, you know, than they find out that morning on trip planner or the night
before, you know, that their line was disrupted.

And so to that end, you know, I just again, strongly, strongly encourage staff to think about that and consider
that maybe that is the best customer service response is just to be transparent, vulnerable, and give people
that heads up. So the only final question I have, and maybe this is a follow-up memo, but will staff be like
adjusting schedules or posting new schedules so just to account for the maintenance and the disruption?
Because I feel like if we rely heavily on rider alerts, then that's where people-- I mean, that's often where
people miss key information. So will there-- could there be a potential schedule change, even if it's minor,
even if it's temporary, that could be built into Trip Planner?
DAVE JENSEN: Mr Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed.
DAVE JENSEN: I see Mr. Worthen jumped on and he may be able to elaborate a little bit more having
auspices over planning. We did meet today. We did have that discussion. It's our belief that we will make
significant progress by the next September run Board, given the current operation with the coping panels
and downtown operation, disrupting the service again, we think would be less desirable.
We're attacking the problem. We've got crews tonight. We're working on some of these problems. So if that
becomes something that is necessary, I'm hearing you loud and clear to communicate and
overcommunicate. And we will work on that. But at this point, and I'll let Mr Worthen speak, I don't think it's
likely before September there will be another schedule change.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Worthen, would you like to elaborate?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you for the caution, Director Ruscha. At this
point, there are a lot of factors at play when it comes to working with schedules. First and foremost, we do
have a CBA that we have to abide by. Our operators do bid their work. And making major adjustments that
not only violate the CBA, but disrupt their lives, create other operational challenges that further intensify the
problem.
So the other component, though, is that a lot of these repairs are ad hoc. They could be days. They could
be weeks. They could be hours, you know. So making schedule adjustments on an ad hoc basis is very,
very, very difficult.
We are looking at alternative ways, though, to try and make sure that if we start hitting major problems with
trains departing, finding more creative ways to make sure that we can have trains, at least, departing at
their scheduled times and ensuring that our operators receive their required respite breaks underneath of
the CBA itself.
With regard to bus bridges, though, I do understand the frustration. But I will say very clearly that we do not
have resources to provide bus bridges at the level of magnitude that you're talking about. When we start
talking about the I-25 corridor itself, we're talking about dozens of buses.

We're in the peak vacation season right now. And we are just right at the staffing levels we need just to
make core pullout. We do not have available bus drivers to be able to add significant supplemental services
themselves.
So I know it's not the answer that everybody would like to hear. But these are important repairs that need
to be done. And as Mr. Jensen said, we do hope to have a good portion of these repairs done and be back
on track by September.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Fred. All right, do we have any other comments before we make
announcements and adjourn? Director Ruschia, your hand's still up. Did you have something else? No?
OK, thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry I've got to find the button to-- thank you, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: No, thank you. All right, gang, good meeting tonight. Lots of important topics covered.
Appreciate that immensely.
Just a couple of announcements before we adjourn. Next meeting of OSS is scheduled for Wednesday,
the 17th of July. Our work plan for that meeting has us slated to consider two action items related to service
changes. And those are the September 2024 service change equity analysis, September '24 service
change additionally, several other discussion items slated to come before the committee, including an
update on the agency's language access plan, as well as our Quarter 2 2024 human resources report.
And as always, our work plan remains flexible. And so there could be items coming and going on that as
we see fit, or you see fit, to work into the next couple of months of committee meetings. So seeing no other
discussion or hands raised, we will adjourn tonight's meeting at 8:26 PM Mountain Time. Thank you, all.
Have a good evening.
IAN HARWICK: Thanks, everybody.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Good night, everyone.
TROY WHITMORE: Good night.

From:
Sent:
Cc:
Subject:

Jack Kroll
Wednesday, June 12, 2024 11 :19 AM
Debra Johnson; Melanie Snyder; Fred Worthen
FW: Comment re: today's 055 meeting and Vision Zero Action Plan

Follow Up Flag:
Flag Status:

Follow up
Flagged

Good morning, DirectorsPlease see the email below submitted as public comment for tonight's Operations, Safety, and Security meeting.
Best,
Jack
From: Alejandra Castaneda
Sent: Wednesday, June 12, 2024 11:04 AM
To: Board Office <board.office@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: Comment re: today's 055 meeting and Vision Zero Action Plan
Good morning,
My name is Alejandra X. Castaneda and I'm a Pedestrian Dignity and Sustainable Transportation
advocate who lives in Denver (RTD District C). I'm reaching out because I'm excited about the possibility
of RTD adopting a Vision Zero framework in support of our region's broader Vision Zero goals. As
someone who walks and takes the bus for most of her trips, and as the mother of a 13 year old who also
takes the bus (thank you, zero fare for youth!), I know the crucial but undervalued role public
transp_o_rtation plays in keeping us all safe in our transportation network.
Thank you for ensuring RTD adopts a formal Vision Zero action plan.
Respectfully,
Alejandra X. Castaneda
she/her/ell

1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the
RTD Operations, Safety and Security Committee Meeting, June 12th, 2024.
June 12th, 2024
Troy Whitmore, RTD Operations, Safety and Security Committee Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Whitmore,
E and H Line Slow Zones
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) writes with concern regarding the batch of 10mph slow zones that were
imposed en masse on the morning of Monday 3rd June. These slow zones have broken an already delicate E
and H Line schedule imposed due to the Coping Panels project. While GDT appreciates the photos of railhead
burn posted on the RTD website yesterday, the agency has failed to adequately explain the reasoning behind
the sudden imposition of the slow zones or when riders can expect the problems to be resolved by.
As a severe operational issue, GDT hopes this committee shares our concerns regarding RTDs busiest light
rail line and is of the opinion that anything less than full transparency risks further degrading the trust the
traveling public still has in RTD. We would therefore like to seek responses to the following questions:
1. What exactly in the enhanced inspection methodology has prompted the imposition of the slow
zones?
2. How does this enhanced inspection methodology differ from what was done in prior inspections?
3. Prior to conducting inspections with the enhanced inspection methodology did MoW staff believe that
the result would likely be the wide scale imposition of slow-zones.
4. On what timescale does the agency anticipate being able to return the track back to full line speed?
5. Are inspections on any other light rail lines planned?

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Vision Zero
GDT has been notified that there will be a presentation on a proposal for RTD to adopt Vision Zero principles
as part of the agencys strategic planning and wider leadership culture. As a stakeholder in the
community-driven process that has led to this, GDT fully supports the initial recommendations being presented
today and urges Directors to fully support adopting Vision Zeros systems driven principles throughout RTD.
Best Regards,

James Flattum
Greater Denver Transit
CC:

Richard Bamber
Greater Denver Transit

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

