Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, May 6, 2008
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

May 6, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, May 6, 2008 at 5:35 pm.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Quinlan, Directors; Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Lee Kemp, Chris
Martinez, John Tayer and Dave Ruchman.
Directors; Juanita Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein,
Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, and Barbara Yamrick.

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Marla Lien, Daria Serna, Ashland Vaughn, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Nadine Lee, Pauletta Tonilas, Jerry Nery, Reed
Everett-Lee, Dave Hollis, John Tarbert, Susan Altes, Sherry Ellebracht,
Greg Straight, Bill Van Meter, Rick Clark, Scott Reed, Paula Perdue and
Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Don Ulrich – CH2M, Roger Sherman – CRL, Blake Pendergrass – FRESC,
Holman F. Carter – ATU 1001, Steve Roescler – Siemens, Jim Hall –
CAC.
****

Call to Order

1.

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

Updates
 Update from Citizens Advisory Committee
Jim Hall, Co-Chair of Citizens Advisory Committee for FasTracks, informed the board of
their role which is to review the progress of FasTracks. CAC represents entire district
and review DRCOG report. They also promote awareness and understanding through
the district. They meet monthly and every third month is open to public.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, May 6, 2008
Page 2
 PPP General Update and PI Plan
This item was presented to the board in the form of a power point presentation. Some
key highlights are:







Developing RFQ and RFP including concession agreement terms
Drafting and negotiating parallel agreements:
Railroads
Utilities
Intergovernmental
Working with FTA
Preparing New Starts applications for corridors
Work on completing environmental clearances on East/Gold Line and
Commuter Rail Facility

Brian Middleton reviewed the PPP schedule and informed the committee of an Industry
Forum Kick-off event on July 30, 2008. The purpose of the forum is to layout vision
for project, describe project in detail, describe process and schedule, and describe
DBE/SBE expectations and Q & A.
The forum will also include a networking event for disadvantaged and small businesses.
This event will provide an opportunity for D/SBEs to: understand the project in greater
detail, identify potential primes and describe their services to potential primes.
For information on Request for Qualifications including evaluation criteria – please refer
to the power point presentation included in the FasTracks Minute Notebook located in
the Board office.
RFP Public Information Activities to keep the general public updated include: Web site
updates, Local Government Workshops, District newsletters, SBOO newsletter, Corridor
newsletters, Corridor e-mail updates, Stakeholder e-mail updates, and community
presentations.
The selection process schedule consists of: issuing a draft RFP to short-list teams –
late 2008, conduct one-on-one meetings to discuss each section of the RFP, seek
Board and FTA approval and issue RFP – spring 2009. Initial proposals due fall 2009
and final proposals due early 2010. The recommendation to Board for Preferred Bidder
is expected by 1st quarter 2010 with financial close expected med-2010.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, May 6, 2008
Page 3
2.

Recommended Actions:


Approval for Release of the Denver Union Station Final Environmental Impact
Statement and Master Plan Supplement for Public Comment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to release the Denver Union Station
(DUS) Final Environmental Impact Statement (Final EIS) for public and
agency review and that the Board approve the partner agencies’ Denver
Union Station Master Plan Supplement. Completion of the DUS Final EIS is
the one of the last
In the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and means that the
agencies are requesting official public and agency comment and feedback on
the No Action and the Build Alternative and their impacts and proposed
mitigation.
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager of Planning & Development discussed
the key elements of the Master Plan Supplement & FEIS. Some key points
discussed are:
o
o
o
o
o
o

8 Track Passenger Rail Station
2 Track Light Rail Station at CML
22 Bus Bay Regional Bus Facility
Mall Shuttle and Downtown Circulator Facilities Rehabilitated Historic
Union Station
Passenger Circulation and Public Space
1.35M SF of new, sustainable development
MOTION:

Director Ruchman
moved to forward
this item to the full
board at the May
20, 2008 meeting.

SECOND:

Director Martinez
seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed
unanimously.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, May 6, 2008
Page 4
3.

Executive Session


C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Contract Negotiations - DUS

The Board agreed to postpone discussion of this item until after the Planning and
Development Committee meeting.
4.

Other Matters
Marla Lien, General Counsel brought up a resolution that she wanted the board to vote
on so it could be placed on the May 20, 2008 board meeting agenda. This is a
resolution concerning the sale of property acquired by RTD from the Union Pacific
Railroad. The resolution would offer property back to the original owners first at the
price paid - if the owners are not interested then it would be marketed.
MOTION:

Director Busck moved to forward
this item to the full board at the
May 20, 2008 meeting.

SECOND:

Director Brohl seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed with 6 in favor
(Quinlan, Brohl, Busck, Kemp,
Martinez and Tayer) and 1 against
(Ruchman)

This item will be added to the Recommended Action on the Board Meeting agenda.
5.

Next Meeting Date
The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Thursday, June 5th
at 5:30 p.m.

6.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 6:45 pm.

