Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Secretary – Michael Guzman, District C
Treasurer – Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Bobby Dishell, District D
Ian Harwick, District L
Jaime Lewis, District A

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K

AGENDA
Performance Committee
Monday, October 21, 2024
REMOTE MEETING
8:30 AM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 862 8419 3012 #
Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Performance Committee
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Discussion Item

• Key Organizational Performance Metrics

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date: November 11, 2024
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Key Organizational Performance Metrics

October 21, 2024

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
John McKay, Executive Business Partner
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Strategic Plan
RTD’s 2021-2026 Strategic Plan (Strategic Plan) was approved by the Board during a Special Board
Meeting held on Tuesday, August 10, 2021.
The Strategic Plan establishes the agency’s four Strategic Priorities, which serve as the functional pillars
used to plan, develop, evaluate, and measure the agency’s overall performance:
•
•
•
•

Community Value: RTD strives to be a strong community partner, providing value to customers
as well as to the broader Denver metro region while sustaining planet Earth
Customer Excellence: RTD strives to consistently deliver high-quality customer service
Employee Ownership: RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly skilled and engaged workforce
Financial Success: RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial resources

Each Strategic Priority is associated with a measurable Success Outcome. The revised Agency
Performance Scorecard, which captures metrics used to gauge progress toward these outcomes, was
approved during the Performance Committee meeting held on Monday, October 7, 2024, and will be
subsequently considered during the monthly Board meeting scheduled for Tuesday, October 22, 2024.
Strategic Initiatives
Leveraging data garnered through Community Value, Customer Excellence, and Employee Ownership
surveys, staff held strategy sessions in late 2022 and throughout 2023 to develop tactics to improve
agency performance in specific areas identified within the Strategic Priorities. These tactics were distilled
into three overarching Strategic Initiatives for the 2023-24 performance cycle.
Following this same process, agency leaders met once again in August 2024 to engage in a strategic
planning workshop, during which they reviewed the agency’s performance over the previous cycle to
identify opportunities for improvement. Based on the outcomes of the workshops and the subsequent

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

work of the GM/CEO and members of the Leadership Team, staff developed an annual scorecard related
to agency performance driven by an operational vantage point. The scorecard captures the 2024-25
Strategic Initiatives and tactics, along with leading indicators designed to focus efforts to improve
outcomes related to the Strategic Plan. The annual scorecard was discussed during the Performance
Committee meeting held on Monday, September 16, 2024, as part of a larger discussion about the
2024-25 Strategic Initiatives.
For the 2024-25 performance cycle, the Strategic Initiatives are:
•
•

•

•

Back to Basics: RTD strives to redouble agency efforts to maintain assets in a state of good repair
leveraging sound asset management principles.
People Power: Recognizing the critical importance of its people, the agency’s most important
resource, in achieving the agency’s mission, RTD seeks to vigorously address impediments to
recruitment and retention efforts and to foster a culture of learning and development.
Welcoming Transit Environment: RTD seeks to reduce the impacts of criminal behaviors and Code
of Conduct violations on agency services and workplaces and, in doing so, to improve community
and employee perception of personal and public security on RTD property and vehicles.
Customer and Community Connections: RTD is committed to fostering community building and
enriching the customer experience.

As a component of employee performance management for the 2024-25 performance cycle, senior nonrepresented employees are required to develop and strive to achieve “stretch” goals using the SMART
framework and in alignment with the Strategic Initiatives. These goals are intentionally designed to drive
and incentivize individual performance, which in turn improves the performance of the agency overall.
Moreover, the initiatives reflect a renewed collective focus to deliver meaningful progress toward
achieving the Success Outcomes.
Performance Dashboard
The Performance Dashboard, which launched on RTD’s website in May 2024, serves as an easily
accessible repository for performance data related to the Strategic Plan. The Performance Dashboard
contains data, graphics, and linked information related to the agency budget and financial reports, people
power statistics, and other key measurements. The Performance Dashboard enhances agency
transparency and assists the Performance Committee’s efforts to assess the agency’s progress toward
Strategic Plan Success Outcomes.
DISCUSSION
During the Performance Committee scheduled for Monday, October 21, 2024, committee members and
staff will resume the discussion, commenced during the committee meeting held on August 8, 2024.
Since that meeting, the Board Chair, Performance Committee Chair, the GM/CEO and the Executive
Business Partner were able to align efforts related to key organizational performance metrics that can
potentially be used to gauge agency performance, including elements, but not limited to:

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

Community Engagement
• Community Events
• Total Engagements
• Events by Location
• Partnerships
• Positive Contribution to the Region
Customer Experience
• Average Facility and Vehicle Cleanliness Complaints
• Overall Customer Satisfaction
• Call Answer Rate
• Average Time to Resolve a Customer Issue
Environmental Impact
• Total Facility Energy Use
Equity and Accessibility
• Compliance with Federal Transit Administration Reporting Requirements Related to Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act
• Service Frequency Rating
• Percent Minority and Low-income People with Access to the System
• Households Within a 1-minute Walk or Roll of High-Quality Mobility Options
Financial Performance
• Operating Expense per Boarding
• Credit Ratings
• Revenue
• Ridership
• Budgeted Expenditures
Operational Effectiveness
• On-time Performance by Mode
• People Power Availability
Safety
• Preventable Accidents per 100,000 Miles by Mode
• Reported Employee Injuries
Considering the aforementioned elements related to performance, the impact of the agency’s Partnership
Program could be measured by the total funds budgeted to the program by year and the total number of
projects in the program, and data related to revenues can displayed as a comparison to annual budget
revenues and by category on an established cadence.

Packet Pg. 5

1.C.1

There are several other examples staff are currently assessing pertaining to leading and lagging
indicators. A simple way to differentiate leading indicators from lagging indicators is to think of RTD as a
bus. When the Bus Operator is looking out the windshield, they are looking at what's ahead of them—
those are leading indicators. Conversely, looking back at the road just traveled, as one would do in a
rearview mirror, describes lagging indicators.
Staff will also report on contemporaneous efforts to automate the gathering and reporting of
performance data via the Performance Dashboard. At present, cross-divisional teams are developing a
strategy to enhance data currently displayed to capture internal performance goals and display trend
lines to illustrate operational and administrative performance, such as on-time performance, safety, and
cost efficiency measures.
During the November meeting cycle, it is staff’s intent to share with the Performance Committee for its
use and reference, a more complete look at the enhanced Performance Dashboard. Moreover, the
sharing component will consist of a tool demonstration, i.e., staff will “walk-through” the dashboard
elements.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with this discussion.

Prepared by:
John McKay, Executive Business Partner
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 6

