2024-10-21
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Good morning. The Monday, October 21 Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:33 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting records,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek. He indicated he was running
late.
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger is not here.
Director Guzman. Were you on mute, Director Guzman? Yeah, you're on mute. He's here.
Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I'm Peggy Catlin, and I am here. So for the record, we have five present and two
absent or not yet joined.
I will open the public comment period to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediate preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your
phone. During the time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you
would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised for public comment?

JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. There is
no one present who has raised their hand in desire of providing public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: And in the last four minutes, have we received any email comments, since you last
updated me?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Catlin, there were no emailed comments received in advance of this
meeting as public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. So with no other participants in the queue, we will close the
public comment period at this time.
We only have one discussion item this morning, which is for us to discuss key organizational performance
metrics. General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson and John McKay, Executive Business Partner, will
you please present this item?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. Greetings to all. I'm Debra Johnson,
serving as the General Manager and CEO and as introduced by the committee chair. We will have a
discussion relative to key organizational performance metrics.
For purposes of discussion, this is a matter that has been before this committee on several occasions
since the spring, and what the intention here today is to ground us relative to the path forward as it relates
to our key organizational performance metrics. Recognizing that this body adopted a strategic plan in
August of 2021 that has four strategic priorities, being community value, customer excellence, employee
ownership, and financial success, over the course of the period of this strategic plan, we have been
intentional in reference to garnering opinions, perceptions, and attitudes from not only employees, but
community members as well as actual customers.
Just at the previous meeting, you received a briefing from our third-party consultant in which information
was shared relative to our customer satisfaction as well as our net promoter score. Prior to that, there was
a presentation during the month of July relative to paratransit, and then the employee survey results were
provided to you. Those elements help inform our path forward relative to our strategic initiatives that we
as a agency undertake from a staff perspective to ensure that we are meeting the needs of our
customers, employees, and constituencies.
Those are back to basics, people power, welcoming transit environment, and, most recently, customer
and community connections, in which we are committed to fostering an environment where we can
improve the customer experience. Taking all that information together and coupled with our performance
management process, we as individuals here that comprise the agency have various SMART goals,
being specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and time bound, that are tied to those.
In reference to achieving success for the organization, individual performance goals for employees feed
into work unit goals, division goals, departmental goals, yielding outcomes from the agency that can
consist of being lagging indicators or leading indicators. What we have also done since we had last
convened, I, along with Executive Business Partner McKay, Committee Chair Catlin and Board Chair Erik
Davidson, have gotten together looking at the various aspects of those key organizational metrics so we
can ensure that you, as board members, are getting information that you need relative to the agency's
performance.

This has been a very detailed process relative to getting with business leaders within the organization and
identifying what those metrics will be, recognizing that we're trying to enhance the elements that we were
able to garner from our constituencies through the survey gathering. And then more specifically, we want
to ensure that these are actionable items that can yield success.
And so we're currently in the process. With meeting teeing that up, I am going to yield the floor to
Executive Business Partner McKay so he can explain in great detail what we're doing. We hope to ground
everybody here. And at next month's meeting, we intend to show you a dashboard with the metrics more
specifically so you can have an understanding if this is the direction that this Board, I could say
committee, but then holistically, the Board would like to go.
So with that, Mr. McKay, I will yield the floor to you, sir. Thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. As introduced, I am John McKay, Executive Business Partner.
And just to touch on what GM/CEO Johnson has said before, the performance dashboard is the single
repository for the information that we're discussing here today that is currently being fleshed out, that is
located on the Board's, or sorry, the agency's website. This was launched back in May, and we've had
discussions over the last few months as to what all needs to be populated on that website.
And the Chair has done yeoman's work in populating a very large spreadsheet that we're using as a cheat
sheet behind the scenes here to see what is currently displayed on the performance dashboard, some
elements that need to be bolstered a little bit behind the scenes that we're basically trying to make this
usable for the Directors so that they can share with constituents the information that operational and
perception data that displays how the agency is doing.
So in addition to that, we also have the annual scorecard, which was shared with this committee back in
September, along with the agency performance scorecard, which is the performance scorecard that goes
along with the strategic plan that will be considered by the Board tomorrow during the monthly board
meeting of October. Assuming that is adopted in its current form, then that also, in addition to the annual
scorecard that I just mentioned, will be displayed on the performance dashboard and the data that
accompany those scorecards will be live, or as live as is possible, so that there will be a regular tracking
of that.
In addition to this, there are, at count, I think, about 10 different groups within the organization-- I won't
name them here-- but Capital Programs, Communications and Engagement, those types of organizations
or departments within the organization are responsible for populating data on the performance
dashboard. We are working across the agency to have the folks who are responsible for that data to
automate that reporting process so that it will be updated on the-- I'm looking over here on my other
screen to look at the dashboard-- it will be populated on the performance dashboard on a regular basis,
on as frequent a cadence as is possible.
So for on-time performance data, we imagine that will be done on a monthly basis. For certain perception
data that are based on employee, customer, and community surveys, those will be done on an annual
basis, that kind of thing.
So I will pause here to see if there are any questions from the crowd or to yield back to the Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. McKay. For the record, I noticed that Director Buzek joined us at 8:40.
Welcome, Director Buzek.

Are there any questions from Directors? For Mr. McKay or Ms. Johnson? Seeing none, go ahead, Mr.
McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: I see the Chair's hand is up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually-JOHN MCKAY: No?
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, I'm [MUTED].
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman, you are still on mute.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm working on it. It's a technical thing on my side. Does that work? Yes. All right.
Thank you for bringing this forward again. We do have quite a list of things here that you're presenting to
us. I will point out one thing that I'm really happy to see on there is the ridership numbers, as that
continues to be something that the legislature is talking about wanting to see. And I think we just need to
make it accessible and easy for people to look at it and figure out what it is they're looking at. So I
appreciate that.
I'm also just looking online, while you were going through this, at just what our current reporting structure
is available, right, to the public and what they can find on there. So when we see this next month, how
soon will it be before the public sees this? Because what we see in this format may not be the same. And
I am more concerned about this getting published and being made public then for my own use.
It's cool that I can have it. It's great that I have the ability to find this tool and use it when I'm
communicating with my constituents. But really, the impetus from this came from outside the agency for
the public. And so I'm more concerned with that deadline than anything else. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: I see Ms. Johnson has her hand raised, but I'd like to recognize that Director Guissinger
has joined us as well. Welcome.
Ms. Johnson, would you like to respond to that, or Mr. McKay?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. And thank you, Secretary
Guzman, for your question.
Quite naturally, we want to ensure that the Board has an opportunity to understand what we are putting
forward into the public facing arena. The point is that we want to ensure that you all are comfortable with
it, can be highly communicative about it and understand the nuances associated with it. And then
basically, by virtue of agreement had not alignment, we would then go forward to ensure that that was
publicly transparent, no different as we have done with survey data and things of the like, where we have
brought it in this forum first so you guys would understand.
Mr. McKay, is there anything further that you would like to add relative to my response?

JOHN MCKAY: Just to note that specifically to ridership-- and thank you for the question-- ridership, we
have data, useful data back about seven years now. And that obviously goes back pre-pandemic. What it
will not show is the trend line downward from about 2014. Transit agencies across the country started to
experience a decline in ridership starting about 2014, due to a number of factors, including transportation
network companies and the proliferation of scooters and things like that. So it won't show that there was a
decline starting at that point and it won't show what a trend line would have looked like if there were no
pandemic.
And so the data itself, it's useful to take a look at. There is a new normal. There is a new trend line.
Before, there were about 8.5 million boardings per month. Now we're experiencing about 5.5 million
boardings per month. And that is stable, even if you account for those Zero Fare for Better Air periods in
the last two years-- we obviously could not do this year-- even if you were to show those as a 10% bump
in ridership for those one or two months for those years, even accounting for those you will see that trend
line of about 5.5 million boardings per month is the new norm. So there is conversation about having
more ridership on the system. It's hard to say where that ridership is coming from if this is the new trend
line.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Chair Catlin. And thank you, Mr. McKay, for that
information.
One thing I do just want to put forth as additional color, and I know, Secretary Guzman, you're probably
very familiar with this, recognizing on Transit Tuesdays there's been conversation around ridership and
things of the like and where the transit industry is collectively, recognizing the trends are generally for a
three-year period, and we do know, in reference to all of the economists and forecasters and things of the
like, that that 20% that was lost is for all intents and purposes, probably lost.
And as we look at where we are, the pandemic was nearly five years ago so we're being intentional and
proactive, recognizing that most transit agencies don't use ridership, i.e. as a goal or anything along those
lines, because everything that we do based upon our core business function, is routed into transit service
delivery and those different elements come into play.
So I just wanted to amplify that as we go forward, because basically we are no different than most other
transit agencies in this country, recognizing where we are and what we're trying to really do is hone in on
that customer experience so we create our own promoters as we go forward. And of course, as we look
at a multitude of different elements, and we spoke about this at the last meeting, whereby we are being
intentional when we do comprehensive operations analyses so we can determine where there is potential
for growth, where is there development, looking at land use and looking at business development plans
and things along those lines.
So I just wanted to ensure that there was an understanding of what we're doing as we go forward,
because generally speaking, in reference to data sets, we look at them on a three-year basis going
forward. So thank you very kindly for the opportunity to add that information.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman, does that address your concern at this point? OK, good.
Director Lewis, please.

JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, I'm just curious if we're, on the dashboard, once we make this public, will there be,
like, a suggestion box of some type so people can respond on how, if they're having difficulty reading the
dashboard or suggestions?
And then the second question, are we going to do a review, maybe after six months, looking at those
comments and readjusting the dashboard?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay, would you like to respond?
JOHN MCKAY: There's nothing on the website right now indicating how folks can contact RTD. There are
other avenues through the website itself. If there are comments, there's a customer comment form that's
available, but we could add a link to that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Committee Chair Caitlin, I have my hand raised, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I see that. Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you. So Director Lewis, thank you very much for the question. Mr. McKay
touched upon this somewhat.
We have an open ended comment form. And what we do is synthesize those comments relative to the
different topic areas. And Mr. McKay did reference that there could be a link going forward. But of course,
anything that we do is going to be evergreen, just as we did with our website, and take those comments
into consideration, because we want to ensure, recognizing, I pointed out the strategic initiative that we've
embarked upon talking about the community, the connections and so forth, and we're trying to improve
that experience. So that is something that we will have a laser-like focus on. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And Director Lewis, with regard to your comment about a review after about
six months, I think that's probably a good suggestion to make sure that we can do any kind of course
correction.
Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Caitlin. I'll start with a comment and then I have a specific
metric I had wanted to just put out there for consideration I know we've had some dialogue about.
So first my comment. Ms. Johnson, Mr. McKay, and Committee Chair Catlin, thank you for engaging on
this process. I wanted to make sure that my fellow Directors knew, we did have a chance to put together
a spreadsheet that Executive Business Partner McKay briefly touched on that includes all of the current
metrics that are listed on the public performance dashboard. If I'm not mistaken, that may be 23, and then
there's about 5 or 6 that were sort of additional ones that were put on the spreadsheet. And there's how is
it currently on the website and what should it look like or what would we like to see.
So I think I would invite Directors, particularly those on the committee, if you have suggestions or
feedback on what should be reported or how it should look in terms of how far back data goes, what
methods we use to display that, to submit those, either now in this discussion, I think would be a good
time for that, if you have those, or before this comes before the Board for approval. I know I've benefited
from the opportunity to do that. And in particular, Executive Business Partner McKay, thanks for the help
with that.

One of the ones that I know is not currently on the website, but I've heard a number of times and I know
I've brought up as being something that I think is an interesting thing to report against, is the percentage
achievement to our plan, so our comprehensive operational analysis, or the SOP.
At various points, I know we've talked, and Ms. Johnson, thank you for our conversations on this, around
whether we might use trips, whether we might use vehicle revenue miles, perhaps whether it's multiple
metrics, given that if you're just really looking at one, it doesn't necessarily give you the whole picture.
Particularly in our large area, if you're going a lot of miles, it could skew the number and number of trips
also. There's a lot of short runs that could skew that.
But I wanted to make sure we had just a little bit of air time to see if other Directors have feedback on
that, if Ms. Johnson, if Mr. McKay, you have any thoughts around that. It's one that I find myself asking a
lot as a Director of how are we doing against plan. It's also one that I've heard from the public of, well,
how close are we?
And the final thing I would say is as we prepare for the next comprehensive operational analysis, it'd be
really nice for the Board to know what are some of the metrics we would anchor against to set that plan
and measure our progress. So I think there's a little bit of a question in there, just that Ms. Johnson, Mr.
McKay, if you want to comment on it. If not, I know we've had some dialogue. But also, if there's other
feedback from Directors.
So thank you, Committee Chair Caitlin. I'll stop there.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, and then Mr. McKay, if you'd like to respond.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. And Chair Davidson, I will speak
more broad brush as it relates to a CoA and what might be optimal as we move forward. Recognizing that
it is our intent to leverage a CoA in mid-2025, there's a couple different elements that we have to consider
going forward. Because the intent behind this is to do a true CoA. And what I mean by that is when we
take n-in depth review of our service delivery as it currently stands, looking at the boardings that we have
per hour, what might that mean relative to people power.
And what I will share, just for everyone's edification, and this is coming from a place, because I've been
doing this and I know you guys are the policy makers, but basically looking at it through the lens of when
you develop a schedule, you start-- when you develop a plan to deliver transit services, first and foremost,
you start with the schedule. And in that schedule you discern how many vehicles you need, and then you
go to the people power aspect, and then you go to the management side of it.
But rooted in all of that, for a transit agency, the primary foundational piece is the cost associated with it.
So recognizing that should be the foundational element as we develop our budget, as you have heard me
say on numerous occasions. So with that as a backdrop, as we move forward, we would want to look at
the efficiency of our system and the efficacy of our process as well as we go forward. So during the
course of that process, I think it would behoove us to discern what might be optimal for our transit network
because it's not a cookie cutter approach.
So you made reference, Chair Davidson, relative to our large service area. When we talk about our
service delivery model, considering that we do have 2,342 square miles, would it be advantageous for us
to look at cost per revenue hour via boardings, recognizing that in some other areas we may have

boardings once an hour due to the nature of the less than optimal environment because it may not be as
densely populated, so we may have a mixture as we go forward.
So I provide that backdrop to say, yes, we can look at where we are with the current SOP, and that's
really heavily laden in the people power, since we identify different models in reference to the service
delivery being community routes, local routes and things of the like. So going in, we need to set those up
initially so we know what success looks like as opposed to doing it on the back end.
So I provide that just as some elements. But I'll yield the floor to Mr. McKay, because I know there's been
discussion around where we are collectively and discerning what percentage of the CoA, i.e. the System
Optimization Plan that was adopted going forward and how we're delivering on that, because we are
making some great strides and we'll see an element of achievement more greatly in the 2025 fiscal year.
Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: And thank you for that. Just to touch on specifically the percentage of the SOP, that is
something that the Service Development Division is looking at right now, I think they wanted to make sure
that this particular service change was adopted by the Board before proceeding with that.
And something I did not mention earlier is that for the performance dashboard, staff is also looking at
trend lines for operational goals. So specifically to something like on-time performance, right now that sort
of internal goal is not displayed on the website. So for bus, they use a number of 87% on-time
performance internally as a benchmark. And the plan is to display that overlaying on top of the monthover-month reporting that we're doing right now for that kind of thing. And there are other-- some metrics
don't quite lend themselves to an internal goal displayed on the website. But some do, and we do intend
to publish those marks on the website. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that address your comments, Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, it does. Thanks for the backdrop of the CoA. I guess I'll just respond by saying,
yeah, thank you, Ms. Johnson, for, I think, I look forward to the next CoA process, or at least, I guess,
following along with that, with starting from the schedule more broadly and working back.
And Mr. McKay, thanks for commenting on then the intersection with the other targets. We could say our
schedule has all the trips, for example, or all the revenue miles we planned for but we're never on time
and our availability is terrible. So that's where I'm interested in just, if I think of this in terms of questions,
well, how close are you to delivering against the plan that you laid out, kind of question one.
Question two, how well are you delivering against that plan, which has A, that might be financial, B, that
might be operational, C, which might be how it's perceived or meeting needs. So anyway, thanks for
allowing me to expand on that. I think it sounds like we're going the right direction. And thanks for
touching on the specifics of service planning, dialoguing about that. I look forward to seeing something.
I guess maybe just one quick follow-up question on that. Do we think we would see, before we look at the
final dashboard, when that comes forward for approval, would we see some metric or metrics around that
from Service Planning?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay, would you like to address that?
JOHN MCKAY: I couldn't guarantee it, but I believe that is the intent.

ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Thanks, Committee Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Let's see. Yep, I'm unmuted. Thanks. I apologize for being late. I guess
I have a little grandson on the way today, so that's kind of nice.
This looks good. I have a few questions. I think one of my questions is just what the presentation will
show. I think that, for instance, ridership right now-- I can't say right now, I haven't looked at it for a couple
of weeks. But on the performance dashboard, it just showed March of 2024, which doesn't give anybody
a comparison for what it's been last month or a year before or whatever comparisons we want to set up.
Will that be changing?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay, would you-- or Ms. Johnson, one of you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. I was going to say, we do have that data, because, of course, that's how we
know we're making improvements. So I was waiting for Mr. McKay to showcase how are we going to
depict that. But we do have all that information because I know I review it on a monthly basis. So Mr.
McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Sorry. My audio was dropping out over here. So could you repeat-DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, the question that Second Chair Guissinger asked, relative to our boarding
information that we collect monthly in the showcase, would that be depicted on the dashboard monthover-month, year-over-year for comparative purposes? And I said I believe it would be because we do
have that data readily available. So if you can confirm that.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. I missed that one little snippet of your question. Yes, actually it's displayed
right now. It's by mode currently. We will be adding to that. There is more data to be added to the graph
right now. I think it's bus that shows month-over-month for the last few years, and then rail is just this
year, or up-to-date this year. And all of that data is a little bit in arrears. It takes a couple of months to
verify the counts of the boardings. And so it takes a couple of months to get that on the website.
Right now, it's currently also displayed in the Board briefing documents under the monthly financial
statements that CFO MacLeod produces. But the intent, yes, it is to show additional data on the
performance dashboard in a year-over-year format. And that, I believe, is currently available now, to the
extent-- I'm not sure if you've seen it in its current form, if that's what you're looking for, for bus, let's say.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. You're asking if I'd seen it in its current form?
JOHN MCKAY: If that's what you're looking for, yes. I can display it, if that's helpful.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, sure. Its current form is on the performance dashboard? OK, I haven't looked
at it in a couple of weeks, so I apologize if it's been fixed up.
JOHN MCKAY: So, are you seeing my screen?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
JOHN MCKAY: This is on-time performance. Let me go back to-- one second. This is current through July
by mode. And, like I said, we will be showing year-over-year once we get that data. And Power BI is the
background of this, the software that is pushing out these graphics. It's very flexible and it shows virtually
anything you could want. So we'll be showing year-over-year once we have that data populated in here.
And that's something that we're working toward right now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's very hard to read right now. Yeah, thanks.
JOHN MCKAY: And this will include as far back as we can take it. We'll be showing ridership over that
span.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Yeah. That's what I think we need to include. It sounds like you're on the right
track there, John, just showing it comparison to previous years so people can see how it's going.
On-time performance by mode, it seems like that's going down on buses, that we're doing less well with
on-time performance. I see Ms. Johnson's hand go up. Is that correct? And do we have targets we're
hitting? Those sorts of questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And thank you very much, Second Chair Guissinger, for your
question.
So recognizing as it relates to on-time performance, there is a myriad of different factors. And so, yes, it
has been declining a little bit over the summer due to the fact that there's been extenuating
circumstances. And what I mean by that is if you've been in and around the City and County of Denver,
there's been a myriad of work going on. There's detours and things of the like.
And recognizing that RTD does not have dedicated guideways-- or fixed guideways, excuse me-- we're in
the same mix of traffic, and also recognizing that we don't have TSP, transit signal prioritization, through
all intersections. So those impacts basically have plagued us somewhat going forward, which is
customary. And so as we look at that, we don't extrapolate detours, because just like anybody else in
mixed flow traffic, the nature of on-time performance, because anybody driving an SOV, single occupant
vehicle, that's in the mix of traffic is not going to arrive as well going forward.
But what we are trying to do in working with, say, for instance, I'll use Denver, because they're the largest
municipality and that's where we have the brunt of our service, is working with them in advance so we
have an understanding of what the detours are so we can plan accordingly. But that's factored in as we
go forward so we can talk about where we are and what we're doing.
So I hope that gives some kind of color to the issues that we have been plagued with over the summer,
because it's been a lot of different activity out on the arterioles in which we traverse.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Thanks. My recollection was that it was on-time performance was lower now
than it had been in previous years, not just summer. But I could be wrong on that. But if there is an
explanation like that, I think that would be appropriate footnote put into the dashboard, that these three
months or two months, there was roadwork that was getting in the way. But I think that's good.

Under environmental impact, it says total facility energy use. I think there's some other things we could
put to-- it's almost marketing, but I think that's fair. I think a summary, or executive summary or something
of our fleet and facilities plan could go in there, something about how many cars are taken off the road
with a full bus. Might be a range. You can't say all of it is cars. But the idea is it does do some congestion
relief.
So I'd like to see under environmental impact more than just total facility energy use. I think there are
other things we're doing that could help.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger, I see both Mr. McKay and Ms. Johnson's hands up that they may
want to respond to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: If that's OK. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair. And thank you, Director Guissinger.
Totally amenable to some of the suggestions you were putting forward, but just want to manage
expectations, recognizing during the month of November, we will have a presentation relative to the
facilities and fleet transition plan. We have to ensure we have that information before we can know what
we could possibly use from a metric vantage point.
And then more specifically, as you talked about how many vehicles the bus would take off the road, that's
data that we would have to garner in working with our partners, and that would be purely speculative, as
you know. It's no different from when we did Zero Fare for Better Air. We don't have auspices over that
data. So we have to work with, the DRCOGs and the CDOTs of the world, recognizing that they house
that data going forward.
But there could be some element of it. So I just want you to know that, yes, we're amenable to it. We'll
see what we can do. But I don't know what that is, in the absence of being able to lean in and garner a
better understanding of what might be available.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Got it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. And, Mr. McKay, if you have further information that I don't have, please
feel free to share.
JOHN MCKAY: This is actually about the previous point, about the trend line for on-time performance and
the note about footnotes. That is something that we intend to try to add to the website. It's currently in the
Board briefing documents. There is a note for on-time performance. If there's a dip, there is an
explanation for that. So if there's a severe weather event or things like that, that is shared currently with
the Board on a monthly basis. And we intend to try to incorporate that into the website as possible.
And to your point about looking at the trend line itself, that is one of the intents of having this dashboard
on the website is if you're seeing, if the members of the Board are seeing these things or if you're hearing
these kinds of things from constituents or from fellow electeds, that we're seeing something declining or
we're seeing something greatly increasing, we'd like to talk about that. That is the intent of, staff's intent in
bringing it to this committee so that we can have that discussion here.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Just one more. Well, I'll save that one. But will we see a draft of
what's going on to the performance dashboard? Or see it once it's on, but with subject to
recommendations that where we might say, well, you need more data than this to show the comparisons,
for instance?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much. Committee Chair Catlin. And Director Guissinger, I don't think
you were on yet when, in my introductory comments where I talked about at next month's meeting, our
intent is to walk through the dashboard with all of you so we can more or less get a head nod and you can
share during that time. So that's our intent. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm done.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Tisdale, thank you for your patience.
DOUG TISDALE: That's fine, ma'am. Not a problem at all.
I did want to go back to a comment that General Manager/CEO made earlier that I just wanted to have
some further expansion on. As I wrote it down, GM/CEO said, most transit agencies don't use ridership as
a goal. Or maybe it was as a measure. And because that doesn't really comport with my experience, I
was hoping that you might be able to expand upon that a little bit, just to give us some color to the
observation that you made. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Tisdale, asking for clarification.
So the intent behind my comment basically was predicated upon discussions that ensued with the
Transportation Legislation Review Committee and other topics that have come up during the course of
Transit Tuesdays, whereby a question was asked, why don't we have a goal of ridership? And what I was
sharing is that typically a transit agency, there's not a goal of ridership. We're not saying, oh, we want 100
million boardings per day.
The point of the matter is the nature of what we do generates ridership going forward, and it's not a
strategic goal to have it as ridership. Quite naturally, in reference to the business that we're in, folks are
looking at ridership, but there's different elements that can help generate ridership, i.e. the customer
experience and things along the lines in which we currently have as our strategic priorities going forward.
So that was the intent of my comment.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well, I appreciate that expansion. Thank you. As I say, my sense is that, and
perhaps what you're really saying is, as I'm trying to translate it, is that ridership is definitely a metric that
we gather data on and we see, because it does help us understand how is the money being spent and
how much does it cost us every time a person gets on the bus. The lower the ridership, the higher the
subsidy that we're paying to get that person on the bus. And I do believe that all transit agencies look at
that.

But what you're saying, as I hear it, is the goal really is what's the best customer experience. And that
relates to things like on-time performance and frequency and so forth. So thank you for that expansion. I
appreciate that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. Thank you very much, Director Tisdale. Your summation is absolutely spot on,
because we would not be getting money if we did not collect ridership data, quite naturally, feeding it into
the National Transit Database that then basically comports with the population that goes into the UZAs
that includes the formulaic funding that we receive.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Is that all, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am. Thank you, Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I personally want to thank you for your clarification. That helped me understand
better as well.
I see Director Davidson's hand raised. Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. So because it hasn't come up yet, I just wanted to
highlight, again, there are a couple things we talked about that have made their way in now that weren't
previously on the public facing dashboard, things like budget variance, which I think we're all excited to
see with the previous action we had taken. And I know that there are some things pursuant to SB 24-230
that are getting pulled in for reporting as well. So thank you for considering and looking at all of that.
I just also wanted to touch on the concept of economic impact. And this is one that we've come back to a
couple of times of what the impact to region is. And I know this is challenging, but it dawned on me that
perhaps there is a way to tie several metrics that are actually already existing into economic impact.
things like ridership and boardings could be perhaps one of those.
But also, we tend to talk about our vacancy rates from the position of we want to fill those positions, of
course, so that we can deliver against our plan. But also, those are individuals in the region that are
employed by the Regional Transportation District. And also, we tend to talk about our capital investment
infrastructure, our investment in infrastructure, as being something necessary for preventative
maintenance and so forth. But our capital budget is infrastructure that ultimately the public owns.
So I don't have a great answer, I think, at this time. But I did just also want to highlight that I'm hopeful
that as we develop these dashboards, we can start to get to provide some time to what the economic
benefit to the region is. And it had dawned on me that may be the metrics that we're talking about but sort
of flipped on their head, of ridership, of who we're carrying, the employees that we employ, and the
infrastructure that we take care of that belong to the public. So I wanted to throw that out for a
consideration, if there's a response. I see Ms. Johnson's hand. Great. But thank you, Madam.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Ms. Johnson, would you like to respond?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much. I appreciate the question, Chair Davidson.
And you're spot on as it relates to an economic impact. I mentioned some time ago that we were
exploring the development of an economic impact report. And we're in the process of actually going
further with that to garner participation relative to an institution of higher learning partnering with us so

they can look at that holistically, because we want to look at the economic impact, not just locally, not just
statewide, but nationally as well.
Because quite naturally, when you think about somebody buying something that lives out of state and
they're paying a sales and use tax, that still generates a impact to the Regional Transportation District
that's nationwide, quite naturally. Or when you look at somebody who's traveling here for business that
could be working part of the time here and they're expending dollars and they're utilizing our system.
So we want to take it a lot further than that as we go forward, because really, the transportation industry is
a economic driver, as we clearly have seen throughout the course of the years, recognizing that people
want to do business here because there's a means of transport to get people from the airport into
employment sites or activity centers.
So I just wanted you to know that that's actually on the horizon and I just had a discussion about that the
latter part of last week. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So while we're talking about dashboards and all of this fun stuff, I do have an actual
numbers question. Forgive me if it's a bit out of the spot, but since we're talking about ridership and we're
floating around that. On our communications from the agency, July and August for the last two years have
been higher in ridership numbers, but the trend has always been to beat the last year in ridership going
back to 2021. Actually, 2020, after the real shutdown started, we have grown every year. So just as a
curiosity, is there any reason to expect that we will not rebound in September?
I know July and August, because of the Zero Fare for Better Air the last couple of years will affect that
number. So I'm not too worried about it. But is there any reason to believe that we wouldn't resume
beating the prior year's numbers in terms of ridership going forward
through the end of the year? Thank you.
And then, Erik, ditto. Yes, I agree with what you said about the economic impact report. Sorry, I just want
to give that feedback.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, would you like to reply?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. And thank you, Secretary
Guzman, for your question.
So for all intents and purposes, with the transit industry, typically, as you know, there are seasonal
variations, since that's one of the reasons why we do a, well, it's embedded into our CBA. But when we
look at service changes, we do them three times a year. And quite naturally, you see an uptick in
September going forward.
There's no indication why we wouldn't see that at this juncture, but that's hard for me to put a finer point
on. As we proceed, there could be an amalgamation of different reasons that include activities from
sporting event venues and things of the as we move forward, recognizing that September is like the

trifecta, as you look at football, basketball, and there's hockey as well. So that could have some kind of
seasonal push.
But we don't have any other indication. And I know Mr. MacLeod isn't on the call, but as we look at
individuals in the financial realm that do the forecasting, there is some element where we believe that
there could be an uptick, and that information has been presented to all of you all in the different forums
through Finance and Planning Committee.
So that's a long winded way of saying, yeah, I think so.
PEGGY CATLIN: We will see soon, I guess.
Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I just want to concur with a comment that Director Guissinger
made about the display of the statistics and when there is a reason for something changing, ridership,
whatever it might be, to footnote that, but do so prominently, to explain the reason for it. You know, not
my dog ate my homework kind of an excuse. But when there are real, concrete reasons that we've got a
serious issue, I think it's important that we highlight that so that people can't just look at raw numbers and
say, oh, my god, look at this, ridership is horrible, and not know that there are really reasons for that and
that they may be temporary, in fact.
So thanks. I just wanted to concur with that. I thought it was a good comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Buzek. Director Guissinger.
Director Guissinger, you are still on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. I raised this at the Finance and Planning meeting last week. And I can send
these by email, if that's easier. But I had some questions around the percentage of achievement of the
CoA SOP now. I think that we're probably at a pretty high percentage of achievement, and I think that
would be worth knowing.
And I've also had some questions from others about how many routes were extended and how many
made more frequent, in terms of hours, how many were made more frequent, how many came back, sort
of again in the information we can use for marketing people, even we can use. But would that help for me
to send those questions in to you, Debra? OK, I'll do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other comments or questions from Directors, from committee
members? Seeing-- Mr. McKay, did you have some additional information?
JOHN MCKAY: I do not. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK then. Are there any other matters to discuss today? Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: What does our timeline going forward look like for review and for goal setting for the
coming year from this committee? And I really want to lean in here. I want everybody leaned in on this
conversation, both in terms of format and in terms of how we cooperate and we collaborate and we
communicate, Director Tisdale, on this matter going forward to 2025. Because I think we need, as the
Board, to help drive some of that conversation going into 2025. But we also need to be willing to listen to

our employee who has the biggest stake in this, but we have to guide that conversation. So what does
that look like, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: I am going to ask-- well, I know next month, we have a fairly robust agenda item that
Mr. McKay introduced at the start of this meeting. But then looking further on, I'd like to see if our
Executive Board Manager, Jack Kroll, would like to talk about the timeline.
JACK KROLL: Well, good morning, everybody. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. I think,
Director Guzman, you want to drive some clarity around this question. Are you talking about goals for the
GM and CEO? Are you talking about goals for the Performance Committee?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. It would be the goals for the General Manager/CEO for 2025 going
forward. I think part of doing the review at the end of the year, setting goals for the following year falls to
this committee. It is this committee's responsibility. And we have a lot of work ahead of us, on top of an
election, on top of, on top of, on top of. We've got budget and everything else going on.
So we need to set some valuable and key benchmarks for ourselves to meet our expected work calendar
to finish up the work by the end of the year. And so I'm looking for feedback, because I need to plan my
calendar for the rest of the year around what we need to accomplish here, because I'm very well aware
what will happen in the other committees that I serve on. But this one is still a big question mark for me.
So I'm looking for sort of a feed forward and sort of a directional move so that I can clear space on my
calendar to ensure we can get our work done here. We did start a little bit behind the ball because we
started with the work plan that didn't come out as fast. So we need to make up some time somewhere.
And unfortunately, that means that we will make up the time before the end of this year, I'm sure. We
always do. But we have to drive this process through the end of the year to make sure that it's complete.
And one of the things that happened last year was goals were presented, but goals were presented to us,
not worked on with us to present to the Board. And I don't know that anybody was super comfortable with
that process. And so I'm trying to figure out how we fix that going forward so that that doesn't have a
repeat and we all have the necessary information, input, and buy in to support any goals going into 2025.
So that's what I'm looking for.
JACK KROLL: Great. I can give a little bit of some high level information here, if that's appropriate,
Director Catlin, and then I do believe Director David, or Chair Davidson has had the most substantive
conversations on this topic with GM and CEO Johnson.
So two things. The committee is next scheduled to meet on November 11. However, I believe that there
were some scheduling issues with that date because it was originally identified as the date for which you
all would have the broader performance conversation with GM and CEO Johnson in an executive session
relative to the 2024 performance cycle. That meeting is now scheduled to take place on November 18. So
the Board Office may very well need to do some calendar coordinating between now and the end of the
week to pin down a date for this committee to meet in November if the 11th no longer works.
The second piece is GM and CEO Johnson is afforded the opportunity to propose goals to you all. That's
the initiation of the process.
The third and final bit of high level information I can provide here is that the Board and GM and CEO
Johnson, under the current employment agreement and subsequent amendments thereto, is required to
agree upon those goals no later than January 31 of 2025. The thinking, that deadline used to be

December 31 in previous performance cycles, prior to the 2024 cycle; however, there was, I think, an
acknowledgment by everybody involved that it was a heck of a lot to get done to close out the current
year performance cycle, to pass the budget, to do all of the things related to the end of the year and get
those goals in place.
Further, it was commented upon as that amendment took shape and was eventually approved by
everyone that having the goals be approved or, yeah, goals be approved as part of the performance
assessment framework by January 31 would allow for incoming new Directors to have the opportunity to
comment.
Now, that being said, I believe Director Davidson has had a number of conversations on this front
already, and I think to suggest that this performance framework and set of goals would not be pretty well
understood by all parties by the end of this year would be a bit misleading. I think there would be some
opportunity for new Directors to have some input. But for the most part, this thing is going to be battened
down pretty well over the next 2 and 1/2 months.
And with that, Committee Chair Catlin, I think it would be appropriate for Chair Davidson to chime in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. I would like to call on him, but I would say that I know Director Guissinger and I
have also had a discussion around goals and how this committee might provide input in the development
of those goals. So I'll let you think about that for a minute, Director Guissinger. But I'll yield the floor to
Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair. And thanks, Mr. Kroll. I don't have much more to say
than Mr. Kroll. You touched on all the points I was going to raise around, just to emphasize, we do have
one meeting on the work plan, that November 11th that was being moved to 18th, that includes quite a
few things, just to emphasize that. And that is what we did last year. It has the review of the 360. It has
the evaluation review and the performance review of the General Manager and CEO in discussion item
form, not for action, which would occur in December. That also includes the discussion around the
General Manager and CEO's goals. So it is rather condensed.
I do think that it would be beneficial for, to Secretary Guzman's point, and thank you for the question, or
the comments around this, I do think it would be better for the Performance Committee to engage on an
earlier frame with the General Manager and CEO. We've tended to have this problem in Performance
Committee where we're reinventing the framework each year and then losing the substance in the
process. And I think, woulda, shoulda, coulda, I think next year there should be an opportunity for
engaging earlier on the goals.
And so it might be that we want a dedicated Performance Committee meeting to discuss the areas of high
level interest that the board is seeing and understanding in partnership with General Manager and CEO
Johnson, who's dialoguing with her team about goals, and understand what the priorities are. And then
the General Manager and CEO is recommending goals that this Board then reviews. That wouldn't be
then the first time that we're seeing those. And then ultimately, we're preparing this for action.
And then, yes, I concur with what Mr. Kroll characterized, and he and I had a discussion around the
importance of, although the approval of goals being December 31, I think the Board and the General
Manager and CEO need to have a pretty good handle on what that action will look like by the end of
January. So it may be that we require some polling, Mr. Kroll, on getting an earlier discussion to dialogue
with General Manager and CEO Johnson, who, I think, if she'd like to comment, would be helpful to hear

her feedback as well on the process for goal development and where we are across the entire agency.
But I just wanted to add that to your comments, Mr. Kroll. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Circling back, Director Guzman, does that begin to address your concern?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. I, too, would like to hear from CEO Johnson. I bring this up not to shock and
awe anybody, but I am concerned with the last four months of the year being so busy for myself
personally. I can't imagine it's not busy for others. Holidays coming up, needing to take time off, a pretty
extensive set of work that faces the Board going into the end of the year. And I'm certain that that is also
true for our CEO and for the staff of the agency.
But this is something that I know we, I'll just be honest, I felt like the ball got dropped on it last year as part
of this committee member. And I'm trying not to repeat a mistake of not saying something with enough
time to do something about it. And so just to put everybody at ease, I'm coming from the place of
curiosity. I'm also coming from a place of having a vision on my calendar and knowing that I'm going to be
extremely busy the next few months.
And so anytime we're going to have to put a meeting on the Board, it needs to be, I have to have the
dates now. If I don't have them now, I'm not going to be able to commit to being here for anything further.
And that's a problem for this work. This, above all the other committees that we serve on, because of who
we're working with and the fact that we're dealing with agency numbers, I don't want to be put in a
position of not being able to be present for these conversations.
And so that's why I'm bringing it up now. Thank you for entertaining the question and the comment and I
appreciate everybody's input. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I see Ms. Johnson's hand is raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Caitlin. I appreciate the opportunity to
engage on this topic.
So a couple of things. I do have committee dates on the 11th and 18th. I was unaware that the 11th was
not a possibility, so I would appreciate understanding the path forward as well. So thank you very much,
Secretary Guzman, for broaching it.
As relates to goal discussion, I am more than amenable to lean in sooner rather than later. Quite
naturally, throughout goal development processes, I quite naturally understand the Board's involvement,
as the Board should be as well. Traditionally, having conversations around the subject at hand relative to
the goals and how those might be developed need to happen sooner rather than later.
Because yes, Secretary Guzman, as you so eloquently stated, it's not for shock and for awe, but yes,
oftentimes we are scrambling. And during the course of my tenure here, it's been more or less like that
just by virtue of this agency operating on a calendar fiscal year as opposed to a traditional fiscal year that
leaves us more or less in the face of adversity relative to getting everything done.
So the sooner we can identify paths forward relative to schedules, I'm open to that. And I do have those
dates, as I indicated, on my calendar. But yes, I believe that we need to have some structure around goal
setting. Commonplace is to have an individual that serves in the reviewing standpoint basically putting
forward elements for discussion, because there needs to be a springboard from which we start. And if
there's some deviation from that, I need to hear about that, quite naturally, because their goals are the

ones upon which I will be assessed and quite naturally have to have an understanding of what that is
collectively, recognizing this is the body that will assess me.
So I believe it's a cooperative and collaborative effort as we go forward, recognizing the in and outs and
what would be deemed, as a SMART goal, being specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and time
bound, what that might look like relative to different nuances. And then more specifically, what would be
advantageous too, while there was some slight improvement, but the engagement to do a check-in on
where we are, because I only had one. And what I make it a point of doing is checking in with my teams
on a regular basis, quite naturally. And that's been my MO throughout the course of leading teams for the
past couple of decades. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll, would you like to-- I think we made reference to polling committee
members. We're still looking at the 11th and the 18th?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, Director Catlin, there was some conversation that I can't quite recall that obliged us
to move the performance conversation from the 11th to the 18th. But if the 11th still works, then we will
keep the 11th as a meeting date while still maintaining the 18th for those performance conversations.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: The 11th is Veterans Day, isn't it?
JACK KROLL: We can do some polling, though, regardless, to nail that down.
The second piece that I would add here is that that meeting on the 18th, there was some discussion, as
you may recall, Director Catlin and Chair Davidson, as to whether to calendar that as a meeting of the
Performance Committee or whether to calendar that as a special board meeting. So there's some nuance
to that that I need some clarification on at this juncture and we can get that clarity offline.
But the Board Office will proceed with polling to see if the 11th still works, noting that it is Veterans Day.
That might have contributed to some of the moving of the more substantive conversations that had been
originally scheduled for that day to the 18th.
And then the last thing I'll say with this, Director Catlin, is just please mind the final portions of your script
there. I scripted it out with some different information points available. So I don't want to create any
confusion if you read that verbatim. We will certainly work to schedule a meeting, if not on the 11th, then
sometime there in close proximity.
PEGGY CATLIN: Duly noted. I already had that marked.
Chair Davidson, your hand was raised, but I don't see it raised any longer. Did you have a comment?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm happy to help with the scheduling. I think I recall some of those discussions. And
I'm happy to be polled and work offline. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. Yeah, I will too.
But just as a reminder, we will be working around those schedules. We're going to be receiving, the
Board's going to be receiving the final assessment form for the GM and CEO, and that is supposed to be
distributed by RKL on October 28. And it's currently back from all of us on November 6. So that's a pretty
quick turnaround. And I have received some comments regarding that quick turnaround and some
concern from other Directors not on this committee. But please be on the lookout for that.

And Mr. Kroll, if you could remind the rest of the Board not attending this meeting today that we have that
work to do and it's, as Director Guzman pointed out, it's very critical and very important for us to engage
in that at this time. So that's upcoming.
Are there any other matters? Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, guys. I came prepared today. I do want to make sure that while we work on
planning for the future and we look at work plans and what that might entail for next year, because, I
believe, according to the policy, we are supposed to start setting that up now, at the end of this current
year, to prepare the incoming Board for continuation on the work that we're doing.
To CEO Johnson's point, I don't care how many we plan to put on it, but we put on at least four different
opportunities to have one-on-ones with our employee, or 15-on-ones with our employee, as the case may
be, so that we can do check-ins more regularly. That was a-- and I'm going to call it, right, sorry-- it was a
fail on all of us in this committee to not do that this year at any point other than once.
And I'm frustrated by that, because I believe that that is the appropriate way to go forward as employers
to an employee. And, while we're on the subject, we do have another employee we need to look after as
well. And I think that it would be appropriate, whether through the Chair calling it of the Board, or us
setting the dates, to make sure that we have set aside time on the calendar, that we plan to have checkins more regularly to find out the success of individual goals, work product, what's getting in the way, and
how we as Board Directors might have policy created or make changes for the agency to free them up to
do their work more effectively.
I think we all want their success. I believe that we all want to work in cooperation with them. And one of
the ways that we build or destroy trust between the agency and the Board, and we need it to be strong, is
to have really good connections with our employees. And so I'm going to push again here. And it's not to
be obstinate or to be ornery. It's really just being honest with all of you. My frustration as a member of this
committee is that we haven't leaned in hard enough to do this work.
And so I want to make sure that we're setting ourselves up to be super successful now that we have a
framework for review, we have a timeline, that we plan this out and we have it ready to go for next year so
we can hold ourselves accountable with zero excuses for doing this work and not get distracted on other
things that are not germane to taking care of the employees that we serve so they can serve the agency
and, by extension, our constituents and our customers. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Whoops. I'll call on Director Davidson. You know, I believe that we did have one formal
check-in that we scheduled and then one fairly informal check-in that we had scheduled. So there were
two. But I would concur that maybe four would be a better, more appropriate number.
Director Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. I just want to thank Secretary Guzman and say my recommendation.
Absolutely, having served on this committee and Board for a couple of years here, I've said it in different
forums, I'll say it again here, lock in the process, because it is a lot of time that we spend on the process.
I think what will come out of this year is the framework for 360 review, the framework for how we have
done the short-term goals and the analysis of that this year. I think that those are things we need to lock
in and keep that structure the same so that next year the goal discussion starts earlier and those checkins do happen.

So I just wanted to take that opportunity to say in a different forum another way that, let's not change the
formula this time. And I think that will allow more time for the actual work itself.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. And I actually had a question from another Director not on
this committee regarding the formula and implying that it had changed from January. And I needed to look
into that a little bit more. But I don't think that the intent of this committee was to alter the structure at all of
the formula. OK.
Are there any other matters to come before this committee?
So Mr. Kroll will be polling, and we will lock down the November 11 and November 18 dates as we move
forward.
Anything else? Not seeing anything, we will adjourn this meeting at 9:44 AM. Thank you all for your
participation.
JACK KROLL: Bye, everyone.

