Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 1 of 10

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

December 12th, 2012

Subject:
Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
th
December 11 , 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****
Board Members
Present:
Committee Chair Tobiassen Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Gore, Hoy, James,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle and Walker.
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Directors Cohen, Deadwyler and Tayer

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, John Elias, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Kenn Hardin, James Cook, Eric Farrington, Ericka Franklin, Adrina
Gibson, Gary Googins, Terry Howerter, Ryan D. Hull, Gregory Jenifer,
Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Dough MacLeod, Nate Malone, Brian
Matthews, Barbara McManus, Brenden Morgan, Trent Ratcliff, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Daria Serna, Greg Smith, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Lisa Trijillo, Michael Washington

Others Present:

Claudia Folska, Gary Forbes, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Lee
Johnson, Beth Krueger, Gary Lasater, Stu Livensparge, Judy Lubow,
Jason Simmons, Paul Solano, Larry Tenenholz, Christian Vigil

Call to Order: Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:58 p.m.
Recommended Actions
Director Tobiassen stated that considering the first five items
are housekeeping items would be treated as one item.
Hop Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 2 of 10
to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City
of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas.
This agreement is for calendar year 2013 and is for an amount not to exceed $1,459,589.00.
DRCOG Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to
provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the
Denver metropolitan area. This agreement if for calendar year 2013 and shall be in an amount
not to exceed $730,000.00.
North Front Range Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization
(NFRMPO) to provide RTD support and expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the
Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2013 and shall be in an amount
not to exceed $425,000.00
Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This
agreement is for calendar year 2013 and is for an amount not to exceed $297,000.00.
Cost Share Agreements MAP 21 -5311
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility of Boulder and the Seniors’ Resource
Center to provide RTD financials support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (nonurbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2013 and for amounts not to exceed $335,298.00 for
Boulder County, $300,000.00 for Adams County and $102,248.00 for Jefferson County.
Motion:
Director O’Boyle made the motion to move the five items to the December 18th
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.
Discussion: Director Bagley asked if these are perpetual agreements of if there is a deadline
for them. Bruce Abel stated that the agreements are for one year only. The service
performance will be assessed at the end of the year to determine if performance expectations
have been met and if continuation of the cost sharing agreement is warranted. Performance
will be evaluated according to RTD’s service standards. Nothing in the documents obligates
RTD to renew or extend the agreements.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 3 of 10
Director O’Boyle asked why they call the Englewood shuttle the “Art Shuttle”. Bruce
Abel stated that is how it was branded by the parties involved.
Vote on
Motion:
The motion passed with 11 members in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Gore,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against. Chair Kemp
and Directors Cohen, Deadwyler and Tayer were absent.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Contracted Fixed Route Services 2012 Year End Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer from the purchased transportation service and fuel line
items of the “Group 21” budget to the “Group 23” budget to cover the variation in costs
incurred as a result of adjustments to service levels associated with runboard service changes
in 2012. The total dollar amount of the budget transfer is $350,000 ($200,000 for services,
$150,000 for fuel).
Motion:
Director Anderson made the motion to move this item to the December 18th
Board meeting.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.
Discussion: Bruce Abel stated that effective with the 2012 runboard service changes, RTD
made adjustments in the number of service hours in all the private contract fixed-routes
services. The changes made to Group 21 and 23 resulted in a higher than expected increase
in service hours in the Group 21 contract and lower than expected decrease in the service
hours in the Group 23 contract. There is no financial impact, the Group 21 service contract
has budgeted dollars available to be transferred into the Group 23 service contract in order to
provide additional funding needed for this service contract.
Vote on
Motion:
The motion passed with 11 members in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Gore,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against. Chair Kemp
and Directors Cohen, Deadwyler and Tayer were absent.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Interactive Voice Response (IVR) System for Paratransit and Fixed-Route Information
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
development and implementation of an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system for paratransit
(Access-a-Ride) and fixed-route information with Enghouse Transportation LC for a contract
amount not to exceed $829,393.00
Motion:
Director Malpiede made the motion to move this item to the December 18th
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 4 of 10

Discussion: Bruce Abel stated that this project crosses departmental lines. The goal of the
project is to enhance the efficiency of the services provided by simplifying business process
integration, increasing flexibility and providing efficiency gains in network hosting. This
technology enables interaction between a caller and a computer via the telephone. This will
provide better operations for Access-a-Ride and Telephone Information Center. It will allow
calls to go out 10 minutes before the Access-a-Ride vehicle arrives to the customer’s location.
Director McMullen asked if this is activated by GPS. Bruce responded that the 10
minute notice is activated by the GPS system.
Director Daly stated he is concerned about the advertising with the “MyStop” message.
Bruce Abel introduced Beverly Scott from IT who is the project manager for this project. She
explained that there is a cost for the text messages; however this will allow RTD to offer the
service at no cost to the customer. She explained that the first 90 characters will be the
information about their stop and the rest will be the advertisement. This is only for the text
messages. There are other agencies that are using this. Bruce Abel clarified that there are not
advertisements on the ADA components of this project. Director Daly stated that as long as it
is only for text it is okay for him.
Director James asked where RTD is compared with other agencies across the country in
terms of this technology. Bruce Abel stated that RTD is not the leading agency but is near the
leading edge.
Director McMullen stated that he supports the revenue enhancement whether on rail
advertisements or advertisements in text messages.
Director Tobiassen asked if Access-a-Ride users will be able to make reservation
through this new system. Larry Buter stated that the system has the capability but it’s not
incorporated at this point. He also stated that current hours for Access-a-Ride service
reservations are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 7 days a week.
Director Tobiassen also asked what is going to happen after the first year. Beverly
stated that there are different options but could not provide costs for them at this point.
Director Tobiassen asked for information on the timeline for the project. Beverly expects to
start in January with a finish date of August and they will provide status reports.
Vote on
Motion:
The motion passed with 11 members in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Gore,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against. Chair Kemp
and Directors Cohen, Deadwyler and Tayer were absent.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Award Contract to Supply Sixty-Five (65) HVAC Units (Including Spares) to Replace the
Existing Units on the SD100 Light Rail Fleet
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to award a sole-source contract to Siemens Industry,
Inc. Rail Systems, based in Sacramento, California to supply sixty-five complete HVAC units.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 5 of 10
There units will be used to replace the units currently installed in the SD100 Light Rail Fleet.
Motion:
meeting.

Director Daly made the motion to move this item to the December 18th Board

Director Gore seconded the motion.
Discussion: Austin Jenkins stated that RTD currently operates 49 SD100 Light Rail cars.
The refrigerant used in these HVAC units on the first 31 vehicles is being phased out due to
EPA regulation changes and will not be available for purchase. This purchase will make all
HVAC units the same and will offer fleet wide component interchangeability and compatibility.
Siemens has presented a very attractive quote for the HVAC units; this includes Frames,
inverter units and freight for all sixty-five (65) not to exceed $4,615,000.00.
Director Hoy asked what type of refrigerant is being replaced and who will own that
refrigerant. He stated that this is a very valuable commodity especially if it is not
manufactured anymore as other companies would buy it to use it in their units. Austin stated
that they will have to explore to see who owns that refrigerant. He told the Board he would
get that information to them.
Director Daly asked if this is grant money. Austin stated that the funding for this contract is
part of the 2013 budget.
Director Tobiassen asked if this will require a different power supply. Austin stated that these
are DC units.
Vote on
Motion:
The motion passed with 11 members in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Gore,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against. Chair Kemp
and Directors Cohen, Deadwyler and Tayer were absent.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Updates
Bruce Abel stated that staff will be covering several cost share agreements that are within the
General Manager’s authority of $250,000. They do not require Board action but staff wants
to keep the Board informed.
A-Line Cost Share Agreement
This is to enter into an agreement with Ride Provide to provide RTD support for the A-Line
operations. This agreement is for the calendar year 2013 and shall not exceed$173,891.00.
The Board of Directors in February 2003 approved the discontinuation of services on the
skyRide Route AS beyond the Stapleton transfer station due to low ridership.
The A-Line was created to fill the void left by the elimination of Route AS service to Arvada.
Ride Provide operates the A-Line service and has six vans, 22 employees, and provides
services between Arvada and DIA.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 6 of 10
Funding for this was included in the 2013 budget.
Cost Share Agreements Under $250,000
Bruce stated that these include the Littleton Shopping Cart, a free service available to the
residents of Littleton, the Focus Points Family Resource Center (FPFRC), and the Longmont
Coordination of Services to provide services in Longmont for 2013.
Director Bagley asked what the subsidy for the Focus Points Family Resource Center is per
passenger. Staff stated that currently it is at $9.88 per passenger, which is half of what it
used to be.
Director Gore asked if RTD educates the community about the subsidies they receive. He
mentioned that based on his experience, educating the public helps to increase public
donation. He believes it is important for the general public to understand that the cost is more
than what they pay. Bruce stated that they work with the stakeholders but there is not
donation rate at this point. GM Washington stated that they will start an outreach in 2013 to
the communities with information about the subsidies.
Special Services Third Qtr. Report
Bruce introduced the General Managers present from our contractors and mentioned that they
have included the special services report in the Board packet.
Director Daly stated that looking at the Federal Heights ridership it is below RTD’s standards.
He asked if Federal Heights is paying for that serviced. Bruce stated that they have received a
federal grant with some of the other municipalities; they pay the local match and RTD does not
contribute any money other than staff time. Federal Heights has done some marketing,
specifically with some grass roots efforts. Bruce noted that this service was introduced this
year. This is the 10th month of operation and they anticipated needing to have one year of
service under our belt before we do a serious evaluation.
Director McMullen asked service began for the Tech Center and Belleview. Bruce stated that
they started at the same time as Federal Heights in January and service is funded through a 3
year grant. Director McMullen noted that Lone Tree is still lagging and asked if this is due to
the fact that it is more residential. Staff stated that it is more residential. Staff has talked to
the contractor and they are talking to the drivers about how they can promote the service.
Director McMullen asked how we notify the people that the service is available. Bruce
mentioned that there was a major grand opening at Belleview with IKEA sponsoring it. The
TMO has been instrumental; they performed transportation fairs with many of the corporations
in the area and they are working on one for January. They have been a great asset.
Director Hoy asked what the minimum ridership required is to maintain service. Staff
responded that the minimum is 3 but they would like to see a better performance of 3.5-4 to
be considered healthy. Brian Matthews explained that 3 riders does not mean that they will
keep the service but it’s the minim required. Director Hoy mentioned that Federal Heights is in
his district and he has been talking to the Mayor and the City Council people to have them
promote the service. He thinks we will have a dilemma in a couple of years when they want
to continue service and it does not meet any standards.
Director Bagley asked why the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride seems to be more robust in 2012.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 7 of 10
Staff stated that it is due to the school children. They continue to put the word out.
Highlands Ranch is contacting the schools to make sure they are aware of the service. There
are many children with special needs in the community who use the service.
Third Quarter Report Paratransit Services
Bruce Abel explained that ridership is up more than the revenue hours due to an increase in
productivity. Paratransit Services continue to operate under budget, which continues the trend
over the last couple of years. Looking back to 2005-2006, revenue hours were growing as
much as 7%-10% per year. As we have moved into a program that promotes the cab
services, we can carry more people more efficiently. Since 2008 the growth in revenue hours
in the van services has been essentially flat. We have been able to accommodate the increase
in ridership by having more people ride the cabs. When we take the gasoline prices out of the
cost structure, we have the same cost per rider since 2008 which is lower than in 2007. We
continue to work with the Access- a-Cab and Access-a-Ride. The cost has gone down from
2008.
GM Washington stated that this is something that we have talked about, how we are being
innovative. We are bringing down the cost of paratransit service, which is an issue all over the
country. Bruce stated that we continue to look at ways to improve the quality of services and
manage the project because this is an important part of our overall services.
Director Tobiassen asked what types of complaints are received with regards to Access-a-Cab.
He is not seeing any data on complaints for this service. Larry Buter shared that we have staff
calling a percentage of passengers that took the Access-a-Cab the day before to inquire about
their experience. If there is a problem the customer is asked to contact the cab company. If
the situation is not resolved then we will step in on behalf of the customer.
Director Tobiassen asked if we use any wheel chairs accessible cabs. Staff stated that the
cab companies are realizing that they need to increase their wheel chair accessible vehicles.
They do have some accessible vehicles. Director Tobiassen asked if there is a study that
indicates how it would benefit RTD if they have more wheelchair accessible vehicles. Staff
stated they would look into that. One of the challenges is that the vehicles are owned by
individual operators. These operators often have customers call them routinely to schedule
appointments and do not have any open appointment spaces.
Third Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
Bruce Abel stated that the update is included in the Board packet. He reminded the Board that
a couple of years ago they discussed the increase in complains related to fair policy
enforcement. We set a goal and we continue to operate at that level and they exceed the
requirement. Bruce explained that when we investigate complaints, some are valid and some
are not. Right now there is not means to separate valid from invalid complaints when
reporting to the Board and staff would like to have that conversation with the Board. He
stated we use the CAD/AVL to pinpoint a bus location when we receive complains.
Director Daly asked why the Discourtesy/Operator category is so high. Bruce stated that this
is the category where fare disputes are recorded; he does not know if that is part of the cause.
Staff does play backs and works with the operators to improve their customer service skills
when a complaint is found to be valid.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 8 of 10
Director Hoy asked if drivers have a business card or something that customers can use to
identify the driver. Bruce stated that they do not have RTD provided cards. Riders can ask for
their names or call in and provide the bus number, time and route and the operator can
determine the name of the driver.
Director Malpiede asked why there was such an increase in the numbers for the Bus Did Not
Show and Bus Late categories. Bruce stated that complaints about the bus being late mirror
the on-time performance. This is a result of the service cutbacks that happened at the
beginning of 2012. We have experienced a decrease in on-time performance and we are to
address the poor performing routes.
Director Tobiassen stated that the 330,000 boardings a day and an average of only 1600
complains per month shows a very remarkable performance. He thanked the staff, especially
Mike Gil, for their prompt response.
Third Quarter Report Fixed Route Contracted Services
Bruce Abel stated that the update is included in the Board packet.
Director Tobiassen asked if there is a new provider for Access-a-Ride. Bruce stated that
Verizon is the new name for CUSA. He also asked about the complaints regarding some of
the Access-a-Ride vans that were purchased. Staff stated that those complaints are not
tracked separately from other complaints. Bruce noted that this was a pilot; we have 12 of
these shorter vehicles that were originally going to lead to a total purchase of 90. The
manufacturer has been advised that the purchase will not go through. We are testing some
new vans that are slightly larger.
Third Quarter 2012 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
David Genova stated that the report is included in the packet. He stated that this is the 3rd
Quarter report so when talking about the off duty police officers it only includes Denver.
Aurora will be included in the 4th Quarter report.
Director O’Boyle stated that it would be useful to have some statistical information comparing
previous years to this year with the new fare enforcement policy. Commander Bob Nicholson
stated that we are reporting 20% more tickets on average. Dave stated that as we get more
time with the new law being enforced we will provide some more statistical data to the Board.
Director McMullen would like to see RTD collect the money from the fares or fines instead of
the local jurisdictions. He mentioned that in Dallas the agency sends a notice that if the fine is
paid in advance they get a discount and the agency collects the money. Dave mentioned that
Dallas and other agencies are doing that and RTD is looking into it. We are waiting to see how
the change from a criminal to a civil violation affects it.
Director Bagley mentioned that he receives a lot of questions about the number of fare evasion
on the light rail. There is a need to have information for the Directors, some kind of fact sheet
that will help them address those questions. He stated that it would be valuable to know what
the percentages are, trends, etc. Dave stated that staff can put together a one page fact
sheet addressing those questions. Director Bagley stated that it will be appreciated as we are
going to open the new lines and that will probably generate more inquiries.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 9 of 10
Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Project Status
CAD/AVL Status Update
Director Gore asked what the original timeframe was for CAD/AVL. Eric stated that it was
supposed to be completed by the end of the year. This means they are about 6-7 months
behind schedule.
Director McMullen asked what the installation problems are. Eric stated that the contractor
had estimated 8 hours for each installation and it is taking 16-24 hours. The contractor did do
some retraining of their installers and there seems to be some improvement. Eric hopes by
next month to have a better idea of the improvement.
Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce Abel stated that they have two items, one is the update included in the packet. The
second is a demo for the current and new Board members.
Gary Goggins stated that the update is in the packet along with a copy of the presentation
given to the senior staff providing an overview of the program, where we are, how we got
here and what 2013 has will hold.
Director Tobiassen asked how many people with disabilities have tested this system. Gary
stated that they will have the National Federation of the Blind doing a field demo this coming
Friday. Wheelchairs are not an issue based on the placement of the machines. The biggest
issue is the visual impaired users and he expects some feedback from them after the demo on
Friday. They are meeting at 2:00 p.m. at the Mineral station.
Director Bagley stated that he is really excited to see the Smart Card project move forward and
thanked the staff.
Other Matters
Dave Genova informed the Board that he has an update on the security contract. John Tarbert
mentioned that we just finished the RFP process for renewing the security contract. These
contracts are always 3 years with two 1-year extensions; we are finishing the last extension
with G4 S. We received 3 responses to the RFP. The committee that reviewed the technical
qualities of the responses included John Tarbert, John Perry, Bob Nicholson, an Aurora
Sargent, a Denver Sargent, Mike Gil and Bill Bell. They did the technical scoring and then met
with Linda Wells who did the cost evaluations. The technical aspect is 50% of the evaluation
and the cost factor is the other 50%. The technical evaluations were very close. The cost
proposal was the highest from G4. The new company is Alley Barton. Dave stated that the
contact transition will occur on February 1st. He explained that it is a very common industry
practice for the new company to retain the officers that have already been in place in the
current contract. Ally Barton has put together a transition package for the officers that he is
very happy with.
Phil Washington mentioned that they will see a different uniform and they will have additional
officers due the new lines but otherwise the transition should be unnoticeable.
Director McMullen mentioned that he is satisfied with this.
Director Tobiassen expressed that he thought the current company was very professional and

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on December 11th, 2012

Pago 10 of 10
will be interested in watching the transition.
GM Phil Washington updated the Board about the rail accident that occurred this morning. A
pedestrian was walking on one of the fly overs and was trespassing. He was side swiped by
the light rail and disappeared. He showed up at Mariposa facility later and was transported to
the hospital. At this point there is no information about why he was there, but it seems that
there were no life threating injuries. Bruce stated that they operated a bus bridge for the riders
stranded on the light rail. He also addressed a previous question from Director Tobiassen
about the ongoing IVR maintenance which is approximately $100,000 per year.
Next Meeting Date – January 15th, 2012
Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:10 p.m.

