1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, October 15, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

4:54 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Remote

5:31 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:08 PM
5:26 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:30 PM
5:23 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:30 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:10 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:24 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:32 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

5:15 PM
5:20 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Martha Bembry, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Heather Ellerbrock, Eric
Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey,
Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Judy
McMurphy, Don Merritt, Alice Osner, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff,
Scott Reed, Susan Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster,
Cherie Sprague, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Judy Vialpando, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Dawn Bembry, Dylan Grabonski, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Contactless Card Contract for SmartCard
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to execute a contract with Giesecke & Devrient to
provide contactless smart cards (Contract 13DH023). This award is for a
three-year contract followed by two one-year options. The award amount is
not-to-exceed two million dollars ($2,000,000.00).
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October
29th, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter, Assistant General Manager of Finance and
Administration, explained that this is a request to purchase the
SmartCard media to be used in RTD’s various fare programs
over the next five years.
Sue Sandoval, Accounting Manager, stated that this is a major
part of the SmartCard program. The cards are currently being
utilized for the EcoPasses and CollegePasses as part of Phase
I. In Phase II it will be expanded to include all media. She
said that an RFP was issued on July 15th, 2013. Sue
Sandoval explained that Giesecke & Devrient was selected out
of five firms that submitted proposals. Giesecke & Devrient’s
proposal demonstrated a strong and experienced team in the
transportation industry. She noted they also had high

recommendations from the Massachusetts Bay Transportation
Authority. She informed the Board that the average cost per
card would be $1.05 and have a useful life of 5 years.
Director Hoy asked for clarification if this was just for the card
itself or if it included any processing. Terry Howerter
explained that it was just for the plastic card and storage that
is inside the card; RTD staff does all the processing.
Director Solano wondered if you had to touch the card to
anything to get it to register a trip. Terry Howerter stated that
these will be like the current Eco and CollegePasses that you
tap on the validators. General Manager Washington stated
that you do not need to touch the cards to the validators, just
get them in close proximity.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• 2014 Salaried Benefit Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the 2014 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits
Budget and authorize the CEO/General Manager to enter into an agreement
with the Insurance Carriers.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board at the
October 29th, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Cherie Sprague, Human Resource Manager, explained that
annually staff brings the proposal for the benefit plan to the
Board for approval. She stated that staff’s goal are to 1)
achieve the 2014 budget, 2) continued focus on containing
cost, 3) maintain market competitiveness and emphasis on
improving health and wellness consumerism, and 4) insure
compliance with PPACA – Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.

Cherie Sprague shared that RTD offers two health insurance
vendors. With Cigna there are two plans offered: PPO
(Preferred Provider Organization) and HDHP (High Deductible
Health Plan). These are self-funded plans with a $150
thousand individual stop-loss limit. She noted that the
administrative cost will increase by 0.1% in 2014 for these
plans and there are approximately 460 employees enrolled.
Cherie Sprague shared that the other provider is Kaiser. With
Kaiser there are three plans offered: HMO (Health Maintenance
Organization), DHMO (HMO Plan with deductibles), and HDHP
(High Deductible Health Plan). She explained that these are
fully insured plans that have approximately 200 employees
enrolled. She noted there is a proposed 3.5% blended
increase in 2014.
Cherie Sprague stated that dental insurance will be through
Delta Dental. This is a self-funded plan with a projected 5%
increase in expected claims exposure. She did point out that
there is an increase of 12.5% for the life insurance rates while
the rates for Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability,
Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Voluntary
Insurance products have no increase in premium rates. She
shared that vision insurance will remain through Anthem Blue
Cross – Blue Shield and there will be no increase as the rate is
guaranteed until 2015.
Cherie Sprague explained that the total projection is a 2.9%
increase overall in benefit costs over 2013. She
Director Solano wondered if the rates increase would be paid
for by the employee or RTD. Cherie Sprague stated that
because RTD has had 5 years of salary freezes the
recommendation of staff is to continue to hold cost sharing at
the current level. There will be no increase to the employees
and RTD will pick up the difference.
Director Sisk congratulated staff for the minimal cost increase.
He asked what RTD does when an employee has benefits
through a spouse. Director Sisk also asked what each
employee receives in life insurance and if this will go out to a
competitive bid as it was the largest increase. Cherie Sprague
explained that RTD has an opt-out provision for those
employees who are able to provide proof of other insurance;
they are then eligible to receive a $150 per month stipend.
She stated that life insurance is fully provided by RTD and pay

1.5 times the employee’s annual salary. She said that RTD did
do a Request for Proposal (RFP) this year and found that
retaining our insurance through Lincoln National made the
most sense from a cost perspective.
Director Menten asked how the new healthcare legislation was
affecting RTD. She wondered if as a government entity we
were exempt from some of the new regulations. Cherie
Sprague stated that RTD is not exempt from the Affordable
are Act. She shared that staff has been proactive in ensuring
RTD is fully compliant; all our plans meet the minimum
standards for funding as well as benefit provisions of the act.
Cherie Sprague explained that RTD already offers benefits to
our part-time workers so we also meet the requirements for
part-time workers as part of the Act.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Vice Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors accepts the modifications to the 2014 Fiscal
Policy Statement.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October
29th, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter noted that there was a red-lined copy of the
Fiscal Policy in the October 15th, 2013 Operations and
Customer Service Committee Packet.
Director Menten wondered when the Board began including
the annual review of fare increases. She believed this had
been put in place several years ago. Director Menten
expressed concern in the amount of time it would take for the
Board to conduct an annual review of fare. Terry Howerter

stated that in 2008-2009 there was a period of time where in
order to balance the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) there were
two years in a row when the Board had to increase fares. He
explained that the goal was to clarify that staff would plan
fare adjustments every 3 years but the Board has the option to
consider potential fare adjustments every year. Terry
Howerter said that the fare review has always been in the
Fiscal Policy and happens as part of the SBP process.
Director Solano wondered why the statement regarding
expenditures for Denver Unions Station (DUS) was removed
from the fund balance policies section. Marla Lien, General
Counsel, stated that after RTD acquired DUS, we entered into
an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with CDOT, DRCOG,
and the City and County of Denver. RTD was paying all the
operating costs but other entities wanted us to be accountable
for the revenue and know that it was dedicated to the
redevelopment of DUS. She explained that DUS is fully
funded so the statement is moot.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

• Certification of the 2014 Contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried
Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a
specified monthly benefit at retirement, at the actuarial recommended
amount of $3.1 million. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of
Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to the Salaried Employees’ Defined
Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified
amount to the plan for each year of employment, at a rate of 9% of each
participant’s eligible compensation.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October 29th
Board Meeting.

Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Terry Howerter stated that the Defined Benefit Pension Trust
(DB Plan) was closed in 2007; new employees now go into
the Defined Contribution Plan Trust (DC Plan). He explained
that in 2013 the Board set the contribution for the DB Plan at
a fixed annual amount of $3.1 million as recommended by the
actuaries. That contribution should fund the plan through the
exit of the last employee in the plan. He noted that staff was
requesting the same contribution for 2014. Terry Howerter
said that the DC Plan contribution rate has been set at 9%
since it first began; it was equal to the DB Plan contribution at
that time. He stated that the recommendation is 9% for the
DC Plan for 2014.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• 2014 Budget Update
Jannette Scarpino, Budget and Financial Analysis Manager, reviewed a
Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the October 15th,
2013 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda packet.
Director Folska wondered if when finished FasTracks projects begin
operations, like the West Line, they are included in Base operations going
forward. Jannette Scarpino stated that staff reports on the West Line
operations separately; it is budgeted for separately, costs are allocated
separately, etc. She explained that the budget includes the Base System,
FasTracks Construction and FasTracks Operations.
Director Tobiassen asked for a breakdown of the $11 million budget for
Denver Union Station Operations. He also noticed a cap of 400K and
wondered why this was removed. Jannette Scarpino stated that she would
provide the breakdown. Terry Howerter explained that the $11 million
budget was from the sale of Lot A; the proceeds were used to fund DUS
along with $1 million from Base sales tax. He said that there is $10 million
anticipated form the sale of Lot B in 2014.

Director Bagley shared with the Board that he had a 45 minute tutorial with
Jannette Scarpino. He thought it was very helpful for him to understand the
budget more thoroughly. He suggested that every member of the Board
take Jannette Scarpino up on her offer to meet. Director Bagley feels that it
is very helpful from the perspective of terminology. He noted that most of
the Board members, including himself, do not have degrees in finance. He
stated that the Board members are stewards of RTD’s assets so the budget
is one of the most critical items the Board approves. Director Bagley
thanked Jannette Scarpino for her time.
Director Sisk said that he too spent time with Jannette Scarpino and it was
very helpful. He noted that he looks forward to seeing a list of projects that
are carried forward when it is available. Director Sisk expressed concern
that we are budgeting for projects and then not getting them finished. He
commended staff for the rainy day fund. Jannette Scarpino stated that a list
of projects would be presented to the Board when staff brought the budget
for approval in November.
Director Hoy stated that he does not believe the sales tax forecast accounts
for the potential to work with the State of Colorado on sales tax audits. He
wondered if it did include the new goods RTD can now tax. Janette
Scarpino stated that Director Hoy was correct. It did not include the audits
but did take into account the sales tax parity.
Director Folska commented that she agrees with Director Bagley. The
budget is very complicated and a huge piece of information to review and
understand. She noted that MBAs and business degrees really do not teach
finance. She thanked Jannette Scarpino for her time meeting with her.
Director Folska stated that many of our projects happen in spurts and fits
because of how the Federal Government gives RTD funding. She believes
that is what makes it very difficult to understand the budget. Jannette
Scarpino stated that is correct; that is why staff delays capital carry forward
to the end of the year because they want to be as accurate as possible.
Director Bagley asked if the full amount of a project is put into the budget
when it is started. Jannette Scarpino stated that the full amount for that
year is included in the budget, not the entire cost of the project. Terry
Howerter highlighted that staff makes sure we have the funds available
before they ever ask the Board to contract for something. He stated that
staff does not want to begin a project they cannot completed.
General Manager Washington stated that the strategic objectives that the
Board and staff agreed on at the retreat in March drive the 2014 budget;
those strategic goals are reflective of the 2014 budget going forward.

General Manager Washington pointed out that in 2009 there was a 10%
drop in sales tax. He noted that this is what lead to RTD not being able to
get as much done on FasTracks as was first projected. General Manager
Washington stated that even though we have had some good figures since
that time it is very difficult to recoup that kind of a loss.

• August 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report
Terry Howerter noted that everything on the dashboard is green. Year-todate ridership is up 1.0%, fare revenue is up 4.9% and Sales and Use Tax is
up 3.8%. He explained that the fare revenue increase is still being attributed
to the change in media for the federal agencies that moved out of the
EcoPass program to the FlexPass. He said that the primary drivers to Sales
and Use Tax are new car sales, car parts and repair, full service restaurants
and electronic sales. Terry Howerter stated that bus service was down
445K, West Line ridership is at 1.412 million, and other light rail ridership is
down 442K.
Terry Howerter commented that when you look at the actual Sales and Use
Tax for August it shows an increase over the prior year of $2.268 million or
5.9%. He pointed out that staff tries to take the actuals and tie them into
the CU-Leeds forecast. Terry Howerter explained that in order to meet the
Leeds forecast of 5.8% year-to-date RTD has to have pretty good months of
about 9.5% increases over 2012. He stated that he is cautiously optimistic
but he hopes to see the revenues come in at those levels.
General Manager Washington stated that cautious optimism is the theme of
RTD. He said that staff is studying what impacts will come out of the flood
as well. General Manager Washington noted that there will be a lot of
purchasing of materials to rebuild so staff is monitoring that to see the
impact it has on the Sales Tax revenue.
Director Folska asked where the 1% increase in riders was coming from.
She wondered if this was riders moving from but to light rail or actual new
riders. Terry Howerter stated that it is new ridership. He said that while
bus and light rail outside of the West line are down, overall the West line is
up so there is a growth factor.

D. Other Matters
Chair Anderson shared that she attended the US 36 Uptown Avenue Ribbon
Cutting Ceremony. Director Lubow gave remarks on behalf of RTD and Directors
Sisk and Lasater were in attendance. She stated that this bridge has taken over 20
years to get done so she was very excited. Chair Anderson said that she also
attended the East Corridor Open House along with Director Walker and former

Director McMullen. She stated that this was really a fun event with over 400
people attending.
Director Bagley noted that he called-in to the October 8th, 2013 FasTracks
Monitoring and Planning and Development Committee meetings. He shared that he
thought the system worked very well. Director Bagley also reminded the Board
that the 3rd quarter General Manager survey was sent to them on October 14th,
2013. He said that the survey will be open until October 28th, 2013. Director
Bagley expects that all members of the Board respond and complete the survey.
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee will
review the results in November.
Committee Chair Walker commented that the East Corridor Open House was a
fantastic event. He said the residents were very engaged and asked great, well
thought-out questions. He hopes to see a lot more of these types of events.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 19, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:39 p.m. to the Operations and
Customer Service Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

