Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 16, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Special Recognitions



Youth Art Program
Retiring Board Members

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 25, 2014

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of Proclamation for Director Daly

B.

Approval of Proclamation for Director Rivera-Malpiede

C.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors reappoint three members of the Regional Transportation District’s (RTD)
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint three
new members to the Committee to a three-year term.
D.
Recommendation for Contract Award to Mass. Electric Construction Company
(MEC) for On-Call Systems Construction Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Mass. Electric
Construction Company (MEC), the most qualified firm based on the application of the
evaluation criteria, in the amount not to exceed $67,229,300 for On-Call Systems
Construction Services Contractor. The work in this Contract includes providing new,
retrofit, and emergency construction services for the Overhead Contact System, Traction
Power Systems, Fare Collection Systems, Signal and Communication System, and
Trackwork construction services. Funding for the contract award is included in the 2015
Adopted Capital Budget for current year projects. Funding for future year projects will be
authorized in future year budgets.
E.

Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.
F.
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2014 Appointment of Trustees to the RTD Pension
Trust and Defined Contribution Plan

XII.

Recommended Actions
G.

Approval of On-to-Off and Onboard Passenger Surveys Consultant Selection

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract to ETC Institute for the completion of an on-to-off and onboard passenger
surveys project for an amount not to exceed $1,435,000. Funding is included in the
FasTracks 2015 budget.

H.

Approval of 2015 Final Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the 2015 Final Performance Measures proposed recommendations
for Goals 3.1, 6.2, and 6.3. The final recommendations for these goals are made after
the 2015 Budget is adopted in November to reflect budget estimates.
I.
Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Regarding Defense of RTD Management
Trustees Appointed to RTD/ ATU 1001 Trusts
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing retention of defense counsel and
payment of all defense costs, and procurement of insurance if available for management
trustees appointed to the RTD/ATU 1001 Health and Welfare and Pension Trusts, without
reservation of rights of recovery of such costs regardless of any determination of liability,
to the extent such defense costs are not covered by the trusts or their insurers.
J.

Enhance IT Disaster Recovery Capabilities

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to take all necessary actions and to execute all
documents necessary to partially fund Information Technology’s Disaster Recovery (DR)
infrastructure and systems. This is an amount of approximately $1.2 million.
K.

Englewood Art Shuttle

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2015 and is for an amount not to exceed
$282,000.00.

XIII.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) Personnel Matters, General Manager Performance Evaluation

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Resume from Executive Session to Board Meeting

XVI. Recommended Action
L.

Resolution No.__, Series of 2014 General Manager Performance Evaluation

XVII. Old Business
XVIII. New Business

XIX. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

