Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 12, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 12, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 12, 2008
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez, Secretary McMullen;
Treasurer Tayer; Directors Chacon, and Daly

Board Members Absent:

Director Busck

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Paula Perdue

Others Present:

John Fleck, AFL-CIO

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:05 p.m.

I.

Update from Metro Mayors Caucus
Chair Kemp introduced John Fleck, President of the Denver Area Labor
Federation, AFL-CIO and moved this discussion item to the front due to
John’s scheduling constraints.
Chair Kemp shared that he wanted to present these issues to the Board
and determine if the Board wants to take a position related to the “right
to work” issue on the ballot. Extensive discussion occurred including
questions on if RTD has taken a position on issues in the past that were
not directly transit related. The concern was expressed that whatever
the Board decides to do it should be from the context of providing an
objective and comprehensive review of all the initiatives on the ballot and
their impact on RTD.
John Fleck discussed the two items that the union dropped today,
6/12/08, in a conciliatory motion. The UFCW pulled the initiative to
increase commercial property taxes by tweaking the Gallagher
Amendment and the initiative that called for an annual cost-of-living
increase for employees of companies with more than 10 employees.
Director Martinez made the point it is important for the Board to be
educated on the various initiatives that could affect transit and that the
Board need to be proactive in understanding the issues.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 12, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6
Based on a suggestion made by Director Chacon, the Committee agreed
to place this item on the Legislative Committee agenda for July 1 and
request staff to compile a collective list of ballot initiatives to identify
which ones may impact on RTD or transit.
II.

June Board Meeting Agenda Review
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager filled in for Cal Marsella, General
Manager and stated that all items had been reviewed in previous
committee meetings. No changes were noted.


Unanimous Consent
 Approval of a Contract for Construction for Centrepoint &
Sable Bus Transfer Center
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or designee, to execute all documents necessary to
award a construction contract to Paramount Construction in
the amount of $1,498,708.24 for the Centrepoint & Sable Bus
Transfer Center in Aurora. Funds are currently programmed in
the 2008 RTD budget.


Approval of the Sale of 3,043 Square Feet of RTD property at
Colorado Station
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to sell 3,043 square feet of real property
located generally on Colorado Center Drive, City and County
of Denver to Lincoln ASB Colorado Center, LLC subject to
RTD’s retention of a permanent non-exclusive easement for
transit purposes including a bus stop, pedestrian access, and
passenger boarding area. It is further recommended that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to negotiate and execute all documents that may be
necessary for the cooperative design, development and
maintenance of the arcade design with parking above and
below the bus drop off area.



Release of Rail Passenger Service Easement at Mississippi &
Broadway, City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to release a portion of the Rail
Passenger Service Easement on a parcel of vacant land near
Mississippi and Broadway, City and County of Denver

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 12, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6
containing an area of approximately 48,479 square feet or
1.113 acres.


Approval of the DUS Preliminary Design Intergovernmental
Agreement between RTD and CDOT
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) between the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) and the Regional Transportation
District (RTD) for the purpose of securing the first increment
of the Federal Projects of National and Regional Significance
(PNRS) grant for Denver Union Station. The total amount of
the IGA is $5 million and includes both federal and RTD
local match for the Denver Union Station (DUS) preliminary
engineering phase.
The 2008 funding plan for DUS
assumes the receipt of the funds.



Approval of Federal Center Transit Oriented Development
Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary for the development of a minimum 1000
space parking structure, a 16 bay bus transfer facility,
pedestrian connections and plazas, and various street, access
and infrastructure improvements to be designed and built by
Aardex LLC with a financial contribution from RTD in the
amount of $12.609 million, the successful proposer on RFP
#17-FH-004 and to transfer the ownership of approximately
10 acres of vacant land owned by RTD to Aardex, LLC. It is
further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents that may be necessary for the cooperative design,
development and maintenance of the parking structure. Funds
to cover these costs are included in the 2008 Adopted Budget
and the FasTracks Financial Plan.



Approval of Contract Amendment with David Evans
Associates for West Corridor Consultant and Design Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager or his designees to execute all documents
necessary to award and implement a contract amendment to
David Evans and Associates (DEA) for $7.6 million for services
needed to bring the construction documents from 90% to a
conformed set for issue to the contractor and for design

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 12, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
services during construction. The total DEA contract value
after this amendment will be $29 million. Funds are included
in the 2008 budget for the West Corridor.




2007 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee
that the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record
the various audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2007 as prepared or reviewed by the District’s
independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.

Recommended Action
 Approval of West Corridor Budget Modifications and Limited
Notice to Proceed Construction Contracts
It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to take the following actions in regard to the
West Corridor cost, budget and scope and also provide the
General Manager or his designee with the authority to enter
into a contract with Denver Transit Construction Group
(DTCG) (the Civil Contractor) and Balfour Beatty (the LRT
Systems Contractor) for the West Corridor Construction
contracts. Specifically the General Manger is authorized to:


Revise the West Corridor cost and funding from $634.7 million
to $707.6 million due to additional dramatic cost spikes to the
construction industry for steel, concrete, copper, labor and
fuel that are affecting bid prices for major construction
projects worldwide and creating a challenging cost climate
including the recommended reallocations as specified in the
Financial Impact section of the report.



Scope Changes- Proceed with scope deferments of
approximately $ 28 million and prioritize restoring these items
in the future in the event that contingency funds are available
prior to the completion of the West Corridor. This is similar to
the process we used for the Southwest and Southeast
Corridors. The current contingency line item budget is $ 39
million. This list of scope reductions and deferments would
meet our cost challenges while maintaining essential elements
of the transit project (See below).



Provide the General Manager or his designee with the authority
to enter into a contract with Denver Transit Construction
Group (DTCG) (the Civil Contractor) and Balfour Beatty (the
LRT Systems Contractor) for the West Corridor Construction
contracts with a “Limited Notice-to-Proceed”. The Limited
Notice-to-Proceed will allow the DTCG GMP to be locked at

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 12, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
$338.7 million and the Balfour Beatty GMP to be set at $62.6
million and shifts the risk on future cost escalation to the
contractors, and up to approximately $ 5 million to the
contingency, and will allow initiation of limited performance
based on task orders to be issued by staff and paid out of
currently budgeted, authorized an appropriated West Corridor
funds. Notice-to-Proceed under the full scope of the GMP for
both contractors will be made contingent upon the receipt and
approval of the Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) by the
RTD Board of Directors and will require a subsequent Board
action and contract amendment. Task orders will be issued to
keep this project on schedule.


Approval of August 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the August 17,
2008 Service Change package as revised and summarized on
Attachment on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings
of approximately $3,541,400, and, further, to authorize the
General Manager to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion
to move the June Board agenda to the
full Board meeting on June 17th.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director Tayer requested if the August
Service Changes could be moved to
the first item under recommended
action. The Committee agreed to this
change.
The motion passed 4 in favor and
0 against.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 12, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6

III.

IV.

Board Participation at TLRC Presentation at the Capitol
Bruce Abel segued into this item from the ongoing discussion around
legislative input and shared the request made by Representative McFadyen
for more Board Members presence at the July 23, 2008 Transportation
Legislative Review Committee presentation by Cal Marsella (also referred
to as RTD State of the Union). The Committee requested that this item is
added to the July 1 legislative agenda for discussion and that staff would
develop some talking points for them.
Other Matters
 APTA Customer Service Peer Review
Bruce
Abel
indicated
this
item
was
discussed
at
the
Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting on 6/11/08 and
requested direction on how to proceed with this. He needs direction
from the Board on whether to invest the $12-14K cost for this service
given the focus on the budgetary concerns.
Chair Kemp has asked to have this issue discussed at the June 17 Board
meeting under unfinished business.


Proactive Legislative Outreach
Director Chacon emphasized the importance of being proactive with
legislative on a number of issues such as eminent domain, sales tax
revenue, and educating them on the issues. Director Martinez added
that we need to be working proactively to capitalize on our
relationships not only with legislature but other municipalities, counties
and agencies that supported the passage of FasTracks.
Bruce Abel summarized the request from the Committee as placing an
item on the Legislative Committee July 1 meeting as “open
conversation for Legislative strategic planning for the year”.

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:50 p.m.

