1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
John Tayer, District O
Tom Tobiassen, District F

SPECIAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 8, 2013 at 5:30 PM

Special Board Meeting
Chaired By Chair Pro Tem Tayer

I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

RTD Color Guard
The RTD Honor Guard made the presentation of colors.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer expressed his appreciation to the Honor Guard for presenting
the colors at the meeting. He thanked them for volunteering their time to RTD.

III.

Installation of New Board Members
Former Denver District Chief Judge Larry Naves officiated over the swearing in of
Board members. The following first time Board members were sworn in: Directors
Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Menten and Solano. The returning Board members for a
second term were: Directors Bagley, James, Tobiassen and Walker.

IV.

Roll Call

Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson

Director, District L

Present

5:38 PM

Kent Bagley
Jeff Walker
Bruce Daly

Director, District H
Director, District D
Director, District N

Present
Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:33 PM
5:40 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Present

5:09 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Angie Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:12 PM

John Tayer
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District O
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:33 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:45 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:33 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:36 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:35 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Fulton Bell, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, G. Johnson, Erin Klaas, Fernando Macias, Dustin Martinez,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, John Shonsey, Jim Starling,
Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Greg Thompson,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan
Wood

Others Present:

Greg Amparano, Margaret Atencio, Ellen Belef, Karen Benker, Mary
Jane Brady, Joy Calabreese, Margi Clute, Eliza Cummings, Michael
Cummings, Z.J. Czupor, Marisa Dirks, Andrea Eichman, Carol
Esquibel, John Esquibel, Ahmed Gamamo, Joni Goheen, Sherman
Hamilton, Dale Honor, Nikki Jackson, Jeff Kraft, Jan Lasater, Shari
Malloy, Mariah Martinez, Julie McKenna, Bert Melcher, Bill Mosher,
Judge Larry Naves, Justin Newton, Ashlee Odbayar, Brenda Oster,
Daryl Oster, Joan Peck, Jacalyn Right, Bernie Rogoff, Antonio Rozier,
David Ruchman, Ali Shaikh, Sabine Shaikh, Roger Sherman, Chelsea
Solano, Judy Solano, Manuel Solano, Dan Strammielb, Chris Taylor,
Carol Tobiassen, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson, Barbara Yamrick

V.

Election of 2013 Board Officers
Chair Pro Tem Tayer explained that this is the Board’s annual opportunity to elect
the leadership of the RTD Board. He stated that this is very important in terms of
how the meetings are run.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer reviewed the process of nominating and voting on a candidate
with the Board. The positions up for appointment are Chair, First Vice Chair,
Second Vice Chair, Secretary and Treasurer. The first step is to ask for
nominations from the Board for the position and then Chair Pro Tem Tayer will then
ask for a second for each of those positions. When it appears there are no more
nominations he will close the nominations. Each Board member who made the
nomination will be allowed to speak for three minutes and the nominated Board

member will be allowed to speak for three minutes. The Board members will be
given a secret ballot to vote and those will be tallied by two Board members
appointed by Chair Pro Tem Tayer. RTD’s Deputy General Counsel Rolf Asphaug
will work with the two Board members to tally the votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer explained that in order for a candidate to be elected they must
have eight affirmative votes. If there is a round of voting in which no candidate
has eight affirmative votes, the voting process will be repeated. Chair Pro Tem
Tayer said he will ask each nominee if they wish to continue in the process and the
floor will be opened for additional nominations. If there are additional nominations
the Board member who made the nomination will be allowed to speak for three
minutes and the nominated Board member will be allowed to speak for three
minutes. The voting process will be conducted again and this process will continue
until a nominee receives eight affirmative votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer asked the Board if this was an acceptable process. Director
Anderson expressed that parliamentary procedures do not allow for additional
nominees after the nominations are been closed for the first time. Chair Pro Tem
Tayer asked if this was acceptable to the rest of the Board and the Board was in
agreement. Rolf Asphaug confirmed that this was in compliance with Robert’s
Rules.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer began by entertaining a motion for the Chair of the Board.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to nominate Director
Folska to the position of Chair of the Board for 2013.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Tobiassen extended a warm welcome to the newly
installed Board members for the first Board meeting of the
New Year. Director Tobiassen stated that for the past five
years the Board has been Chaired by a phenomenal person,
Lee Kemp. He believes that Chair Kemp went above and
beyond the call of duty, making himself available five days a
week. In Director Tobiassen’s opinion he really raised the bar
for the Chair position. He believes the bar was set so high
that the Board expects someone to sacrifice as Chair Kemp
did. He stated that Board members are all equally elected by
their constituents to represent their interests in the Board of
Directors and all have one vote. He believes that all Board

members are equally eligible to fill this position. There are no
rules, qualifications, time in service, experience, leadership
qualities or IQ that have been laid out in State statute or Board
rules as to who can be elected as Chair. Director Tobiassen
explained that he makes his decision on who he will choose
based on criteria that is important to him: passion, intelligence,
integrity and experience. He stated that most importantly he
is looking for someone that will really work to build strong
relationships through a careful listening, patient and caring
process. He believes observing how one responds under
pressure or how they respect the varying and diverse opinions
of other members of the Board are very telling signs of how
they might lead. He explained that for these reasons he is
nominating Director Folska. He believes she has proven
herself time and again in many of the qualities that are
important to Director Tobiassen. Her passion for public
transportation though her involvement in working to make
RTD the best it can be is very important. Director Tobiassen
also believes that Director Folska’s election to Chair will send
a very strong message to our constituents that the RTD Board
has the vision and guts to elected a transit dependent Chair
from the disabled community. He feels that race and gender
do matter to our constituents but he also believes that
disability matters.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to nominate Director
Anderson to the position of Chair of the Board for 2013.
Director James seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley expressed his appreciation to the Board for
their time. He stated that he has known of Lorraine’s
background for some time because of his strong and longtime
relationship with the former Mayor of Littleton, his hometown,
but he did not know her personally until after her election in
November of 2010. He said that shortly after the election he
asked to meet with Lorraine to discuss RTD and FasTracks.
Lorraine was more than happy to give him the tour of
Downtown Arvada. He was interested in her perspective of
the new Gold Line opening in Arvada and the Eagle P3 project.
Director Bagley was also interested in the elements that

Lorraine shared about her and Arvada’s involvement in the
completion of the Gold Line. This meeting and subsequent
meetings have revealed that Director Anderson’s involvement
and support in the completion of the Gold Line have really
been critical. Director Bagley stated that the issues that relate
mostly to the Gold Line are her specific support of Transit
Oriented Development and enhanced attention to looking at
transit parking in Arvada a different way. Director Bagley
believes this shows a tremendous background and reservoir of
knowledge on Director Anderson’s part. He feels this can be
transferred to other corridors. Director Bagley shares that he
is astounded at Director Anderson’s accomplishments at the
municipal level and as a small business entrepreneur. She has
a background of working with local governments to come up
with win-win solutions to complex problems. He believes her
efforts as a former member and Chair of the Denver Regional
Council of Governments and as a member of the Colorado
Municipal League demonstrate her ability to work
collaboratively with others and get issues resolved in a
nonpartisan manner. Director Anderson’s vision for the future
of RTD is consistent with what needs to be demonstrated by
the RTD Board. He stated that this includes the necessity on
the part of the agency to be held as a trusted partner by all of
our stakeholders. This includes the Federal Government, the
State Government, the State Legislators, Metro Mayors,
significant contractors such as Kiewitt, and the public.
Director Bagley feels that her 24 year background in municipal
governance is a significant demonstration of this grass roots
citizen perspective. Director Bagley stated that 2013 will be a
significant year for RTD and having a Chair with the previous
demonstrated qualities of cooperation, collaboration and trust
as all level would be paramount in the agency’s continued
delivery of transportation mobility option.
Motion:

Director Walker made the motion to nominate Director
Malpiede to the position of Chair of the Board for 2013.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Walker stated that he believes Director Malpiede has
the experience to be Chair of the Board from working with

neighborhood groups, grant writing, and land-use planning to
having a critical eye on the policies that the Board sets forth.
Director Walker feels that she has a passion for our most
vulnerable constituents. Director Malpiede has worked to
assist those who are looking to build small businesses as well
as their personal professional skills as she has demonstrated
through her efforts on the WIN program. He also believes she
has shown her dedication to RTD by her serving as Secretary
and Chair of the DBE Committee.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared the nominations closed. He
asked the nominated individuals to address the Board.
Director Folska thanked the Board, staff and constituents.
She acknowledged Bert Melcher, the first Chair of the Board of
RTD. She stated that without Bert we would not be here
today. Director Folska expressed that it is an honor and
privilege to serve the constituents of District E. She believes
that this is an important job and is very excited to be part of
the Board. Director Folska stated that she believes she could
be an excellent Chair to lead through consensus and
consensus building to complete FasTracks by the year 2020.
She understands that RTD has focused on a lot of different
communities, particularly those that are most vulnerable. She
believes one of the gold standards for RTD is the blind model.
If RTD can create transportation systems that provide
accessible transportation to people who are blind or otherwise
disabled then anyone can use them. She said she is very
excited to be here and looks forward to working with everyone
collaboratively. Director Folska stated that voting for her will
take a lot of courage and vision but she believes she will be a
good Chair.
Director Malpiede thanked Director Walker for nominating her.
She stated that she was feeling very humbled and honored by
this nomination. She is a native of Denver and has raised her
children here. Director Malpiede explained that for the last 38
years she has committed herself to serving her community.
Director Malpiede worked for the Girl Scouts for 20 years
developing programs for high risk girls. She stated that all of
her programs became national models because she would go

to the community that she was going to serve to ask them
what they needed. She was the public relations director for
the Rocky Mountain News. This allowed her to work with
every facet of our community. Director Malpiede said that she
has worked with the Stapleton Foundation for the last 12
years under the sustainability initiative. She explained that
she has focused those 12 years on alternative transportation
methodologies. Director Malpiede has served as the
Transportation Management Association Director and just
completed the master plan for transit oriented development in
Central Park. She also explained that they just garnered the
last $12 million through a grant to build the interchange over I70 which was crucial to the Stapleton Redevelopment Project.
Director Malpiede stated that they just instituted the first bus
service between Central Park Boulevard and Fitzsimons. She
feels that she has worked very hard to make sure our voice is
heard. She stated that she has been privileged to serve as the
Chair of the DBE Committee. Director Malpiede has also been
asked to serve as a moderator at two national conferences.
Director Malpiede believes that the RTD Board is the voice of
the community and as the Chair she would represent a broad
perspective.
Director Anderson stated that she is a native of North Denver.
She said that she has spent over 24 years working as a grass
roots citizen in Arvada. She served on the Arvada City
Council for 24 years. She explained that one of the major
interests in Arvada was to have rail transit serve the city. The
City Council worked to make the City transit friendly by
changing the zoning codes early on to allow for higher density.
Director Anderson said if there is one thing people do not like
more than sprawl it is density. She said that it was not an
easy job to get the City transit friendly. Director Anderson
stated that she worked with Susan Thornton on the
Southwest Corridor and Bert Melcher on many transportation
projects through DRCOG. Director Anderson stated that she
knows transportation in the Denver Metro Area. She stated
that she has also served on the State Transportation Advisory
Board for CDOT. Director Anderson said that she understands
Chair Kemp left big shoes to fill but he also set an example of
a person who had experience, compassion and knowledge.

Director Anderson hopes to fill at least partially those shoes.
She stated that she looks forward to working with the other
Directors. Director Anderson hopes to have each Board
member be successful in their district and address the issues
they are facing. Director Anderson pledges to have an open
door to help the Directors remedy the issues in their district.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer asked Directors Lasater and Menten to
assist Rolf Asphaug in counting the votes.
Vote on
Motion
Round 1:

Director Anderson received 7 votes, Director Malpiede 4
votes, and Director Folska 4 votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared we did not have an election.

Discussion:

Vote on
Motion
Round 2:

Chair Pro Tem Tayer asked if any of the nominated individuals
would like to withdraw their nominations and none did. He
asked if they would like to offer any additional works on
behalf of their candidacy. Each candidate thanked those who
voted for them but did not have anything else to add.

Director Anderson received 8 votes, Director Malpiede 4
votes, and Director Folska 3 votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared Director Anderson the new Chair
for the RTD Board of Directors.

Chair Pro Tem Tayer entertained a motion for the 1st Vice Chair position.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to nominate Director
Malpiede to the position of 1st Vice Chair of the Board for
2013.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler stated that she has only known Director
Malpiede for a few years but in that time she has been very
impressed with the work Director Malpiede has done

throughout the community. Director Deadwyler believes she is
very well known and liked in the community. Director
Deadwyler thinks that often we focus on FasTracks and the
Business that we forget about the little people. Director
Deadwyler believes that Director Malpiede is about the little
people. Director Malpiede and Deadwyler share that common
goal. She believes it has been a long two years with the DBE
Committee. Director Deadwyler appreciates that Director
Malpiede shares her views in thinking about those that are
forgotten: the disadvantaged, the disabled, and the transit
dependent.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to nominate Director
Folska to the position of 1st Vice Chair of the Board for 2013.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Tobiassen thanked Director Deadwyler for her
comments. He stated that he believes many of the Directors
fight for the little people. Director Tobiassen feels that
Director Folska is one of those little people. Director Folska is
an SBE; she has helped RTD with our SBE process as many of
the documents were not accessible. Director Tobiassen
strongly supports her candidacy.

Motion:

Director James made the motion to nominate Director Bagley
to the position of 1st Vice Chair of the Board for 2013.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director James stated that he has known Director Bagley for
about 30 years and it is his privilege to be able to recommend
his friend as 1st Vice Chair. Director James explained that
Director Bagley’s background has been very helpful for him on
the RTD Board. Director James said that as many of the
Directors know, Director Bagley has been Chair of the Planning
and Development Committee as well as of the GM Oversight
and Performance Management Committee. Director James
believes Director Bagley has done an excellent job. Director
Bagley’s comments are always very insightful. Director James
stated that is attention is on the mission of RTD. It is the job

of RTD to make it so people within the district have enhanced
mobility. Director James thinks that Director Bagley’s
attention is on the mission of RTD.
Director James stated that he is pleased that Chair Anderson
endorsed Director Bagley. He thinks it is an important factor
that the Chair and 1st Vice Chair have a good and cooperative
relationship.
Director James shared that Director Bagley has been on the
Planning Board of the City of Littleton. He has a lot of
experience working with the community. Director James
explained that Director Bagley has been working internally
with staff and externally with our stakeholders in ways that
are quite effective.
Director James explained that one of the responsibilities of the
1st Vice Chair is to act as the Chair if necessary. He feels that
Director Bagley has the best qualifications for the Chair
position other than Chair Anderson.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared the nominations closed. He
asked the nominated individuals to address the Board.
Director Malpiede stated that once again she was privileged
and honored to be nominated as the 1st Vice Chair. She
believes that she has some of the best qualifications for this
position. She stated that looking around the table this is the
first time the Board has had this much diversity. Director
Malpiede stated that she has direct experience sitting on the
Executive Committee as she has served as Secretary. She has
had to be on call to handle any task necessary. She explained
that her schedule is one that allows her to drop what she is
doing to come and serve the people. Director Malpiede
believes she brings a fun aspect to the Executive Committee.
She stated that she knows all the businesses and elected
officials. She feels that she brings a strong personality to the
table will be able to serve at the need of the Chair. Director
Malpiede stated that she is a good collaborator and team
player.

Director Bagley thanked Director James for him nomination
and Chair Anderson for her second. He stated that he
appreciates Director James trust in him. Director Bagley said
that he is excited to be on this Board. He believes that this
year there are so many opportunities. Director Bagley
explained that when he was first elected to the Board every
year the Board has been under the gun to go to an election.
He feels this is a special year because we will not be going to
an election. He thinks that the Board now has the ability to do
something very special. Director Bagley said that when he
first decided to run for election he thought about the legacy of
FasTracks and how RTD would get that accomplished.
Director Bagley stated that he knows with the staff and
General Manager we have we will get FasTracks done.
Director Bagley stated that he has lived in Colorado for 52
years. He is committed to the furtherance of RTD as one of
the top transit agencies in this country. Director Bagley stated
he has a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemistry from the
University of Denver and a Master’s Degree in Urban and
Regional Planning and Community Development from the
University of Colorado. Director Bagley has served as the
Planning Director for the City of Aurora. He believes this gives
him the ability to understand the issues surrounding
transportation and dealing with issues on the municipal level.
Director Bagley shared that he has had his own private firm for
20 years doing independent consulting for builders and
developers. He has also worked with condemning authorities
and property owners on condemnation issues.
Director Bagley said that he is especially proud of serving on
the Denver Union Station Project Authority Board and as the
Chair of the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee. The General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee is responsible for
extending Phil Washington’s contract. Director Bagley stated
that he also has a lot of management experience.
Director Folska stated that she has been involved with RTD
her entire life. She moved to Denver in the year 2000
because of RTD. She expressed that RTD is very important to

her and is a passion for her. Director Folska said that it was
because of RTD that she was able to complete her dual
doctorate in Architecture and Design at the University of
Colorado. Director Folska commuted from I-25 and Hampden
to Boulder every day. She stated that she has a great deal of
first-hand experience, both of the people who are the public
transportation riders and the drivers.
Director Folska explained that her first contact with RTD was
to the Board of Directors when she saw a press release
regarding quiet crossings on the West corridor. She said that
she wrote a letter to the entire Board and the only Director
that responded was Director Tobiassen. Director Folska stated
that she is a published author on pedestrian oriented
development. She feels that as a user of public transportation
and as a visionary and someone who creates ideas she would
be a great supporter of our new Chair.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer asked Director Daly and Deadwyler to
assist Rolf Asphaug in counting the votes.
Vote on
Motion
Round 1:

Director Bagley received 6 votes, Director Malpiede 5 votes,
and Director Folska 4 votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared we did not have an election.

Discussion:

Vote on

Chair Pro Tem Tayer asked if any of the nominated individuals
would like to withdraw their nominations and none did. He
asked if they would like to offer any additional works on
behalf of their candidacy. Director Bagley expressed that he
understands this is a very serious position. He looks forward
to helping the Chair complete her term. Director Malpiede also
pledged her support to the Chair to make her successful.
Director Malpiede stated that she is a very avid transit rider.
She believes that is a very important quality for the 1st Vice
Chair. She loves that she can get anywhere in the
metropolitan area through RTD transportation.

Motion
Round 2:

Director Bagley received 7 votes, Director Malpiede 5 votes,
and Director Folska 3 votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared we did not have an election.

Vote on
Motion
Round 3:

Director Bagley received 10 votes, Director Malpiede 5 votes,
and Director Folska 0 votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared Director Bagley the new 1st Vice
Chair.

Chair Pro Tem Tayer entertained a motion for the 2nd Vice Chair position.
Motion:

Director James made the motion to nominate Director Hoy to
the position of 2nd Vice Chair of the Board for 2013.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director James stated that he knows Director Hoy almost as
well as he knows Director Bagley. Director James explained
that he is going to focus on the comments that Director Hoy
makes at the meetings. He believes that Director Hoy’s
comments show insight that he derives from being a business
owner. Director Hoy owned and operated his own company
and when you own your own company you are responsible for
everything. Director James feels that when Director Hoy asks
questions or makes suggestions they are focused on RTD’s
mission. Director James believes that Director Hoy is a good
citizen. When Director Hoy decided to run for election he was
a member of the Rotary Club which shows his strong sense of
service. Director James stated that Director Hoy is very well
qualified for the position of 2nd Vice Chair.

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to nominate Director
Malpiede to the position of 2nd Vice Chair of the Board for
2013.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler stated that she thinks it is very important
to have Director Malpiede on the Executive Committee. She
believes that we need to have diversity on the Committee.
Director Deadwyler explained that she does not mean diversity
of color but diversity of thought. Director Deadwyler does not
want the Committee to be a group think tank. She feels that
Director Malpiede has shown that she can provide the
diversity of thought. Director Deadwyler believes that Director
Malpiede makes sure the voices of our transit dependent,
disabled, and disadvantaged are heard.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared the nominations closed. He
asked the nominated individuals to address the Board.
Director Hoy thanked Director James for his nomination. He
stated that for the Board members who are new they can be
assured that he will work hard for the Board. Director Hoy
said that for those that have been on the Board previously
they know how hard he works in his position. Director Hoy
stated that he does have an extensive business background
and he has grown from his experience. Director Hoy said he
has been ingrained in his community for 30 years. Director
Hoy reminded staff that we are not just a train company but
we run busses too.
Director Malpiede stated that she believes she will bring a
different perspective to the Committee which is invaluable.

Vote on
Motion:

Director Hoy received 9 votes and Director Malpiede 6 votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared Director Hoy the new 2nd Vice
Chair.

Chair Pro Tem Tayer entertained a motion for the Secretary position.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to nominate Director
Deadwyler to the position of Secretary for 2013.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Malpiede stated that Director Deadwyler has served
as the Vice Chair of the DBE Committee and is very committed
to serving the needs of the community. She believes that
Director Deadwyler will be a great asset to the Executive
Committee. Director Malpiede feels the Committee needs
diversity and Director Deadwyler will be able to provide this.

Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to nominate Director Daly to
the position of Secretary for 2013.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Hoy believes that Director Daly has proven to be an
asset over the years to the Board. Director Hoy explained that
Director Daly provides a thread to our background. He said
that Director Daly has served as Secretary to the Board in the
past.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared the nominations closed. He
asked the nominated individuals to address the Board.
Director Deadwyler thanked Director Malpiede for her
nomination and Director Walker for his second. She noted
that she does not come to this position with a lot of book
knowledge but what she brings is wisdom. She has gained
wisdom throughout her life and it has carried her very far.
Director Deadwyler is the Secretary to the A. Philip Randolph
Institute as well as the Vice Chair for the Colorado Black
Caucus. Director Deadwyler feels that she brings experience
to this position. She is passionate about making sure there is
a balance between the business and people. Director
Deadwyler believes that we cannot focus everything on the
business and building FasTracks. She thinks we need to keep
our transit dependent and disabled patrons in our focus so
they do not have any setbacks. Director Deadwyler stated
that she would bring some diversity and good debate to the
Executive Committee.
Director Daly noted that this is his 6th year on the Board. He
stated that he served as Secretary once before but stepped

aside to help Chair Kemp recruit some of his Executive
Committee. Director Daly feels that he is a team player. He
has a background in operations and is very interested in the
political process. Director Daly said that he has been Chair of
the Government Relations Committee and Vice Chair of the
Operations and Customer Service Committee. He pointed out
that he does have some availability as he is retired. Director
Daly said that he understands there is a lot of signing involved
but he is willing to come down the mountain.
Vote on
Motion:

Director Daly received 8 votes and Director Deadwyler 7
votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared Director Daly the new Secretary.

Chair Pro Tem Tayer entertained a motion for the Treasurer position.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to nominate Director Walker to
the position of Treasurer for 2013.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Hoy stated that he has always appreciated Director
Walker’s insight and slant on things. He believes that Director
Walker has a way of bringing a perspective that the other
Directors may not have seen. He feels when Director Walker
speaks people listen. Director Hoy also feels that Director
Walker has an extensive background which will be helpful.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared the nominations closed. He
asked the nominated individuals to address the Board.
Director Walker stated that he was humbled, honored, and
slightly embarrassed by his nomination. He is very excited
about having been chosen. Director Walker said that the
Board members should have some comfort that he is not brand
new to numbers. He was the Planning Director for Norton,
Ohio and it was his responsibility to balance his departments’
budget. Director Walker shared that he put together CDOT’s
transportation plan and had billions of dollars to work with.
Director Walker stated that he was also the Secretary for the

Denver Architectural Foundation so he has Executive
Committee Experience. Director Walker said that he was
willing to serve in any capacity that the Board would have him
serve.
Vote on
Motion:

Per Board Bylaws, seeing there was only one candidate, the
vote was done by voice. Director Walker received 15 votes.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared Director Walker the new
Treasurer.

VI.

Action Items
Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization
Agreement (the “Agreement”).
Motion:

Director James made the motion
to approval the Bank Account
Signature Authorization
agreement.
Director Lasater seconded the
motion.

Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
RESULT:
ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Bill James, Director, District A
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Walker, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Rivera-Malpiede,
Tayer, Tobiassen, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Solano

Selection of Location for Posting of Board Notice
The RTD Board of Directors designates the entry way of the RTD administrative
office at 1600 Blake Street as its official location for posting of notices of all public
meetings in 2013 as required by C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(c). In addition, to the
maximum extent feasible, notices of public meetings will be posted on RTD’s
website.

Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to
approval the Location for Board
Notice.
Director James seconded the
motion.

Chair Pro Tem Tayer declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Bill James, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Walker, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Rivera-Malpiede,
Tayer, Tobiassen, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Solano

VII.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

VIII.

Adjourn to Government Relations Committee Meeting
Chair Pro Tem Tayer adjourned the meeting at 7:27 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

