1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, October 7, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:59 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:59 PM
6:00 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:00 PM
5:59 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:57 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

5:58 PM
5:57 PM
5:58 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Absent

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District C

Present
Present

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:01 PM
5:58 PM
5:58 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:59 PM
5:58 PM

Director Menten arrived late. Director Lubow and Chair Sisk were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Mike Barnes, Lacy Bell, Rachel Carson, Rick
Clarke, Wayne Cochran, Kevin Diviness, Phil Eberl, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck, Marcia Fraley, David Genova,
Terry Howerter, Genevieve Hutchinson, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins,
Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug
McLeod, Jeff Miessel, Vivian Morales, Andy Mutz, Scott Reed, Gary
Schear, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Stan
Szabelak, Yong Song, Brian Thye, Pauletta Tonilas, Li-Wei Tung, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna, Vishwakarma,
Michael Washington, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Karen Young

Others Present:

Tim Baldwin, Dan Cohen, Michael Dunlap, Kimaron Hallford, Eugene
Howard, Joni Goheen, Doug Gragg, Pedro Ramos, Josh Russell,
Cindy Stovall, Joe Triplett, Chris Waggett

B. Recommended Actions

• Utility Easement for South Weld Metropolitan District for City of Dacono
and St. Vrain Sanitation District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive utility easement
over 3,769 square feet (0.086 acres, more or less) on the Boulder Branch
segment of the Boulder Industrial Lead in the SE¼ Section 14, Township 1
North, Range 68 West, City of Dacono, County of Weld, State of Colorado.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the October
28, 2014 Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Property, explained that the
City of Dacono and the St. Vrain Sanitation District are
concerned with License Agreements that are revocable and
terminable. They initially sought a permanent easement in the
property to ensure the continued use and operation of the
pipelines. Due to time constraints of the subdivision
development, they agreed to execute the licenses to facilitate
the installations while continuing to pursue an easement.

Under the easement, RTD shall retain all rights and usage of
the property as necessary to ensure RTD’s use for any future
mass transportation system purposes.
Committee Chair James asked what would happen to the
utility lines if RTD decided to use the corridor. Susan Altes
replied that the lines are low enough to comply with RTD’s rail
system requirements. Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager
of Capital Programs, added that the utilities lines are subject to
modification or relocation to avoid conflict.
Director Folska asked if the request was a lease or a sale.
Susan Altes replied that it was a grant of property rights
through an easement. Director Folska asked if the $3,100
compensation was in perpetuity. Susan Altes said that it was
a one-time compensation because it is based on the real
property conveyance fee statement of value. Director Folska
asked if the easement went through a Request for Proposal
(RFP) or if it was an exclusive negotiation. Susan Altes
explained that it was an exclusive negotiation with the entity
that requested it.
Director Solano asked for the location of the City of Dacono
and the St. Vrain Sanitation District. He also asked if RTD
anticipated rail service in the area. Susan Altes said that it is
on the east side of I-25. Rick Clarke added that the purchase
agreement with Union Pacific did not allow for partial
purchases. RTD then bought the 32.7 mile corridor. The rest
of the corridor is being preserved for any future additions.
Director Solano asked if RTD could do licenses or any other
taxes in anticipation of rail lines. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
noted that there are hundreds of utility crossings throughout
the corridor. These crossings will not interfere with RTD
operations. She added that accepting the easement request
would allow the subdivision to provide water service.
Director Hoy asked if Joe Knopinski, Managing Principal at
Development Planning and Financial Group, was involved in
this process. Director Hoy also asked if Joe Knopinski was
committed to restoring the tracks. Susan Altes answered that
he was involved and committed.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Judy Lubow, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Updates

• Strategic Plan Update
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, introduced Brian
Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services. Brian Welch
reviewed the RTD 2015 Strategic Plan Power Point included in the Planning
& Development Committee Meeting packet for October 7, 2014. The
presentation included context, structure, alternative names, alternative
vision statements and schedule for the Strategic Plan. He mentioned that
the ideas in the presentation were suggestions for the Board’s consideration.
Phil Washington, General Manager, noted the importance of this document
for the staff. He said that many people do not understand the distinction
between RTD and Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), a partner
in a couple of the projects. Phil Washington pointed out that this document
is visionary as it takes into consideration the 2016 openings and the
momentum the openings will generate in the region and the state of
Colorado. The Strategic Plan will guide the region and perhaps the State in
how to dream big.
Committee Chair James asked to confirm if the Strategic Plan would cover 6
years. Brian Welch confirmed that it is a 6 year Plan which references
actions for the next 20 years. Committee Chair James inquired about the
process for annual review and Board input. Brian Welch anticipates that the
Board will have an opportunity to review and provide feedback on the Plan
during the annual Board Advance. Phil Washington referred the Directors to
the third slide of the presentation. This slide explains the process to create
the Strategic Plan.
Director Folska agreed that what RTD is doing leading up to the 2016
openings will build momentum as well as create synergy for the region and
the state. She also mentioned that a 6 year Plan that bleeds into the next
20 years oversteps staff’s boundaries unless this refers to parameters on the
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). She mentioned that it is the Board’s duty as
representative of the constituents to do the dreaming and planning. Director
Folska recommended that staff research the academic discipline of

“Futurism”. Phil Washington noted that the SBP is part of the strategic
nature of the Strategic Plan. He stated that Board direction is the starting
point of the Strategic Plan as it sets the priorities. The SBP ties back to the
goals set by the Directors during the Board Advance.
Director Bagley noted that people have asked him when RTD will move to
other projects beyond FasTracks. He noted that the third bullet point,
“Transforming Regional Mobility and Quality of Life Through Innovation and
Collaboration”, on the Alternative Strategic Plan Vision Statements
addressed this issue. He said that he is excited to participate in this process
and encouraged staff to move forward.
Director Tobiassen encouraged staff to collaborate and reach out to
who/what RTD thinks will become major activity and employment centers.
He mentioned the Anschutz campus as an example of working to effectively
serve what eventually became an active center. Director Tobiassen said that
he does not have the answers. He noted that reaching out to these parties
would help create a more comprehensive Strategic Plan for RTD.
Director Walker said that it is a great idea to extend the short term vision to
a longer term. He recalled helping CDOT put their plan together in 2000 in
collaboration with other local agencies. He mentioned he is excited to see
the outcome of this process.
Director Anderson agreed with Director Tobiassen. She said that since RTD
does not do land use planning the agency needs to keep working with all of
the partners as it has done for the past 20 years. She believes the outline is
a great way to move forward. She mentioned that the Plan gives direction
on how to complete it.
Director Rivera-Malpiede shared her excitement about the Plan. She likes
the ability for the Board to touch the plan and make adjustments each year.
She said that the region is building in such a magnitude that the Board needs
to broaden the macro perspective.
Director Hoy added that if the District does not plan for 20 years from now
it will go backwards. He said that the current plans were created 20 years
ago.
Committee Chair James agreed with Director Bagley in regard to the third
bullet of the Alternative Strategic Plan Vision Statements slide. He believes
that the Strategic Plan is a great idea. He said that the Plan is something
that RTD has been doing unconsciously. Committee Chair James supports
doing this kind of planning consciously. He added that coordinating with the
SBP is inevitable since it depicts how the Plan will be funded. He said he

looks forward to the Board’s opportunity to be part of the process. He
thanked staff for making the Plan happen. Phil Washington added that staff
sees the Strategic Plan as a collaborative effort between Board and staff.
He said that the top block of the format is Board input. He mentioned that
the Plan will include a large amount of Asset Management and State of
Good Repair. He said this is needed so RTD does not end up like some
agencies that did not take care of their assets.
Director Solano said that a Strategic Plan, as growing documents, are great
for any organizations. He added that the Board of Directors needs to remain
the horse that pulls the cart.

• TOC Update
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, introduced Bill Sirois,
Senior Manager for Transit Oriented Communities. Bill Sirois reviewed the
Moving Forward with Transit Oriented Communities presentation found in
the Planning and Development Committee Meeting Packet for October 7,
2014. The presentation included a brief history of Transit Oriented
Development (TOD) at RTD, the 2010 process, the change from TOD to
Transit Oriented Communities (TOC), and next steps for the TOC Division.
Committee Chair James believes the TOC terminology is great. He also
suggested Pedestrian Oriented Community as a terminology to use. The
latter term explains what the TOC staff is doing in expanding RTD’s role in
these types of projects. Committee Chair James pointed out that the City
and County of Denver (Denver) is becoming pro-active regarding the first
and last mile. He asked staff their perception of the other 30 odd
jurisdictions within the District regarding this topic. Bill Sirois replied that
the emphasis has grown in the last few years. He said that most
jurisdictions seem to be embracing this factor.
Committee Chair James emphasized that there are numerous dimensions
besides transportation and housing to make a community whole. Much of it
is beyond the scope of RTD. He said that RTD has the programs in place to
aid with the job creation aspect.
Director Bagley noted that six years ago, when he started on the Board
alongside Committee Chair James in 2008, TODs were a major concern. He
said that he is thrilled to see the development of the TOD concept. This
development demonstrates the direction of the General Manager and staff’s
ability to work with partners, collaborate, participate, and communicate with
other private and public entities. He mentioned he is very impressed with
what RTD has done in the past six years. He thanked staff for their
outstanding job.

Director Rivera-Malpiede congratulated staff on their amazing work. She
recalled that in 2010, when the Board voted on TOD policy, RTD was
restricted to the transportation piece. Moving towards TOC, she said,
represents the respect from, and collaboration with, stakeholders while
opening up the possibilities for the future. She mentioned this process would
move the agency to the next level locally and nationally. She said that as
the Director of Northeast Transportation Connections, the first and last mile
is an exciting step. She asked staff to include the Director for each TOC in
the process. She also asked that the signs/communication in her District be
bilingual. She encouraged staff to address gentrification by including
affordable housing in the RFP.
Director Deadwyler says that it seems like RTD continues to leave out the
low income constituents without really addressing the issue. She said that
RTD needs to try to provide for them; low income and affordable housing
are two different things.
Director Tobiassen noted the degree of difficulty involved in creating a TOD.
He cautioned against RTD patting itself on the back. He noted that the
developer is a key partner in the process as they are the ones who put their
necks on the line through a proposal. He mentioned that some TODs, like
Denver Union Station (DUS), have great support and taxpayers input. He
also said that other developments do not have any other investments
beyond a light rail station. Director Tobiassen said that RTD needs to make
the TOD process predictable in order to set up the developers for success.
He pointed to the Alameda Station project as an example of working
together to achieve success.
Director Anderson noted that from her experience with the City of Arvada
she is very conscious of who does the land use planning and who sets out
the parameters on how developments take place. She thinks the biggest
thing RTD needs to do is collaboration. She recalled that it took a long time
to turn her neighborhood, which used to be a dumping ground, into the
diverse community it is today. She encouraged staff to remember that not
one size fits all when it comes to TOC. She also reminded staff to work
with the community to get projects accomplished.
Director Solano mentioned that his area is still a dumping ground that many
developers do not want to touch. He said there is an area off I-70 and
Colorado Boulevard that is still not annexed to Adams County. He is
concerned that the transportation will be built but the development will not
follow. He said that each area and challenge is unique.
Director Lasater said that he had the privilege of being a presenter during an
Urban Land Institute event. He introduced the TOC concept during his

presentation. He mentioned that the evolution to a community concept was
well received. He noted that the discussion included participation of 5
developers who had worked on 5 stops along the Southeast corridor.
Director Lasater mentioned that the DTC is nearly 50 years old and needs to
be redeveloped. He said the area needs that first and final mile connectivity.
He reiterated that collaboration is crucial and critical as there needs to be
sensitivity towards all the elements of the process. Bill Sirois mentioned
that for the past six years staff has had conversations with the Jones
University Development at Dry Creek regarding connectivity. Director
Lasater thanked staff for their work.
Director Folska said she was very impressed with staff’s work in particular
the last two years. She asked about details regarding the bridge at the Dry
Creek light rail station. She asked for cost of the bridge and the amount of
parking spaces at the stop. Bill Sirois confirmed with Rick Clarke that the
cost of the bridge was about 4 million dollars. Rick Clarke mentioned that
RTD funded the basic bridge while the developer funded the two extensions.
Phil Washington said that there are about 300 to 400 parking spaces at that
station. He said he will get the exact figure to the Directors. Director
Folska mentioned that some people don’t like to use the bridge as it may
induce vertigo. Bill Sirois noted he had not heard about the possibility of
vertigo for users of the bridge. Director Folska said that even though the
development is so big it still struggles in the walkability and connectivity
aspects. She said she hopes the Alameda project achieves better.
Phil Washington, General Manager, noted that nobody mentioned the WIN
program when referring to the community aspect. RTD’s mindset is to help
people build their own communities. He said this mindset fits into the TOC
concept.
Phil Washington acknowledged the uniqueness of each TOD/C. He said that
collaboration is a given. DUS, for example, had 11 financing tools. He said
that RTD is preparing to do another assessment of TOC functions. He noted
that there needs to be a conversation regarding value capture versus
livability and walkability. This needs to be done on a case by case basis as
proposals are received. Phil Washington said that RTD is avoiding mistakes
made by other agencies when collaborating with developers. He noted RTD
is being diligent in requesting proposals at the right time and making the
right recommendations with regards to disposition of property.
Director Folska agreed with the value capture concept. She said that RTD
must find the nexus/sweet spot where they intersect.

Committee Chair James recaptured the conversation by asking which is
more valuable: money or feeling good.

• Alameda Bus Barn Property Disposition Plan
Kate Iverson, Manager of TOD, reviewed the Bus Barn Property Update
presentation included in the Planning and Development Committee Meeting
packet for October 7, 2014. She said that RTD received an unsolicited
proposal from D4 Urban, the developer working on the Alameda station
project. During the presentation she provided a brief historical background
of the property, including the different reiterations of the 2004 RFP. She
also presented the proposed RFP review criteria.
Phil Washington, General Manager, added that staff would like to work on
an accelerated timeline for this RFP, making it available in 30 days. The
deadline for proposals would be 45-60 days from when made available.
RTD would like to bring several stakeholders, including Denver, to review the
proposals. He noted that one of the requisites for the RFP is connectivity
from the site to the Alameda station.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, added that the RFP is needed to keep the
agency safe while providing fairness to the developer community. She said
that RTD has developed trust and a great reputation with the business
community. RTD’s process allows for all developers to have the same
access to the available information.
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, mentioned that
throughout many competitive processes RTD has found unexpected results.
The Arvada station and DUS are examples of what the RFP process can
achieve. He said that D4 Urban’s proposal is great. He added that the fair
and prudent next step is to open up the process.
Committee Chair James asked Kate Iverson to describe the proposed land
use by D4 Urban as well as to name their partners. Kate Iverson said that
D4 Urban proposed a commercial used car dealership. Their partnership is
with Schomp, a MINI cooper dealership. The proposal includes an affordable
housing component with 150 units and office specifications for a second
stage. Committee Chair James asked for clarification on the time frame.
Phil Washington said that the RFP would be released in 30 days. The
proposers would have 60 days to reply.
Director Menten asked for clarification on the third kind of use on the D4
Urban proposal. She also asked for the zoning on the property and if dollar
amounts were included in the proposal. Kate Iverson clarified the third type
of use is office/industrial use. She said the property is zoned for suburban
mixed used, which provides the greatest flexibility under Denver zoning

code: from big box retailer to high density housing up to 12 stories. She
added that looking at the comps the best use for income is auto oriented.
Marla Lien said that the amounts included in the proposal at this point are
confidential. After the RFP process, all the amounts will become public.
Director Menten clarified that she just wanted to know if there were
amounts included in the proposal.
Director Menten asked if the Honorable Michael Hancock, Denver Mayor,
had signed the proposed inclusionary housing bill. Kate Iverson replied in the
affirmative. Director Menten followed up by asking the date it would become
effective. Phil Washington said that he was not sure but reminded the
Directors that Denver is one of the partners that will be asked for
participation and feedback.
Director Menten said that she would like to see the property as a job
creation parcel. She added that she would prefer the property to not be tied
to subsidies.
Director Bagley agreed with the comments made by Marla Lien and Phil
Washington about proprietary activity and transparency. He said that an
RFP process protects the agency. He added that if D4 Urban wins the
proposal then this project will be added to their partnership with RTD.
Director Bagley referred to other proposals for the Eagle P3 Project and how
financial amounts were not disclosed before the proposals were received.
He added that local governments are the ones who decide land use. He
ended his remarks by reiterating the importance of how RTD acts in the
public arena.
Director Deadwyler noted that she had heard rumors regarding this proposal.
Some people advocated for exclusive negotiations with D4 Urban. She does
not agree with this position but asked why staff had not made an exclusive
negotiation with D4 Urban since these type of negotiations have been done
in the past. Phil Washington answered that each proposal is different. RTD
happens to know there are other parties interested in developing the
property. He said that an exclusive negotiation would not make sense for
this property. Kate Iverson explained that there were previous exclusive
negotiations with D4 Urban for the Alameda Station project as they
controlled the private streets adjacent to the station. Director Deadwyler
thanked staff for the explanation. She added that for this and most projects
RFPs are a great idea. She said that she would hate to think RTD would do
exclusive negotiations on all properties. She also added that she can see
why exclusive negotiations would make sense for some projects.
Director Folska asked for the appraised value of the Bus Barn property. Bill
Sirois said that in 2004 the property was appraised at $3 million. Phil

Washington added that the appraisal will be updated as part of the RFP
process.
Director Folska asked if D4 Urban has employed WIN participants on the
Alameda project. Phil Washington said that they have employed WIN
participants. He said he was not sure of the percentage. Phil Washington
also added that RTD would expect the winner of the Bus Barn RFP to
participate in the WIN program. Director Folska asked how many WIN
participants were employed on the DUS project and the other TODs. Phil
Washington said that he did not have the figures for DUS. He mentioned
that the WIN program did not exist when some of the TODs were
constructed, for example, Dry Creek.
Director Folska asked for clarification on the exclusive negotiation term and
process. She asked if, for example, 50 people respond to the RFP, then
RTD would enter into an exclusive negotiation with the winner. Kate
Iverson said that an exclusive negotiation involves RTD not putting a
property for sale so the developer that has made the proposal can move
forward knowing that their investment is in good faith. The RFP process
includes contractual negotiations. These are two distinct processes. Marla
Lien added that RTD negotiates with the winner of the RFP. If a contract
cannot be consummated, RTD would go out for proposals again. Director
Folska asked how many times RTD has gone into exclusive negotiations.
She asked specifically about the Big Mike Dealership in Aurora. Susan Altes
replied that the property Director Folska was inquiring about was part of the
real property pilot disposition program. The program suggested ways to sell
four different pieced of property. For the involving the Big Mike Dealership,
the Board recommended consulting the adjacent owners so the property did
not go through an RFP process.
Director Lasater said that he, like Director Anderson, has experience working
with municipal government development. He said that several projects have
resembled phasings or take outs. He noted that it sounded like something
similar happened in 2004 on the east and west rail lines. Kate Iverson
clarified that the RFP mentioned in the presentation for 2004 only included
the Bus Barn property. The RFP did undergo different reiterations.
Director Lasater added that there were many factors to be taken into
consideration. He said that phasing/take down of land ownership opens up
the possibility for a developer to have to come back at a later date for more
property.
Director Lasater pointed out that many properties have natural elements that
make the land not suited for development. He said that the Bus Barn has a
man-made element, the rail.

Director Lasater noted that short and long term income opportunities should
be taken into consideration when looking into an RFP versus a stage 2 of a
project. The presentation indicated that the consultant said that it would be
a one-time money use with no residual income. Director Lasater believes
that RTD should be moving the opposite way: creating connectivity to the
development in order to increase ridership. This would follow the ULI model
of live, work, play, and shop in the community. He noted that the
walkability of the area is scary.
Director Lasater addressed the affordable housing issue brought up by
Director Deadwyler. He said that the average household income in Denver is
$59 thousand, making it about $3500/$3600 a month. It is not low end but
about double the minimum wage. Affordable housing requires occupants to
make no more than 60% of the average household income amount. He
mentioned he liked the idea of mixed housing in a project, but in order to
make housing affordable you need to keep land affordable. He said that
another way for the Board to look at the matter is to make it a balanced
community on the RFP process. He said all these points are important to
take into consideration when moving forward with the project as a whole
instead of fragments.
Marla Lien assured the Board that staff, alongside economic consultants, will
reduce any financial proposals to net present value (NPV) in order to give the
board an apples-to-apples comparison.
Director Tobiassen said that he liked what Director Lasater said. He also
agreed with Director Bagley in that RTD does not do land use planning. This
is the responsibility of our partners, in this case, Denver. Director Tobiassen
mentioned his phone conversation with Denver Councilmember Chris Nevitt.
Councilmember Nevitt said that Denver has an interest in affordable housing
when it is close to transit due to the gentrification Denver has seen in recent
years. RTD can influence the creation of affordable housing near stations,
but it is not a requirement from the agency. The partners, in this case
Denver, may request us to make affordable housing a high scoring factor. He
said that RTD needs to get Denver’s input on this project to make sure the
RFP are scored according to their interests. Phil Washington agreed with
Director Tobiassen regarding compatibility with Denver. He added that staff
is asking for a head nod from the Board on their recommendation to take the
unsolicited proposal to competition through an RFP process. Director
Tobiassen said that if this matter was up for a vote, he would recommend
RTD be in communication with Denver. Phil Washington said that staff has
done so.

Director Hoy said that an unsolicited proposal had to go through the
unsolicited proposal policy. Phil Washington clarified that real estate does
not fall under the unsolicited proposal policy.
Director Hoy added that connectivity to the Alameda station should be
scored high for this project. By not asking specifically for a bridge, the RFP
would leave it open to developers’ creativity.
Director Walker mentioned he is in favor of going forward with the RFP
process. He added that developers know what kind of projects they are
getting into when submitting proposals. He said that a key factor for this
RFP is working with Denver, recognizing the importance of this parcel.
Director Walker said that during Rail-Volution one of the messages was that
highways destroyed neighborhoods and transit is putting them back
together. He noted the importance for the agency to get the best proposal.
Director Anderson told staff that she gives them her head nod to move
forward with the RFP process.
Director Rivera-Malpiede agreed to move forward with the RFP process. She
added that D4 Urban’s proposal is intriguing. She believes it is RTD’s due
diligence to move towards the RFP process. She considers the connectivity
portion important because the community needs it.
Director Daly stressed that a bridge is essential in the area as the Santa
Fe/Alameda neighborhood is not walkable.
Committee Chair James said that he has had the same conversations with
Councilmember Nevitt, who expressed his preference for a bridge and
affordable housing in the development. Committee Chair James recognized
the need to balance the revenue and affordable housing aspects. He said he
respects the idea of the RFP process as this is a different situation from
across the tracks.

D. Other Matters
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, informed the Board that
RTD has been awarded $5 million from the Federal Transit Agency’s (FTA) Ladders
of Opportunity program. The application was made in partnership with CDOT.
Denver and the City of Aurora supported the application. The grant is for near term
transit priority project improvements on Colfax between Broadway and Potomac.
He clarified that the grant is not part of Denver’s Colfax Corridor Connections
project. The grant will improve bus operations and station amenities along Colfax.
It will be complementary to Denver’s longer term improvements. Bill Van Meter
said that staff will provide a more comprehensive update at a future meeting.

Committee Chair James thanked staff for submitting the application. He said both
he and Director Deadwyler are happy to see this project happening.
Director Bagley reminded the Directors of the General Manager’s Performance
Survey sent over email. He said the survey is due on October 20th. The General
Manager’s Oversight and Performance Committee will meet on October 28th to
review the results.
Director Bagley added that staff does a tremendous job and works very hard. He
said that it is critical the Board and staff are a team collaborating together to
achieve more.
Director Walker acknowledged the effectiveness of the bus stops improvements
along Broadway. He said the bus ride is becoming longer due to increased
ridership. He mentioned that walkability within the Denver City limits along
Broadway has improved. He invited staff to consult with him if they need advice
on other matters that are working almost right since he rides the bus every day.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 11, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned to the Government Relations Committee at 8:22
p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

