Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 3, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue

Date:

July 3, 2012

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on July 3, 2012
****

Board Members
Present:
Committee Chair Cohen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Williams and Walker

Director Tobiassen arrived late.
Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:
Bruce Abel, Skip Brown, Frank Buczkowski, Jessie Carter, Rick
Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin
Jenkins , Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, Pauletta
Tonilas, Phil Washington, Brian Welch
Others Present:
Rod Brown, Mac Callison-City of Aurora, Matt Christianson-Kiewit,
Leonard Dinegar, Jane Donovan, Greg Fischer, Sherman Hamilton,
Ken Hampshire, Seth Hoffman, Tom Howell-Kiewit, Erika KampeTransportation Solutions, David Lewis-CAC, Tim Madden, Peter
Mueller-PRT Consulting, Jim Poggemeyer-Kraemer, Jeanne Shreve,
Julie Skeen, Danielle Smith, Karen Stewart, Hunter Sydnor-Kiewit,
Jacob Riger - DRCOG, Susanne Wilson-Zann&Associates,
****
Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 3, 2012
Page 2
I.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
Committee Chair Cohen stated he would entertain a motion to move into executive
session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S.24-6-402(4) (e) contract negotiations-I225.
Motion:
Director Malpiede made the motion
to move into executive session to
discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e)
contract negotiations-I-225.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.
The motion PASSED,
Committee Chair Cohen indicated the Board would adjourn from the Executive
session back to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee. The Board adjourned into
executive session at 5:35 p.m.

II.

Resume from Executive Session
The meeting resumed from Executive Session at 8:05 p.m.

III.

Update on Evaluation of I-225 Unsolicited Proposal
General Manager Washington introduced this presentation on the I-225 Unsolicited
Proposal. He spoke to the guiding principles and mantra that undergirds all the
decisions related to FasTracks. He referenced the Transformation Industry forum
held about a year ago in which RTD encouraged unsolicited proposals and
subsequently this I-225 proposal.
Rick Clarke and Terry Howerter co-teamed on the presentation. Rick Clarke provided
the technical evaluation and Terry Howerter provided the financial evaluation. Rick
Clarke reviewed the evaluation process including the teams of technical, financial
and stakeholders. The stakeholders consisting of the City of Aurora and CDOT
indicates that both teams were good and provided good proposals. This proposal
was a best value with 60 points for the financial and 40 points for the proposed
technical solution.
Rick Clarke provided the highlights from both proposers, Kiewit and Balfour BeattyAmes (BBA). A copy of these highlights may be found in the presentation available
in the minute’s notebook in the Board office.
Overall evaluation scores:
Technical score
Financial Score
Total Score

Kiewit
28.14
34.75
62.89

BBA
26.81
33.25
60.06

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 3, 2012
Page 3

Terry Howerter reviewed the financial aspects of this proposal. The financial
evaluation looked at the cost effectiveness and the strength of the financial
structure. Terry stated that earlier in 2011, it did not look like financially, RTD could
take on another project but due to favorable changes in December, 2011 for the
TIFIA loan in addition to some upturn in the economics, this has allowed for us to
now be considering other projects.
General Manager Washington provided the staff recommendation while indicating
that no decision is expected of the Board members on this recommendation tonight.
Staff recommends that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
award the design build contract and negotiate final terms for a financial solution
agreement with Kiewit Infrastructure Company to serve as the Contractor for the I225 Rail Line Project (“Project”). The Project consisting of a portion of I-225 Rail
Line from the Nine Mile Station to Peoria Station which will be constructed for a
lump sum amount of US$350 million, to be financed in accordance with the terms of
the final agreement.
The General Manager summarized some of the benefits of this recommendation:


High level of interest from the business community who are seeking innovative
ways to partner with RTD to complete the I-225 corridor



Provides a firm, fixed price commitment to complete a key part of this FasTracks
program at a favorable capital cost



Two solid proposals and successful award of the contract demonstrates the
private sector’s interest in investing in another RTD project and speaks to the
agency’s respect in the industry



Mobility-The completion of the I-225 corridor provides additional mobility to key
job centers for military veterans and transit dependents and has a high measure
of cost effectiveness per rider.



This closes the loop between the southernmost edge to the major destination
(DIA) in the region. It is important to note that this I-225 will serve a number of
regional facilities (i.e. Veteran’s Hospital, Children’s Hospital and Anschutz
Medical Center) that are accessed across the region and state. The complete
extension connects with the East corridor (between Denver Union Station and
DIA) at the Peoria Station and provides regional connectivity to a major portion of
the metro area.

The impacts from this recommended action include:


$305M projects: All projects identified to be completed using the $305M
remaining from the Eagle P3 project will be completed on schedule and the
funding remain intact.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 3, 2012
Page 4


US 36 Managed Lanes: This will provide the $15M as requested by the Colorado
HPTE to complete the managed lane project on US36 table mesa. With this
completion we will complete 2 corridors (I-225 and US 36 managed lanes)



North Metro: RTD would pursue as a top priority, any funding available to move
forward with the design and construction of North Metro from the National
Western Stock Show to 72nd Avenue, allowing for the aggressive pursuit of a
federal grant of up to 50% of the remaining cost to complete the corridor.



Southeast Corridor Extension: RTD would move forward with the first of several
steps required to apply for a federal New Starts grant. The application of this
grant would be a placeholder to allow RTD to enter into the FTA process.

RTD is very aware of the sensitivity of this proposal and the need to talk with our
stakeholders around regional mobility. This is a delicate dance and one which the
staff will be having over the next days with our stakeholders. There is also a lot of
sensitivity around service equity and service reductions that will be addressed.
Chair Kemp emphasized the importance of obtaining public input and meeting with
our stakeholders. The following modification to the proposed schedule will occur:
July 10—Public comments
July 17-Board Meeting with public comments/Special FasTracks Committee meeting
July 24—Special Board meeting with more public comments/Action on Unsolicited I225 proposal.
Committee Chair Cohen recognized the Kiewit team in the audience and
acknowledged David Lewis, Chair of the Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) before
asking for comments from the Board members.
Board Member Comments:
Director Tayer requested that in the interest of clarity, he would like to see a list of
all projects that we have ongoing.
Director Tayer inquired about the Aurora’s Mayor’s offer to go to the ballot on
financing some component of this corridor. He asked if we could get a white paper
on what that offer may entail and how a regional transportation authority (RTA)
similar to what is being proposed by Aurora might work.
Marla Lien indicated this would require more Tabor authority. Director Tayer
requested if this could be spelled out and when cash may become available to flow
back (P4 concept)
Director Williams asked to see the schedule and to be included on the outreach to
the stakeholders.
Director McMullen commented this was smart and responsible management.
Hopefully, this will complete a ring of fire around Denver and offers a big solution
that enhances the region, jobs, increase property tax values and sales tax revenue.
This is innovative thinking and at first blush, he greatly supports what has been

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 3, 2012
Page 5
proposed.
Director Hoy commented that the ring of fire could end up being a fire death for the
north. This project will take so much resource. He noted that in some ways, this
proposal takes the proposal from the City of Aurora out of the game. He questioned
the wisdom of doing this and putting all our resources and focus into one corridor.
Director Anderson commented this is an exciting process. We have always been 1
corridor at a time. It is exciting to see that we can complete another corridor within
our current budget. Making a priority for North Metro to build up to 72nd is exciting
also. However, she will reserve comment until after hearing from the stakeholders.
Director Williams indicated she can understand the attractiveness of it. This allows
us to leverage into the system. However, her concern is for the north area. The
stakeholders have been very aggressive in looking for innovative ways to leverage in
the north area. To be able to apply for federal funds will require a 50% match. We
need to keep an open mind so that we can continue to encourage the north
stakeholders and others to remain innovative.
It is important that our
recommendations keep some funds in the hopper to encourage others.
Director Walker stated he sees this as a win-win. He is looking forward to having a
conversation with his constituents.
Director Malpiede thanked the two proposer teams and staff on the presentation.
These are two complex proposals. She indicated that many of the regional riders
needing access to the Anschutz campus are also some of our most vulnerable. The
connectivity to DIA and other areas along the corridors for the patients and their
families is paramount.
Director Tobiassen stated he believes this project will move forward as a win-win for
all. The Anschutz Campus including the Veteran’s Hospital, and the Children’s
Center serves thousands of people in this region. It is a regional facility. This is not
just an Aurora based solution but a solution that will have full regional benefit.
Director O’Boyle asked for confirmation that the public will have 3 more additional
opportunities for comments. The response was yes-July 10, July 17 and July 24th.
IV.

Other Matters
 Director Cohen Director Cohen expressed the Board’s thoughts and prayers for
the child who was injured in the accident of the SUV that ran into a stopped bus.
 Director Anderson commented that Director Hoy did a great job in hosting the
groundbreaking of the Northwest Rail. Director Hoy responded it was a great
opportunity with a great crowd. Director Walker noted there were representatives
from the City of Denver offering their support as well.

V.
VI.

Next Meeting Date: July 10, 2012
Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 9:00 p.m.

