1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, September 10, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:13 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

5:30 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:31 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Absent

5:31 PM
5:39 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:11 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:05 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:17 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Vice Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:18 PM
5:05 PM

4:59 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:00 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Steve
Gieske, Mike Gil, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Doug
MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Lisa Trujillo, Phil Washington, Dennis Yaklich

Others Present:

Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Lee Johnson, Stu Livensparger,
Cynthia Menge, Susan Monard, Ron Murphy, Laura Rinker, Marta
Sipeki, Larry Tenenholz, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• January 2014 Service Plan
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Planning, reminded the Board that
this is the first time we are going through the service changes under the
new process that was briefed at the August 13, 2013 Operations and
Customer Service Committee Meeting. He thanked the Board for giving
staff this latitude. Bruce Abel explained that this is helping staff talk to our
customer base earlier and therefore, more comprehensively. He pointed out
that as part of this new process, staff is including a section titled ‘Look
Ahead’; this is an opportunity to not only present the proposed January
service changes but to also provide a heads up of what staff anticipates for
May. Bruce Abel explained that staff is always looking ahead several service
changes and wanted to communicate that information to the Board. He said
that the look ahead is very germane right now because in May we are
opening Denver Union Station (DUS); while this may seem minor the
Downtown terminus will be changing for many routes. Bruce Abel stated
that the look ahead is something staff anticipates presenting going forward.
Bruce Abel explained that the new process will be that staff will seek public
comment, refine their recommendations, and come back to the Board in
October for approval of the final service changes.
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, stated that the
January 2014 service changes are relatively small. He noted there were
service reductions on Routes 54 and 89 as well as the discontinuance of
Route YL due to low ridership. Jessie Carter also stated that staff is
proposing to permanently close the 29th and Welton station. He said there
will be an increase of service on the HX, 105, and P and an extension of

Route 66 service on Sundays and holidays. Jessie Carter stated that there
are a number of minor schedule adjustments as well.
Bruce Abel said that he wanted to reinforce one of the comments made by
Jessie Carter. He reiterated that part of the proposal is the recommendation
for the full time closure of the 29th and Welton station. He reminded the
Board that this was closed on a temporary basis to test on-time performance
for the corridor and system as a whole. Bruce Abel explained that staff has
seen the improvements that were modeled be realized with the station
closing which is why staff is recommending the full time closure. He stated
that at this time they are not recommending the removal of the
infrastructure because there are still several studies being conducted about
the mobility options in the corridor; a final decision about infrastructure will
not be made until the studies are completed. Jessie Carter stated that about
34% of all trips used to get delayed while trying to go up Welton; that has
been reduced to 17% with the closing of the station.
Director Daly noted that staff is proposing for the first eastbound Route CS
to operate five minutes earlier and for the Evergreen routes to depart eight
minutes earlier. He asked why there was a cost of $8,200 annually
estimated for the CS change but no cost impact anticipated for the
Evergreen change. He also asked why staff is proposing the change to the
Evergreen routes. Jessie Carter explained that on the CS the driver has to
pull out earlier; this means that the amount of time (5 minutes) would be
multiplies by 255 days per week to come up with the cost. He said that for
the Evergreen line we are able to pull the bus in earlier because it does not
cycle back so there is not extra time added overall. Jessie stated that
changing the Evergreen routes will allow for a better connection at the
Federal Center; many people have requested this change to make
connections to Tech Center routes and the W line.
Director Daly expressed that he is pleased that the Golden Call-n-Ride is
doing so well. He asked if the additional 12 hours of service would require
an additional vehicle. Jessie Carter said that was correct; this will be an
additional on-demand vehicle.
Director Folska asked for clarification between routine service adjustments
versus major service changes. Jessie Carter explained that routine service
adjustments are changes that are made in very small increments of time to
help improve on-time performance. Major service changes would include
things like changing frequency of a route from every 30 minutes to every 15
minutes, eliminating routes, etc.
Director Folska commented that there were several smaller bus routes and
Call-n-Rides that were funded by a 3rd party. She wondered how those
arrangements worked. She also wondered if the Englewood Art Shuttle was

different from the other 3rd party services. Bruce Abel explained that for a
number of Call-n-Rides, RTD worked with municipal partners; these partners
sought Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement (CMAQ) grants
to implement the service. He said at the end of the three year
demonstration period RTD will evaluate the service to see if we will continue
it. He noted that many Call-n-Rides have been started this way. Bruce Abel
stated that the Englewood Art Shuttle was started this way as well. It
performed well so RTD put it into the budget and the City of Englewood
subsidized the Shuttle so it is a free service.
Director Folska noted that staff is proposing the elimination of the flex route
for the Belleview Call-n-Ride yet it was stated that there were no cost
impacts associated with this proposal. She asked how there could not be a
savings when eliminating a route. Jessie Carter explained that on Call-nRide service we sometimes operate a flex route which mimics fixed route
service. He stated that instead of having one vehicle operate a flex route
and one provide on-demand service, both vehicles will now be offering ondemand service.
Director Menten commented that she only sees a cost savings on Route 54.
She asked if there were any other cost savings or only cost increases.
Jessie Carter stated she was correct; all other proposed changes would
result in a cost increase or no financial impact.
Director Menten asked for clarification on the statement for Route 323 that
says: “agreed upon with the City of Longmont in meetings held for Apr 13
service changes”. She noted that these were changed for January 2014
and the next service changes would be May 2014. She wonders where the
April timeframe is coming from. Jessie Carter stated that there were a
number of different on-time performance complaints related to delays from
the rail-road crossing. He said a staff member attended a meeting with the
City of Longmont to discuss the re-route during the April 2013 service
changes.
Director Bagley stated that he is very supportive of the closure of the 29th
and Welton station, especially if it will improve our on-time performance. He
noted the closure has already done that by reducing our delays form 34% to
17%. He asked if the four-car trains go all the way down Welton. Jessie
Carter stated that they do not.
Chair Anderson shared that she has heard from several people who have told
her the change from Market Street Station to DUS is going to add 15
minutes to their travel time. She is wondering where that information is
coming from. Bruce Abel believes that 15 minutes is their estimate. He said
with the terminus of bus lines at DUS instead of Market Street there will be
some additional travel time on either the Mall Shuttle or 18th/19th Circulator.

Bruce Abel noted that most of the employment downtown is at the Civic
Center end; however, as we have started developing DUS this is
transitioning.
Director Lasater said that he has heard repeated complaints about buses on
Route 66. Arapahoe Road is nothing but bumper to bumper in the afternoon
and the buses do not get to stops according to the schedule because the
frequency of service is the same throughout the day. Jessie Carter stated
that at peak times we offer a lot more running time so it takes more
vehicles; however, Arapahoe Road is a special case because traffic on this
road is terrible. He said that we have made schedule adjustments and ontime performance has improved but there is a need for further adjustments.
He said that staff is continuing to monitor this route.
Director Hoy stated that both Route 0 and 105 service adjustments have
anticipated costs of $62,000 annualized. He asked for further information
about these costs because it seemed like more than a routine service
adjustment. Jessie Carter stated that these are both local routes and while
both have an increase of 6 operating hours per weekday; it will put an
additional vehicle on Route 0 and increase the number of trip on Route 105.
Bruce Abel explained that in order to maintain the current schedule an
additional bus was needed for Route 0 while the changes to Route 105 will
allow us to improve service frequencies during the day.
Director Rivera-Malpiede thanked staff for their diligent work on Route 52.
A new senior high rise was built at the corner of 46th and Zuni and staff
worked with Mr. Randall and the community to get this area serviced. She
believes this is a perfect example of RTD working with the community to
meet our constituents’ needs.
Director Solano asked for further information on the decision to combine the
Thornton/Northglenn Call-n-Ride and why there was no anticipated cost
impact. Bruce Abel explained that this was merely a change in operations.
He said that often people would transfer from one Call-n-Ride to the other
and this change will allow them to travel without a transfer. He stated that
there is no cost because instead of having one vehicle serve each route
there will not be two vehicles serving the combined routes. Director Solano
expressed his appreciation for the change.
Director Sisk noted that staff was proposing to push back the last evening
departure for Route AB. He said that there are a number of flights that get
in at 11:45 p.m. and those travelers would not be able to catch the last bus
still. He requested that staff look at moving the last trip back another 10
minutes to accommodate these flight times. Jessie Carter stated that his
team would look at that.

Director Walker believes the changes to Route 0 will really be appreciated
especially with all the development in Littleton and Englewood and upcoming
construction on Broadway.
Director Menten asked how roundabouts affect RTD’s service and buses.
Jessie Carter stated that roundabouts replace the need to add a signal in
that area. He explained that a signal will cost a certain amount of time, the
roundabout is a quicker progression. Jessie Carter noted that design can
also have an impact as some are planned to accommodate large vehicles
while others are not. Overall, Jessie Carter thinks they are an improvement.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked how many spare buses we have in the
fleet. Bruce Abel stated that we have a 20% spare ratio which is in
compliance with FTA guidelines.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked what the increase in travel time from
Civic Center to Market Street Station was with the signal change. Jessie
Carter stated that the trip increased by 3 minutes.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if there was any update on the proposed
changes to Route 209. Jessie Carter explained that we were going to make
a change in August due to the addition of a signal; however, the signal will
not be installed to next year so the change has been postponed.

• 2013 Paratransit Customer Satisfaction Results - Executive Summary
Dennis Yaklich, Manager of Market Research, stated that there was an
Executive Summary of the 2013 Paratransit Customer Satisfaction Survey
included in the September 10, 2013 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Packet. He said earlier in 2013, 50% of the active Paratransit
User Database was invited to take part in a customer satisfaction survey.
He noted that the response was great with 21% of customers invited
completing the survey. Customers could respond by mail in a pre-paid
envelop, online, or over the phone. He noted that each format was also
available in Spanish.
Dennis Yaklich explained that the overall satisfaction ratings were 4.2 for
Access-a-Ride and 4.1 for Access-a-Cab based on a 5 point scale. He said
that both of these ratings are comparable to the most recent fixed route and
light rail customer satisfaction surveys.
Director Folska stated that there seems to be some incongruity with the
results if the overall satisfaction for Access-a-Ride was higher but later on in
the report it was noted that Access-a-Cab was rated more favorably. Dennis
Yaklich explained that participants were asked about their overall
satisfaction with their most recent trip as well as the service in the past six

months; however, they were also asked to evaluate specific areas like seat
comfort, lift satisfaction, how safe they felt, driver’s knowledge of routes,
etc. He said in some of those areas Access-a-Cab was rated higher.
Director Folska asked for a breakdown of people requiring a lift between
Access-a-Ride and Access-a-Cab. Dennis Yaklich stated that 80% of riders
on Access-a-Ride needed a lift or used a mobility device versus 25% on
Access-a-Cab.
Director Folska stated that her understanding is that the Access-a-Cab
drivers do not complete the Paratransit training that is given to RTD’s
drivers/contractors. Bruce Abel said that the taxi drivers go through a
different training but we do not have control over the taxi driver training.
Director Folska shared that the thing that stood out to her is that the
majority of people who are using our Paratransit services are over 65 and
female; however, she believes the results show that this demographic
prefers Access-a-Cab. Dennis Yaklich stated that 56% of those using
Access-a-Ride and 69% of those using Access-a-Cab are 65 or older.
Approximately 67% of Access-a-Ride users are female and that number
climbs to 80% for Access-a-Cab. He said that he has not done an
intersection of age and gender so he cannot say for certain that 65+
females seem to prefer Access-a-Cab.
Director Folska asked if we prefer people to take Access-a-Cab versus
Access-a-Ride for our budget purposes. Bruce Abel stated that it is more
cost effective for people to use Access-a-Cab but that RTD does not have a
preference.
Committee chair Tobiassen asked if the survey data was available online.
Dennis Yaklich said that the reports are not posted but are available upon
request. He noted that we do not give out the raw data but there is a much
longer report. He stated that he would send it to Committee Chair
Tobiassen.
Committee Chair Tobiassen congratulated Larry Buter, Manager of
Paratransit Services, on the great results from the survey. He shared that
when he first became a Board member it was not that way.

• Special Services 2nd Quarter 2013 Report
Bruce Abel introduced Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services. He
stated that the report was included in the September 10, 2013 Operations
and Customer Service Agenda Packet and Brain Matthews could answer any
questions.

Director Bagley asked for a brief narrative of how the Belleview Call-n-Ride is
doing. He was excited to see that it was performing better and hopes that
can continue. Director Bagley believes this service is a great benefit to
Unincorporated Arapahoe County. Brian Matthews stated that the boardings
are much better. He thinks that adjustments made to the service as well as
efforts to educate the public have really been helping the service.
Director Daly noted that in looking at the Parker Call-n-Ride the average is
listed at 2.8 boarding per hour yet all the monthly numbers are much higher.
He asked how the average could be 2.8. Brian Matthews explained that the
average listed was for 2012 so that there was a point of reference.
Director Hoy asked for further information on the Federal Heights Call-nRide. He stated that boardings appear to be going down so he was
wondering if staff was happy with this services performance or if they had
any plans to improve ridership. Brian Matthews stated that he was not
pleased with the performance. He said that he is working with marketing to
do another campaign in the area. Brian Matthews explained that this Call-nRide is grant funded but just has not produced. Bruce Abel noted that it is
not unusual in summer months for ridership to trend downward.
Director Bagley noted that the Longmont Call-n-Ride is the only service that
had a 50% decrease in boardings per weekday in June. Brian Matthews
explained that typically Call-n-Rides have a decrease in June because of the
students. He said there are a lot of students in Longmont that use the
service so that is what is happening in this situation.
Director Solano asked why each special service has different dates
associated with it. Brian Matthews explained that the dates listed are the
dates each service started.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that in the past we have discussed
cutting the Parker Call-n-Ride but now the boardings per hour seem to be
increasing. He asked if we are doing anything to improve ridership. Brian
Matthews stated that we are doing marketing for the service and that the
Town of Parker sponsors free service during the summer.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 2nd Quarter 2013
Bruce Abel introduced Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted
Services. He stated that the report was available in the September 10,
2013 Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet and
Carolyn Conover could answer any questions.
Director Folska asked for additional information about the training the
operators complete with regard to working with passengers with various

kinds of disabilities. Carolyn Conover stated that our contracts require each
operator to go through at least 8 hours of elderly and disabled training in
addition to on-the-road training. She explained that RTD is also embarking
on an ADA refresher training that all contractors and RTD drivers will be
required to complete; in addition to the refresher training, Carolyn Conover
said that her team is working with marketing on a campaign to educate our
passengers. Bruce Abel indicated that there would be a broader discussion
of the ADA refresher training as well as the outcomes at next month’s
Committee meeting.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that the wheelchair securement area
has been a hot button for the last few months. He asked for a brief status
update as to what refresher training had been completed so far. He also
asked if there is any way to measure success of the training. Bruce Abel
stated that the training began this week. He explained that every contract
must have each operator in for a one hour per month safety meeting; the
refresher training will take place during this month’s safety meetings; the
internal training is kicking in this month as well. Bruce Abel anticipates that
all the refresher training should be completed by the end of the month. He
said that staff has been tracking complaints before and after; they have also
identified routes with the highest number of complaints so they plan to
focus on these routes in the beginning.
Director Daly expressed that he is impressed with all of the performance
statistics except on-time performance. He noted that three of the private
contractors were in red. He stated that this is an ongoing issue. Directly
Daly wonders why this is an issue specific to private contractors and not
RTD. Bruce Abel stated that this has been an issue since the January 2012
Service Cuts. He explained that one of the anticipated impacts was
degraded on-time performance as more people are riding on fewer services.
He said that staff has been focusing our resources on individual routes.
Bruce Abel noted that in the first quarter even RTD was in red. He
reiterated that this is something staff is really focusing on and they are
seeing improvements even if the goal has not yet been met.

• Access-a-Ride 2nd Quarter Report
Bruce Abel introduced Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services. He
stated that the report was available in the September 10, 2013 Operations
and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet and that Larry Buter could
answer any questions.
There were no questions regarding the Access-a-Ride 2nd Quarter Report.

• 2nd Quarter 2013 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary

David Genova, Assistant General Manager of Safety, stated that the report
was available in the September 10, 2013 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Agenda Packet. He said that there were no exceptions observed
and that that he and Chief Tarbert could answer any questions.
Director Lasater shared that he has ridden the light rail quite a bit and often
he does not see any enforcement officers; if he does see an officer they are
riding the train but not checking any fares. He wonders if just their presence
wards off those who are trying to ride for free or if they really should be
checking for tickets. Chief Tarbert said that there are a couple reasons that
an office might be on a train but not conducting fare enforcement. He
explained that if a passenger or other officer needs assistance he may be on
the train to get to that person. The other reason would be that the handheld
fare device is not operating at that time. David Genova shared that a
uniform presence is a great deterrent in terms of people not having fare. He
stated that it is the expectation that when an officer is on the train they are
checking fare unless they are involved in some other type of activity.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if a 911 call was initiated when someone
hits the emergency call button. Chief Tarbert stated that 911 is called
immediately and all cameras on the platform are turned to that location; our
command center may also contact the fire department, EMT and our Transit
Officers as needed.
Director Folska asked where the emergency phones are located. She also
asked if it would be possible to put a ping on the phones. Chief Tarbert
stated that every platform has an emergency phone. David Genova stated
that also there is a phone at every elevator entrance and within the elevator
itself. He said that staff has investigated the ping but has not seen anything
in the industry that has this functionality right now.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce Abel introduced Judy McMurphy, Project Manager. Judy McMurphy
highlighted that her team has trained 82 people on the new handheld Smart
Card media readers, 95% of whom were fare inspectors. She stated that
now we are able to start gathering metrics on the cards. Judy McMurphy
shared that over the past week there has been a huge increase in the
number of cards that are being scanned by the fare inspectors.
Judy McMurphy reminded the Board that there were a number of items from
Phase I that needed refinement and review with the vendor. She said that
her team has begun the process of working with Xerox to create a timeline

by which the new improvements will be made to the web portal as well as
reporting and other functionalities. Judy McMurphy shared that to date
Xerox has replaced 20% of the faulty stanchions and should be done within
the next 8-10 weeks.
Director Menten noted the installation of two additional Ticket Vending
Machines (TVMs). She asked for the cost of each TVM. Judy McMurphy
said that she did not have the figure off hand but would get the information.
She explained that currently RTD does have spare TVMs and those are the
TVMs that will be installed. Director Menten expressed concern that on the
light rail there may be validators not working but since there is not
interaction with the driver it might not get communicated to RTD. She is
worried that people may be classified as habitual fare evaders when really
the problem is with the validators. Bruce Abel explained that staff has been
working with Xerox to address the software issues that were causing the
validators to fail. He said that we will not put people into the system as
being an offender until we are 100% sure that everything is functioning as it
should.
Director Solano asked what the difference was between a v13 and v15
Handheld Smart Media Readers (HSMR). Bruce Abel stated that is a
reference to the version of software the HSMR is running.
Director Folska shared that everyone in her District is so excited about the
Smart Cards. She asked when Phase II will be implemented and what it
entails. Bruce Abel indicated that due to the efforts to focus on clean-up
and Q3/Q4 Eco and CollegePass renewals, Phase II will be implemented
sometime in Q3/Q4 of 2014. He stated that this will include RTD’s stored
value, monthly pass, and other pre-paid fare media.

• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update
Bruce Able introduced Eric Farrington, Project Manager. Eric Farrington
shared that all bus installations were completed on August 22 so staff beat
the August deadline. He said another highlight was that on Monday the
automatic stop announcements were started on 28 buses in Boulder (Bond,
Dash, Jump and Skip).
Director Hoy asked if the announcements were working properly. He also
asked when they would be implemented on the remainder of the fleet. Eric
Farrington said there was an issue on the first day as some of the files were
uploaded with an incorrect setting. He stated that all announcements are
working today. Eric said that the program will be launched on the remainder

of the fleet on September 23. He that by testing the program on 28 buses
staff is able to work out any issues so there will be no problem with the
remainder of the fleet.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked when the 450 MHz radios would be
turned off. Eric Farrington stated those were turned off on August 21st and
staff was decommissioning the tower sites this week.

D. Other Matters
Director Walker reminded the Board that the CDOT Annual Dinner will be on
Wednesday September 18th, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. He noted that the location has
changed to Brio Tuscan Grill.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 15, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:54 p.m. to the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

