2024-03-21 –
Executive Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good afternoon, now, everybody. This is Erik Davidson, Chair of the RTD Board
speaking. I will now call to order the March 21 Executive Committee. We are convened as of 12:01
PM, Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to please mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that our committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are continuing to be held
remotely via Zoom and are audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should please send an email to the RTD Board
Office at RTD.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART
transcripts can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live
transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube
page.
I will now call for the attendance of our committee members starting with first Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I am present as well. That is all five members of the
Executive Committee present. For the sake of the record, I see that we are also joined by Director
Dishell, Director Tisdale, and Director Sloan. I don't believe I've missed anybody there. I will note for

the record and ask the Board officer's assistance in doing so if we are joined by other directors
throughout the course of the discussion.
Before I open up to public comment, I would just briefly like to see if there's any objection from the
committee to taking our agenda slightly out of order today. Normally, we would approve our agenda
for next week's board meeting before engaging in our discussion item of the monthly government
relations report update.
However, that discussion today does include an item that could lead to a further agenda item for our
Board meeting next week. As such, I'd actually like to take the government relations update discussion
item prior to moving to approving our agenda for the Board meeting. Are there any objections to that
approach from Board members?
Great. Seeing none, that's what we'll go ahead and do today. And Mr. Davies, thanks for joining us
and being willing to go a little sooner. First we'll go now to public comment and then our recommended
actions before that discussion item. So I will now open up public comment to anyone who would like
to address this committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current
and for the immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not done so, you may raise your virtual hand on Zoom or you may press
star 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee does not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you do wish to be contacted regarding your comment, you may email the Board office
using the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Are there any hands raised for public comment? I am not seeing any. Mr. Kroll, have you seen
anything?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, this is Jack Kroll, executive manager of the Board Office. I do not see
anyone present who has indicated a desire to share public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Well, thank you. Seeing none, I'll then move and ask-- move forward and ask
the Board Office staff, were there any emailed comments received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, Jack Kroll again. There were not any emails received prior to the
meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you, Board Office Executive Manager Kroll. Much appreciate it.
Seeing no comments, then, either during public comment or in written form, I will now close the public
comment period and move into the recommended action portion of our agenda.

There are three recommended actions this afternoon. And as a reminder for committee staff, and
anyone watching or listening, any of these action items that are passed by this Executive Committee,
even if the vote is unanimous, will be included on the Board agenda under recommended actions so
that the full Board will have an opportunity to discuss any measure presented.
For transparency, I would like to note that only two of these items, assuming that they were to pass
today, will be included on the Board agenda. The approval of the committee work plan has to be
approved by the committee, but the approved work plan will be shared with the full Board for reference
and review.
With all of that being stated, we'll move to our first recommended action. This is for the adoption of the
Board operating guideline amendments. This is for the Board to adopt the amendments to the Board
operating guidelines. Do we have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved. Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second. Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movement as Secretary Guzman, the second as Treasurer Bouquet.
Thank you very much. I would now ask that Mr. Kroll, our Board Office executive manager, please
make any comments or presentation that you would like regarding this matter.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Jack Kroll again, executive manager of the Board Office.
The materials for your Board packet included a red-line version that had highlighted the changes that
were made from the last time this item came before you all, which was in February. And it came before
you all as a discussion item.
We are grateful for the further input. Much of the highlighted comments came from Directors Tisdale
and Sloan. There are some very reasonable changes in there. And the one major change, I would
argue, that came forward was from Director Tisdale, who identified there had been some discussion
to remove some language referencing unfinished FasTracks corridors.
However, Director Tisdale pointed out-- and we did some further research here in the Board Office-that the Board actually passed a resolution in 2019 addressing those unfinished corridors. And I think
it would be inappropriate for your Board operating guidelines to, in effect, not match what was
previously acted upon by the Board in a resolution.
So we reinserted that language based off of that feedback and made some slight revisions to it, but
other than that, this is substantively very similar to what you all saw in January-- or, excuse me-- in
February.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate the comments on that and sharing the additional
feedback that was received. Very much appreciate Director Sloan and Director Tisdale for submitting
comments and helping to make adjustments and particularly identifying areas where we would be
incongruous with other Board policy. So certainly thank you for those comments.
Again, I'd like to thank Secretary Guzman and Treasurer Bouquet for taking the time to work in with
Mr. Kroll and thank you, Mr. Kroll, for updating these guidelines. They are meant to be evergreen and
revisited. So Mr. Kroll, thank you for raising this, working on this, and for all those who have spent time
on it.
With all that being said, I'll open up to see is there any discussion regarding these Board operating
guidelines as they appear in the packet. And I'll call for committee members or Board. All right, seeing
none, I'll go ahead and call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action?
All right, seeing none, with the movement of Secretary Guzman, the second is Treasurer Bouquet, this
does pass unanimously with five aye votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions. Thank you.
We will now move to the second recommended action. This is for the appointment of Director Lewis
to the Operations and Safety Committee. This is for the Board of Directors to ratify Director Lewis's
appointment to the Operations and Safety Committee. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Bouquet. Oh. You can take it, Peggy.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard the movement as Catlin, and I'll put the second in. So movement is First
Vice Chair Catlin. Second is Treasurer Bouquet. So if the committee would indulge me, I'd just like to
briefly touch upon this.
As we all know, with the tragic situation and resignation of our colleague, Director Williams, when we
made the committee assignments as a Board earlier this year, Director Williams was not on one of our
standing committees. Based on preference and based on some discussion, Director Buzek had offered
to fill in on the Operations and Safety Committee for which Director Williams had been serving
throughout her time on the RTD Board and was also then, likewise, amenable to step aside should
that be of interest to our newly appointed director.
In this case, Director Lewis has indeed expressed quite a bit of passion and interest in joining the
Operations and Safety Committee, having a number of ideas and experience to contribute and bring
to that committee. So following conversations with both Director Lewis and Director Buzek, Director

Buzek had offered to step aside from the committee so that Director Lewis may come on to the
committee as the seventh member.
That's what's led us to where we are here. We're, I think, all delighted to have Director Lewis and his
experience that he would bring to this committee. So thank you for allowing me to share the rationale
and a little bit of the background there. And I certainly would be remiss not to thank Director Buzek as
well, for his willingness to help the committee move forward and also ensure that Director Lewis will
have that spot.
So with that, is there any discussion on this recommended action? All right, seeing none, I'll call for
the vote. Are there any no votes? All right, wonderful. Seeing none, again, the motion will pass
unanimously with five aye votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions, this being the mover of First
Vice Chair Catlin and the second of Treasurer Bouquet. So thank you very much, and very exciting to
have Director Lewis. So it's a certainly happy and exciting recommended action.
And lastly, we'll move to our final recommended action, which is the approval of the 2024 Executive
Committee work plan. This is for the Executive Committee to approve its 2024 committee work plan.
Do I hear a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second. Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear the movement as Second Vice Chair Guissinger and the second as Secretary
Guzman. Thank you. And now, again, I'll turn to Mr. Jack Kroll, our Board Office executive manager
to go ahead and fill in anything here. I would just add, this has been a good work in progress, before I
open it up to Mr Kroll here.
And as we've talked about, this is the first time doing this. Perfect is certainly the enemy of good. There
are opportunities to revisit this. I think, certainly, Executive Committee is going to face some twists and
turns throughout the year. And there will be some areas that we do need to revisit.
I would like to thank Mr. Kroll for engaging with me and with other members of the Executive Committee
to help pull this together. Mr. Kroll, I'd like to just call on you, if it's OK, to see if there's anything in
particular you'd like to highlight from some of the recent changes. I'm also just going to make sure I
have the full table up in front of me as well here. So Mr. Kroll, if you'd like to make any comments, the
floor is yours.
JACK KROLL: Sure. Thank you, Chair Davidson. And again, Jack Kroll, executive manager of the
Board Office. I do want to call attention to a couple items that were added recently to this. And that is,

one is in relation to potential bylaw change-- bylaw amendment, rather-- that would afford the Chair
the ability to make a committee appointment in the event of a vacancy.
This arose out of the appointment of Director Lewis to the Board by the mayor and the confirmation of
that appointment by city council. Effectively, Director Lewis didn't have anywhere to land on a
committee assignment. And there isn't a process, if there's a committee space that becomes vacated,
that's spelled out in your bylaws.
The only area in the bylaw that references that is the initial naming of the committees on an annual
basis. So that's a good process. It works well, but in the event you have an absence, you don't really
have clearly-defined processes. So that's a conversation that got added on here.
The other items that were added that are, perhaps, of more interesting note is Director Guissinger had
asked for a conversation around new director orientation and continuing director trainings that's been
added to the work plan for June.
And then, in a carryover of some conversations that were happening last year between then-Chair
Guissinger and the Citizens Advisory Committee, you all will see some items next month and into May
that relate to updating the charge and the charter for the Citizens Advisory Committee.
And with that, I think maybe one more item that I'll highlight here is, in the back half of this year, looking
at more clearly defining the role of the Executive Committee. Right now, the Executive Committee is
responsible for government relations, legislation, outward-facing communications from the Board and
then ministerial matters relating to the Board.
And ministerial matters relating to the Board, I think, could be spelled out a little bit more. It's been the
practice of-- since I've come on board-- to really bring heavy-hitting policy items that relate to Board
governance through the Board-- or, excuse me-- through the Executive Committee.
And I think that would be something that would add to the clarity and the mission and the role of the
Executive Committee in a meaningful way. So that's slated for conversation in the back half of this
year. And with that, I don't have anything else to highlight on this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Thanks for highlighting some of the substantive changes.
There is quite a bit coming forward from the committee this year. Again, I think given that the committee
is responsible in the government relations area, with quite a bit of activity going on, it's likely that we'll
be revisiting some items here. But Mr. Kroll, thanks for highlighting those. I'll open up the floor for
discussion and questions from committee members first. And I see that first Vice Chair Catlin's hand
is up. So please go ahead. The floor is yours.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Jack, for taking time with me earlier to go
through this work plan. And as I reflected on it, the last time there was a vacancy, I believe it was me.
I mean, Erik went through the normal cycle, but back then, we did not have committee assignments
as we do now. Everything was committee of the whole.
And so when it was then-Chair Tisdale was in charge when I was appointed, it really didn't even need
to be addressed because we were all members of the committees as a whole. And so this is the first
time it's really come up. And I think putting a process in place for the chair to fill that vacancy makes a
lot of sense. So I just wanted to remind others that that's why we hadn't ever addressed it before, and
this is fairly new. That's all I had to say. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. First Vice Chair Catlin. And, yeah I would just echo, I think,
this is just one of those catches that we have from new process and now going through the first
vacancy experience with it. And certainly, the objective is to honor the bylaws we have around the
election of officers or the election of the chair and vice chair within the committees.
But yeah, this would allow us to ensure that the vacancy is filled, and a director is immediately able to
then serve on the committee and have an effect. So thank you for the comments on that. Other
questions or discussion from committee members? OK.
I also just did want to say as well thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger, for working in with the
Board Office there on the orientation and training items, another important one. And the ongoing nature
of that, I think, is we'll look forward to discussing that. Board members, any Board members, noncommittee members have any questions concerning the committee work plan?
All right, seeing none, I'll again go ahead and call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action?
Being none, this, too, will pass unanimously, with five aye votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions,
with the mover as Second Vice Chair Guissinger and the second as Secretary Guzman.
All right. Well, thank you very much. As I mentioned before, we're going to go a little bit out of order.
We're going to take the first of our two discussion items prior to moving on to our March Board meeting
agenda review. So this will be our monthly government relations update and discussion that we will
take before moving forward.
At this time, I would now like to hand the floor over to Mr. Michael Davies, our government relations
officer, to please present the item which, among other updates, will have a lot to do with Senate Bill
24-184. So Mr. Davies, the floor is yours, please.

MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair, and members of the Board. Michael Davies, government
relations officer. As mentioned, I'll quickly go through the regular government relations report. And
then I will follow up and end with a summary and discussion of Senate Bill 24-184.
So starting at the federal level, Saturday, March 9, President Biden did sign into law the full-- or the
remaining months of federal fiscal year 2024's appropriations bills. This is a package of bills. So it
wasn't the full number of appropriations bills that funds our entire federal government, but it was a
package of them.
And included in that package of appropriations bills was the Transportation, Housing and Urban
Development, or the THUD bill, which funds US Department of Transportation. Included in that bill
were Congressionally-directed spending allocations. So RTD was awarded and appreciate the support
from our two senators and from Representative DeGette, who sponsored RTD's direct spending
allocation of $850,000.
And these were for, essentially, projects throughout the entire country that are eligible projects for
federal transportation funding but essentially going back to the era of earmarks, where Congress would
direct certain amount of money to certain projects, that process has restarted, beginning last year in
FY 23. The second round was this year, FY 24. And Congress is anticipating about doing this same
process for FY 25 as well.
But as mentioned, RTD was allocated $850,000 for RTD's near-term downtown rail reconstruction
project. Additionally, I think good news out of the federal appropriations bill was that enough funding
was allocated to the to the Federal Transit Administration's Capital Investment Grant Program to be
able to fund the East Colfax BRT project.
RTD has been in that multi-year grant process, in partnership with the City and County of Denver, to
be eligible for funding out of the Capital Investment Grant Program. And with the appropriations bill's
passage, funding is there. RTD just needs to now finish out, along with City and County of Denver,
finish out the requirements to be fully eligible and hopefully receive that grant award from US
Department of Transportation.
Lastly, I wanted to mention there were a number of raised grant applications that were submitted by
municipal partners that RTD supports and wanted to make sure that the Board was aware of some of
those.
The raised grant was due-- the applications for the raised grant was due on February 28. And there
were three of them that cities from around the region requested RTD to support. So we look at those
projects and see how they can benefit RTD customers and are happy to support our municipalities in
seeking those federal grant fundings.

The three projects were City and County of Denver, and that is a proposed pedestrian bridge that goes
from the National Western Stock Yard stop on the N line and connects over to the CSU spur. I don't
know if any of you have ever had to walk that over. Right now, it's quite a lengthy walk. A pedestrian
bridge would certainly make some wonderful pedestrian connections there from our transit stop.
Second, the city of Lafayette, in conjunction with efforts around Colorado 7 BRT efforts that the
Northwest region has really championed over the years. This is really improvements to one of the
intersections along those lines to support the notion of continued development around Colorado 7
Transit Service. And those are largely pedestrian amenities and should make pedestrian movement
around that intersection of 195th Street and Colorado 7 easier.
Lastly, city of Thornton proposed a project that would, again, make some pedestrian and transit access
improvements along 104th Avenue in Thornton.
So that concludes the federal remarks at the state level. And I will, again, follow up with the Senate
Bill 184 in a moment, but just more broadly at the state level and something that the Board is engaged
on is Senate Bill 32, the methods to increase use of transit.
That bill has been advanced to the Senate Appropriations Committee. It's been there for a while now
and really is awaiting, along with a huge host of other bills, is just waiting for the state to finish out their
long bill budget. And then they can start moving those bills that have been parked in appropriations for
some time. They'll start moving those through committee. And we'll keep the Board updated there.
Moving on to the local update, there are three fruitful engagements with municipal partners since the
last time that I gave a report to the committee. First, on February 27, Director Sloan, Director Harwick,
Director Catlin, myself, and our local affairs contractor, Jen Webster, did attend a staff briefing with the
Jefferson County Board of Commissioners. And that was a welcomed opportunity and good chance to
dialogue with the Board of Commissioners and Jefferson County.
On February 29, General Manager and CEO Johnson, Director Tisdale, Director Dishell, Director
Catlin, myself, and, again, Jen Webster participated in a meeting with the City of Littleton and a number
of other partners that participate in transportation in the City of Littleton and again, a great opportunity
to share priorities from RTD's perspective and hear what Littleton what they're focused on from a transit
perspective.
And then lastly, on March 7, Director Sloan, myself, and, again, Jen Webster participated in a joint
meeting with Jefferson County commissioners and mayors. And again, great opportunity to share
some of our priorities, share some of the details related to TABOR challenges and overall, again, get
a chance to hear from both commissioners and mayors from around Jefferson County about projects
they're working on and how RTD can be a good partner to those municipalities.

And then so going back to-- and you all have seen press articles on this and the bill itself, Senate Bill
24-184, titled Support Surface Transportation Infrastructure Development. And that's sponsored by
Senate President Steve Fenberg, Senator Marchman, House Speaker McCluskey, and
Representative Boesenecker.
And that bill was introduced on Tuesday and is expected to be heard next week. I believe Wednesday
is the date that I've heard, but that's not totally scheduled yet but expected to be heard next week.
There are 12 sections to that bill. Sections 1 and 2-- and I'll just go through down section by section
and give you a quick analysis of each section. Sections 1 and 2 are legislative findings and
declarations. Section 3 is the section that's most primarily driven and connects with RTD. It makes
changes to the RTD statute.
It directs RTD, in cooperation with Front Range Passenger Rail and CDOT, to submit reports to the
legislature and governor on implementation plans to construct and operate Northwest Fixed Guideway
Corridor, including an extension from Longmont to Fort Collins.
Included in that Section 3 is authority for RTD to operate and construct a rail service outside of the
RTD boundary, as long as RTD is reimbursed fully for the construction and operation of anything that's
outside of RTD's boundary again, just authority to do so.
Sections 4, 5, and 6 of that bill are explicit authority to enter into IGA or a new legal entity. And that
could be seen as, potentially, a JPA or a different structure, but they use language, "a legal entity."
From my understanding, RTD already has the authority to do that. So really, Sections 4, 5, and 6 are
statutory messaging to say, we're just spelling it out that RTD can do something that we already have
the authority to do if we wanted to.
Section 7 is regarding reporting for CDOT and FRPR. It does not deal with RTD, but it deals with
reports that would be mandated for both CDOT and FRPR to report to the legislature and governor.
And I think that this is a big part of the bill. Sections 8, 9, and 10 really stand up a new fee. And so this
would be a fee. It authorizes a new fee on rental cars. It modifies the existing uses of how the state
uses rental car fees that are currently in place and modifies how the new fees added into that can be
used for surface transportation projects.
It changes the definition of "surface transportation projects" within state statute. This is mostly the
statute that governs CDOT. And so essentially, lays out a new path of how the state could contemplate
using this new funding source that they're establishing and authorizing in Sections 8, 9, and 10.

As read through the bill, much of the messaging-- and you've seen this in, maybe, some of the articles
that have been printed-- much of the priority of where they are planning and hoping some of that money
goes to is some of the rail connections.
That could be Front Range Passenger Rail. That could be the rail concept up to Craig and Hayden
that they've talked about that goes along the UP track there. And then it could also include extensions
of Bustang service and other services to help statewide transportation, statewide transit connections.
Section 11, again, is legislative declarations. And Section 12 is the safety clause. So just circling back
and to highlight, again, Section 3 of the bill really is the section that does make statutory changes to
RTD.
RTD has had conversations with the bill's sponsors. And the bill sponsors have indicated there's a
strong willingness to amend and change this language and certainly a desire to partner with RTD on
what works to move forward in this bill. And so with that, I will conclude my remarks and happy to take
any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies, thank you very much for your report, and thank you for the section-bysection walkthrough of Senate Bill 24-184. I appreciate you being here and for all of the work. It's been
a busy, busy few weeks for you, so thank you. I also want to say, for the sake of the record, that
Director Rosenthal has joined us.
Just before opening up the floor for discussion, which I will do for committee members and directors
all together, I want to just say a few words here. We do have a process. We do follow a process here.
A bill has been introduced. We do have our lobbyists, Brandy Mary McKenna at the state level that
would be working on and engaging with us on this. Is now an introduced bill. We are a policy body of
the whole.
It is incumbent upon the Board to have some discussion around our reaction to this and ask our
questions, be understanding of this, and have some general guidance now to come out of this for staff
to proceed forward with a recommendation for a position that the Board may take as a whole. And
prior to testifying in front of the committees or putting forward any kind of amendments, we'll need to
take that position.
So I had wanted to have this discussion here today so that we can have some idea of how we would
like to direct staff of what to bring before the full Board and would like to add an agenda item to our full
Board meeting on Tuesday, which is why we've done this a little bit out of order.
It does strike me that the primary section that has the most material impact on RTD is Section 3, where
the word "district" is used, but it is referring to the Regional Transportation District, which differs, then,

when in Section 5, we're referring to the district as the Front Range Passenger Rail District and its
legislation.
So in that Section 3 is where there's a number of things that are calling on RTD, for example, the
development of a plan, an implementation plan, that would come No later than September 30, 2024,
which, obviously, would come with a substantial fiscal note and obligations to the agency.
As Mr. Davies alluded to, it is my understanding with recent discussions with bill sponsors that there
is an opportunity to amend and to work on clarifying where the responsibilities for an intercity
passenger rail plan would lie, which I will state for the record at this time, is my opinion would make
most sense to reside with the Front Range Passenger Rail District as opposed to the Regional
Transportation District.
So I think that Section 3 is where, I believe, there's a lot of opportunity to improve the language and
clarify what responsibilities are. And again, just a reminder to everybody that what we need to do here
is get some discussion and some sense of where the Board is so that we can proceed forward and
staff can bring us a recommended path forward on Tuesday for us to then take a position on.
As Mr. Davies mentioned, it is my understanding that this will go to committee next week. That would
start in the Transportation Committee. Then it would proceed to Finance thereafter and then
Appropriations, where it may spend some time. So with that being said, I'll now open up the floor to
any directors who are present here for any questions, any discussion, any general guidance, and
points of clarification here for Mr. Davies. I'll start with Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And of course, I will yield to any members who are on the
Executive Committee, so I can yield to Director Guissinger or should I just go ahead?
ERIK DAVIDSON: That's OK. It's a pretty important, full board conversation here, so let's just go-PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. And I apologize-- thank you, Mr. Chair. And I apologize I'm not on video.
I'm eating lunch at the moment. I don't think anybody wants to see that. So I appreciate, first of all,
your work, your leadership by the leadership of General Manager CEO Johnson, Mr. Davies,
Brandeberry McKenna, all the folks who have been really speaking to legislators, including the bill
sponsor on this particular bill, on these issues.
So I'll just go to the heart of the matter, which is that Section 3. So I guess my concern is that we would
be directed-- and if we do participate in this program that, potentially, our revenues coming in from the
state, if we are, quote, "guaranteed," if that word is being used, we are guaranteed to be reimbursed
or funded for the creation and the running of this service.

But what happens if the state's revenue declines? What happens if there's a recession and that there
are cuts to their revenues? Having seen that happen in the legislature, where they have to cut even
education, things that are very sensitive. So we could end up with a similar situation with FasTracks
that we saw, where we had a decline in revenue. And yet we saw costs increase. So that is my primary
question that I would have.
And then I might as well just ask the follow-up with it so someone can answer, potentially. If you drill
down a little bit, this is going to be funded, in part or in whole, from fees on rental vehicles. And what
happens in a downturn, and people are not coming to Denver or they're not coming to Colorado
Springs or what have you, and they're not renting vehicles, and the revenue declines because they're
not renting those vehicles?
And has anybody from the legislature spoken with the State Tourism Board, or the tourism boards
along the Front Range? Because I know it's very sensitive. The minute you charge an additional fee
on rental vehicles, does that start to deter potential conventions from coming to Denver or Fort Collins
or what have you? So I guess that is my concern.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I'll take the two parts of your comments there. Mr.
Davies, I'll open up to see if there's anything further you'd like to elaborate on regarding the latter
portion of Director Rosenthal's comments with the funding mechanism and if there's been any
additional conversations.
Taking the first portion, Director Rosenthal, you mentioned just the financial modeling here. And given
that Section 3 does include language stating that-- this is on page 12-- that "The district may extend
construction and operations of Northwest Rail Fixed Guideway Corridor beyond the boundaries of the
district, if any and all capital and operating expenses that it undertakes outside the district are fully
accounted for and reimbursed to the district by a public body."
And given that it later calls for an implementation plan by September 30, it's my understanding that, to
your point, part of the implementation plan, or part of a whole plan in any report we would generate,
would want to contemplate the financial model and the financial plan, which, of course, on the
Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study, we're focused on the b-line and the RTD project for
FasTracks and modeling out costs, ridership, ridership and implementation, which, obviously, has
been an $8 million plan and taken some time that we're, fortunately, reaching a conclusion on.
It's been my understanding that it's the Front Range Passenger Rail District has been working on their
service development plan, which would need to include financial analysis and plan on the inner city
passenger rail. So it's my understanding that they could probably modify that to focus on what's in the
bill language here from Denver Union Station to Fort Collins.

And then they could be looking at things like that financial sensitivity, but directly to your point, we
would need a completely new study beyond what we've done with Northwest peak service feasibility
in order to get to those types of cost sensitivities and that type of plan.
So that is my understanding. And I'm curious just on that first part of your comment, Dr. Rosenthal. If,
Mr. Davies, you could comment whether I've characterized that properly. And if you might comment
on what it will-- I mean, we'll have to put a fiscal note forward, correct-- so what it would look like for
us to create a plan and model this. And actually, is this more symbiotic, as I've just characterized, with
what the Front Range Passenger Rail may already be doing with its service development plan?
So just on that first portion of Director Rosenthal's comments, not on the rental fee yet. Mr. Davies,
would you mind just weighing in briefly on that? I also see, Miss Johnson, your hand is up. So if you'd
like to go first, please go ahead.
MICHAEL DAVIES: GM Johnson, do you want to add in a comment first before I go?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, you can present information, Mr. Davies. I want to add some color so there's
an expectation and understanding of what it means by a service development plan and what that
entails going forward and where there's synergies. Thank you.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, thank you. And Director Rosenthal, good question. And I think you raised the
concerns that any project developer or planner would want to bring to a board before getting an actual,
authorized, viable plan to move forward.
As mentioned, this is just authorizing RTD to take these actions if and when a true financial budget or
viable plan to construct and operate a rail service beyond Longmont to North Collins or Fort Collins
were to come to fruition. So this is just simply authorization that the Board could consider this. It does
not mandate it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Miss Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Further to the point about a fiscal note, recognizing that anything this agency
provides will be a rough order of magnitude, as we do not know what we don't know, recognizing that
there is not a service development plan, recognizing that RTD has no information at the ready for
things that rest outside of the RTD's boundaries, these numbers will be very loose.
Recognizing that the genesis for any preparation of this rough order of magnitude will be predicated
upon information that this agency has been able to acquire pursuant to efforts with the Northwest Rail

Feasibility Study that focuses on the peak service option. And I'd be remiss to state that this
organization has yet to receive cost estimates from the Burlington North Santa Fe Railroad. And so
that's why I qualified by being a rough order of magnitude.
And I'm going to step outside of myself a little bit and state that recognizing that this has been put
forward without a in-depth fiscal note and utilizing information that would be germane to make informed
decisions relative to what the future might hold.
I would just ensure that we all keep that in the back of our mind, relative to what this may look like,
since this is all conceptualized from the vantage point of planning activities, not about operations and
maintenance or anything of the a like. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. Thank you, Mr. Davies, for the
answer there. I want to note for the sake of the record that Director Broom has joined us. Thank you
for joining us, sir. And then Mr. Davies, are there any comments you wanted to make regarding the
second portion of Director Rosenthal's questions or comments about the fees? Are we aware of any
other stakeholders that have been consulted in this or anything you want to comment on that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, thank you, Chair, and thank you, Director Rosenthal, for the second part of
your question there. I am not aware of the full discussion that bill sponsors have had with the various
stakeholder groups that may or may not be impacted with regards to the rental car fees. I think all of
the points that you raised are valid and things to be considered.
But again, the fund that is being created isn't necessarily a directly impactful fund to RTD. Maybe you
could contemplate that somewhere in the future, the definitions used in there, those funds could be
used for projects that are associated with RTD. But it is certainly not a direct line to say, this new
enterprise and funds being created by this are going directly to RTD. So that is the way I've looked at
that section. It hasn't been necessarily something that we can put into our wallet and start planning on.
Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Thank you, Mr. Davies. I'll move next
to Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm just going to run through comments top to bottom. So
starting with Section 1, the bill appears to use wasted gas and the cost of wasted gas as justification
for some of the costs, which appears to be inconsistent with state law, which focuses on putting more
electric vehicles on the road. So you're using a cost of one item, which, theoretically, shouldn't be used
for much longer, as justification for a spend and as a way to justify the bill.

Separately, there's a heavy focus on greenhouse gas emissions and reducing greenhouse gas
emissions. So on the first note, they note rental cars, which I touched on. But if you actually wanted to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions-- and it talks a lot about an equitable tax and those who may not
be able to afford a car outright may rent a car for a short period of time to do what they need to do.
An equitable tax on greenhouse gas would actually be a cost of carbon or, in the alternative, you would
tax the private Jets that are flying in and out of BJC, Vail, Hayden, et cetera, if you're focused on
tourism and wanting to make sure that those funds are aligned.
There's a talk about vehicle miles traveled and trying to reduce VMT, but there's a notable lack of use
of one of the best tools that we have to reduce VMT, which would be bus rapid transit, which is notably
missing. And so there's a lot of logical fallacy that exists in Section 1 as the justification for the bill.
And while I know Section 1 is not so binding, I do think it's important to call attention to, you want to
be logically consistent in legislation. It's really important because that's how regulators interpret it.
When it talks about RTD expanding its authority to spend funds, I recognize that this is probably more
of a legal question, but there's certainly a question in my mind as to whether, while the state has the
ability to amend RTD's enabling legislation, does it have the ability to amend the authority given by
bonded funds to spend them outside of the district?
And I don't know the answer. I don't expect anyone to have the answer offhand, but I do hope that
someone's looked into that because we may be put in a situation, should this pass, to spend funds
that set us up for a lawsuit for spending funds extra judiciously. Even though the enabling legislation
would allow us to operate, the funds supporting it may not. And I want to make sure that we've really
considered that.
There's a lot of discussion of a surface transportation infrastructure network. I don't really know what
that means because the definition of a surface transportation infrastructure network is a surface
transportation infrastructure network, as stated in the bill. I believe that means roads. It's been very
well studied that expansion of roads increases greenhouse gas emissions as opposed to decreasing
greenhouse gas emissions.
It discusses the creation of an agency and then also discusses the creation of the one new agency
plus two existing agencies, making a third agency, which almost certainly increases costs for taxpayers
because each of those agencies needs its own executive director. Each of those agencies needs its
own staff.
And there's a question-- I think there's a really valid question of, which agencies should be responsible
for which modes of transportation? But I think we're teetering on the bureaucracy for bureaucracy's

sake by having four agencies with auspices over one rail system, recognizing that you could also do
it through an IGA.
There's a Reference in Section 1 about identifying a way to combine our revenue streams to fulfill the
train obligation. I do think it's important there to have a carve-out for RTD, such that we're not required
to sacrifice service.
With the delegation that brought and a direction that brought in Section 1, without the same thing
flowing through in Section 3 or Section 2, I do have concern that someone may put their thumb on the
scale to say, it doesn't say how you have to combine the revenue. RTD, I believe, has the most revenue
of any of those three. So pro rata, RTD should therefore fund. And I don't know that-- I'd like to see us
have a little bit more protection there.
On Section 2, it's unclear who pays for this convening, this negotiation of an IGA and how that's funded.
So I have concerns there that RTD is left holding the bag. It would be good to specify how that's going
to be funded and who will be paying for it. Section 10 is the creation of a new government to oversee
these funds, with the intent to create a fourth agency, which I talked about.
And then finally, I pulled the data that we have available to us with respect to the fee and the impact it
can actually have, which I believe to be insufficient to cover the goal here. If you look at the Department
of Revenue today, vehicle daily rental fee is $2.13. If you assume that every car that's going to be put
forward under this bill is gas, just to really juice the numbers, it's about an 87% increase.
In the 2022 annual report, the total daily rental fees was $30,281,122. If you use $30 million as the
base, and you assume an 87% increase due to the increase in fee, you're left with $56.1 million, which
I think, as we all know, is wildly insufficient and also probably insufficient to bond over.
Even if you assume-- if you handwave the capital expense, you raise it all through grants and other
means-- I know we have not yet finished our current study to make sure we're all using the same
numbers, but I believe a prior study indicated that it would cost, just for our section, just for RTD's
Northwest Rail, around $50 million in O&M.
So if you handwave the capital expense, it is still highly unlikely that $56.1 million can float the rest of
the rail. And so my concerns here-- I have no issue talking about, how do we create efficiencies? I
think investing more in transit is good. I think getting this first bite at the apple is beneficial.
What I'm concerned about is that RTD may be obligated to contribute more and do more than this bill
generates revenue for. And so those are my thoughts on the bill as written.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for all of the very thoughtful comments and calculations and thorough
thinking there, Director Dishell. Very much appreciate it. I will now go to-- and I didn't hear a question
in there. Again, thank you for the comments. I did note your potential legal question, which we can
come back to. Were there any things you wanted staff to address at this time, Director Dischell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Unless I said something that was an incorrect assumption or out of bounds. It'd be
good to know the answer to the legal question. It can come via email. It doesn't need to come now,
but I think that is, frankly, pretty important to understand as we decide a position on the bill. Other than
that, no, just comments and a request for a carve-out on language, should the rest of the Board and
Michael Davies and everyone feel that appropriate.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. I appreciate it. Excellent. I'll move to Second Vice Chair
Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and I agree. Thanks, Director Dishell, everybody, the very good
questions. I think there are a lot of questions here. Michael, thank you for that section-by-section report.
That was really helpful. One thing I hadn't thought about until just then, I think that the sponsors and
drafters have indicated an interest in amending Section 3 so that RTD is not the lead organization, and
we can come back to that.
But in the reports required of CDOT and front Range Passenger Rail and Section 7, I can't remember.
Are those totally just for them? Would we become part of that if the first part is amended, if Section 3
was amended?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Director Guissinger. Yes to the first part of your question,
willingness to look at that Section 3 and, essentially, remove RTD, changes to RTD's statute in that
section and potentially look at alternative entities to replace RTD in that. And that has been one of the
willingness items, I think, to look at from bill sponsors.
With regards to Section 3, nothing in Section 3 lists RTD's statute. So my read is that it is strictly for
CDOT and Front Range Passenger Rail, with regards to those specific reporting requirements.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And that raises, I guess, another question that I think, ultimately,
we'll need to look at, which is there are options that others might have in terms of amending Section
3. One is that Front Range Passenger Rail would become the lead. One would be that we'd have to
enter the IGA or whatever the entity is, JPA or something, and all four would become a lead. So us
thinking through what seems to make the most sense, I think, would be helpful.

Likewise, in Section 3, I think it's-- and I've read it several times-- it's ambiguous as to what they're
asking us to build. And I think that was suggested by someone earlier, maybe the Chair, that if we're
extending-- if we're building-- are they envisioning Northwest Rail or are they envisioning Intercity
Passenger Rail? is the simplest way to say that.
And maybe, if it's no longer RTD's responsibility to just build it or to plan it, that would become clearer.
But I think that as we think about amending, that that could become clearer in the statute as well.
And then, I think, whether we recommend an amendment on this or engage the conversation with the
sponsors and the people promoting it, the dates are problematic. Having a report by September 30,
an implementation report, and some of the other dates in there, I think, are things we would want to
address as well. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. And First Vice Chair Catlin,
please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a couple things. Director Dishell, thank you very much
for your very thorough analysis and expression of concerns. I listened in on the Front Range Passenger
Rail Board workshop that was held in February. And a lot of those Board members were under the
assumption that they would be able to use RTD's FISA account.
That still concerns me, that that assumption is out there, even though GM CEO Johnson has been
very clear about where the authority to spend that money lies. So I very much appreciate the efforts
that you have put forth, Mr. Davies and others, with the bill's sponsors and others and especially with
their willingness to amend Section 3. I think that's a step in the right direction.
And this is, perhaps, another concern that I have. And maybe my information is stale, but there's
another entity involved there, and that's the CTIO, which is a special enterprise under-- I mean, it's a
business under CDOT, but it is separate. That has its own Board of Directors, and then there's the
CDOT Commission.
This is yet another entity. And when Director Dishell talked about bureaucracy for the sake of
bureaucracy, I have some concerns there. They have the ability to collect fees, but back when I was
the director of the predecessor to the CTIO, it was very, very clear that fees had to be direct user
benefit.
And my interpretation of a rental car fee that would go towards rail is not a direct user benefit. And I
don't know if we would be subject to a legal challenge from the rental car agencies and/or the users.
And also, to Director Dishell's point about the equity piece. Those are just some thoughts that I have,

and I'm sorry that they're rather random. But I just look forward to watching this amendment process
evolve. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Firt Vice Chair Catlin. Appreciate it. And I did want to touch on-in your comments, one of the things you mentioned was the FasTracks internal savings account. And
I'd like to thank General Manager and CEO Johnson, just as you acknowledged, Director Catlin, for
clarifying in her role as an ex-officio on the Board of Directors of the Front Range Passenger Rail
District that the FISA are funds that were created-- in an account that was created by the Board and
that the Board of Directors has auspices over that.
And also, I would just like to note that this week that we're in, General Manager and CEO Johnson
and myself did convene with and send a letter to the Front Range Passenger Rail District's chair and
general manager, just making sure we set out and clarify where we each independently stand, our
understanding that they're working on the service development plan, conveying that we are nearing
completion of our Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study, our intent to share information with
each other, our understanding that there was no specific ask, and then, also, clarification on the use
of FasTracks' internal savings account funds being under the auspices of the Board.
So Director Catlin, thank you for commenting on that and just wanted to call attention to that letter
having been sent earlier this week And thank the general manager for the continued reminder of at
those Board meetings. With that, I'll call on Secretary Guzman next.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I have two questions and maybe a suggestion. And this is more
thoughtful for the Board members, but how do we contemplate, now or later, given the structure of
this, that we would use even a penny of RTD money externally to the district boundaries?
I'm really bothered by the idea that that money would go anywhere outside of RTD, given the reality
that we face and trying to provide the service that we strive for within the district boundaries. I think
mentions have been made of it for parts of Jefferson County. Broomfield loves to give us guff about
the 128.
We're facing summer changes, trying to do the service and the repair work within the district. How
could we possibly contemplate spending one penny of our money outside of those boundaries that
have been delineated?
And I would not be interested in the least in having to go back to my constituents and try and explain
why I would vote to participate in that use of funds. So just a bit of a statement and some food for
thought.

I also don't think that it would be legal for us to use the FasTracks' voter-approved language which
binds us and how we use that 0.4% sales tax that has been saved for FasTracks' uses for anything
other than that. And an intercity rail was not contemplated in that language. It's specifically to be used
for our commuter rail or light rail system within the district boundaries. So to break the bound, I think,
we would be facing potential legal action and not in a good way.
The difference between intercity that's addressed here. And what we are contemplating for Northwest
Rail service are two completely different concepts and bypass communities. So there is an equity issue
with that and who we are serving and who is paying for the service.
The moment we open up the boundary to north of Boulder County, up into Fort Collins, we are then
taking money from other areas and essentially using that for service to parts of the state that we do
not have purview over. And I don't buy the guarantee of refund or reimbursement as far as I could
throw paper airplanes made out of this bill draft, to be clear.
Finally, is there any opportunity-- and this would be my guiding, maybe, statement for Mr. Davies and
for staff-- is there any way that we can just simply ask the sponsors to remove RTD from this? Because
the onus and the responsibility of paying for, completing the studies of, and coming up with a plan for
intercity rail to Fort Collins, do not belong to RTD.
They belong to the Front Range Passenger Rail and, probably, to the Colorado Department of
Transportation, working in tandem together to figure out their business while we worry about our own
issues here in this region, in this district.
And I think it is-- for the lack of a better term, they're trying to break a piggy bank that doesn't belong
to them. And it's our job, my job as an elected official to this Board to protect the taxpayer interests
within this region. And I'll go to the mat on that. I'm not going to be the expert that they maybe want
me to be, but I am going to be the person who pays taxes and wants to make sure that the money is
used in the intended manner that it was given to be used and for nothing else.
And so I think what they're asking of RTD at this point is irrelevant to the business that we have to deal
with at hand and should probably be reassigned to the appropriate district and the appropriate
authority.
That does not mean that we will not have conversation with them. That does not mean that we will not
cooperate with them on what we can. And that's not to say that I'm not open-minded to having those
negotiations or discussing anything further, but as has been stated, there's no plan. There's no clear
ask. The responsibilities are fuzzy at best.

And it's a bit obfuscating to put RTD in the position of having to finance somebody else's project and
plan that has nothing to do with the services, operations, or maintenance that we must attend to within
our own district. You take care of the home first, and then you can help everybody else. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. And I think in that last point there, you were starting
to hint at a question for Mr. Davies about, is there an opportunity to remove RTD? And so I think, in
looking at Section 3 and certainly what I've heard in the course of the discussion here, that's where
the changes to our statute, to the RTD statute, are referenced and where the descriptions are regarding
operating outside the district's boundaries, the report by September 30.
So I'm wondering if, Mr. Davies, would you mind commenting based on Secretary Guzman's
comments and other comments here, what this bill would look like if the bill's sponsors were open to
amending Section 3 to an alternative entity other than the Regional Transportation District? Perhaps
that's the Front Range Passenger Rail District, since they are working on an intercity rail service
development plan.
But what would that do to the bill? We heard from Director Dishell about the potential need for a carveout to protect services within the district. I guess, looking at the bill very holistically, zooming back out
and looking at all those different sections, if Section 3 changed from RTD to an alternative entity, where
RTD is called upon to be one of the collaborative entities but not the accountable lead entity, what
would the rest of this bill look like in terms of our responsibilities at RTD and what any fiscal impact
could be? Would you mind commenting on that, Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, and thank you, Director Guzman. Before I touch on the
well-framed hypothetical scenario there, just to assure you, the concerns that you raised are exactly
the concerns that staff has also raised with bill sponsors. So we very much track along exactly your
thinking on those questions, statements that you said.
Speaking to Chair Davidson's hypothetical, the way that I read the bill-- and I think others agree when
read through-- when you change RTD's statute to mandate RTD take the lead in studying a potential
rail solution that's outside of RTD's district, that does raise that concern of using RTD taxpayer dollars,
without a clear funding source, to fund that planning process.
And so that is very much something that we have raised with the bill sponsors in the short time that
we've had since this bill was actually introduced and RTD was actually able to see it.
So going along with Chair Davidson's thought there, if you were to not change our RTD's statute, but
if you were to change Front Range Passenger Rail's statute to say, Front Range Passenger Rail, here
is the charge in your statute that the state would like to add to your statute to, perhaps, continue or

think about planning on a corridor that you're already planning on and for a service that you're already
planning, that, in many ways, seems like a logical and appropriate approach to look at going forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. And then, in that case, if that were to happen, I mean, do
we face fiscal impact on that plan? How would we be obligated? In that Section 3-- so it refers to the
district being a regional transportation district-- quote, "In cooperation with this Department of
Transportation, the high-performance transportation enterprise created in section 43-4-8062AI and the
Front Range Passenger Rail District created in section--"
So in that case, there is this collaboration. If we were to make that hypothetical change and this were
to, say, change the statute of Front Range Passenger Rail District, I would assume, then, that the
Regional Transportation District would move down as one of the cooperative entities.
And perhaps this is a question for Miss Johnson. Would we have financial obligations or impact and/or
continue to face any of the risk of needing to commit resources to projects outside of our district?
Would that remain or would that effectively no longer exist, should such an amendment be made to
Section 3?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing the whole intent is to optimize operational efficiencies, to the point
that Secretary Guzman made, the Regional Transportation District does not provide intercity
passenger rail service. We provide commuter rail service that would be most in parallel with what this
bill is seeking.
So with that as a backdrop going forward, if, in fact, RTD was removed, of course, we would lean in
as relates to complementary aspects of service delivery for the better part of providing passenger rail
service. But what I would surmise is that the obligation with RTD would be within the boundaries of the
Regional Transportation District.
And if, by some miraculous event, there was a plethora of money where Northwest Rail could be
completed, then we would go to the terminus within the RTD boundaries. And perhaps, there's some
fashion of a cross-platform transfer, whereby Intercity Passenger Rail is operated by the Front Range
Passenger Rail District or delegated to an operating provider of the Front Range Passenger Rail
district's choosing via solicitation process. Does that address your question?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. It does. Thank you, Ms Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I appreciate that. First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And Miss Johnson, you pretty much answered the question that I was
about to pose, and that is that we could continue on what has been a parallel track-- pardon the pun-with our study going forward on the peak service plan and then a separate plan for the Front Range
Passenger Rail.
And we would continue along those parallel courses to complete our study and then see what was
feasible along those lines and then, as Director Davidson said, drop down to be a collaborator or a
stakeholder, if you will, in the process but not being directly responsible. So I think you both answered
my question. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Other questions or comments from directors
present? Oh, please, Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. I was trying to find my buttons. So I don't know where everybody else
stands with this, but as it is written, I would be in opposition to it. With some amendments, I might take
no position on it, if we were asked that question. But with RTD being included in this and not really
having the data set that we need to make an informed decision, I'm more inclined to stand against this
type of bill going forward, without serious consideration for RTD's part in it.
I just want to put that out there so that you know. And I know that this is not the Board meeting, and
we're not making that type of decision. But to be clear, without further information, I'm not convinced
this is the right move to make. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. And that gets to the broader question I was going
to ask the group of any directors that are present. So given that we do have a rather compressed
timeline, I think it's incumbent upon us here to have a general idea of what we would like to see come
before the Board on Tuesday as a recommended path forward.
So I think I'd like to just hear from Directors who are willing to raise a hand and speak up, just as
Secretary Guzman did, as to where you are directionally right now. It's encouraging to hear that there
is an openness to amend particularly Section 3 with the bill's sponsors, given that is where there is
substantial obligation for the Regional Transportation District and some question.
But there's a number of ways we could go about this. So if we could get some just general comments
and understanding of where folks are at, then staff can make a recommended path for us coming in
on Tuesday. I see Director Tisdale first. Please go ahead.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I really appreciated Secretary Guzman's
comments. I think they were very well taken, and I concur in those. I have significant concern with the
bill as drafted. I don't have the benefit of seeing it here, but from the discussion, I've discerned much
of what it must say.
I would agree that, if presented as-is, that I would support a position of oppose. In order to secure the
changes that might make this an attractive bill, I would like to say that, perhaps, we could consider
saying, approve if amended rather than, no position if amended.
I think that we need to offer an olive branch here, particularly given the other issues that are
undoubtedly going to come up in this legislative session and that perhaps, God willing, we might get
some good faith back from the legislature if we demonstrated some ability to collaborate here. But it
definitely needs to be amended in order for us to get to that point. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale, for the comments. Much appreciated. I'll go next to
Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: This is just to add weight. I share the same sentiment that Director Tisdale says.
I believe there needs to be that amendment process to go forward. So I just wanted to add weight to
that, that if we are going to get to a yes or approval of it, I think the amendments need to happen. So
I just wanted to add some weight to it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. Other comments from directors? Yes, Second Vice Chair,
Guissinger, please. You're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. I'm in the same place, that Section 3, at a minimum needs to be amended.
I do continue to have concerns about the dates and what's being required. So approve as amended, I
guess I'm generally there. I just have some concerns about what we approve at the same time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm generally there, too, but it's conditional on the amendments. So it
would be a wait and see for me, in terms of whether or not I would be comfortable approving it because
the amendments may or may not be in RTD's favor.

Although I do agree with the very cooperative approach that you all have taken with our legislators
given the environment. And we need to, as Director Tisdale mentioned, perhaps extend some sort of
an olive branch, but I don't want to give up the farm just for that. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Secretary Guzman, please go ahead. No problem.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: My computer froze. Sorry. I was just trying to figure it out.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Been there. I'll make a comment. I've heard some maybe oppose
unless amended, some maybe support, approve if amended, clearly some theme of amendment. I
definitely like first things first. And the only way to get to step 10 is take step 1, step 2, step 3.
To me, Section 3 definitely is problematic. And I think that I'd like to see that amended. I'd like to
understand what impact that has. And I think that has a lot to say about what position would come
next. So I think I'm in a similar place on that spectrum as to what I'm hearing so far here from directors.
Are there other directors with any comments on this?
Mr. Davies, I'd like to ask you-- you've been close to this. Again, it's been a very compressed timeline,
I'm aware. And thank you for going deep in all the meetings you're taking and going back and forth.
Given what you know about this and given the discussion we just had on those sections, do you feel
that you have some direction to frame up what some favorable amendments could look like, based on
the nature of this discussion, that could then come before the Board for consideration on a position on
Tuesday?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, I do, Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Unless there's objection, what I would propose, then, is that
we work with Mr. Davies as well as our lobbyist team-- and I'm happy to work in directly with them-- to
consider what an amendment would look like or amendments would look like that would get this to a
more reasonable place before we take a position. And to make sure that we have that to come forward
to the Board as a recommended action on our Tuesday agenda to be added.
I think it sounds like a reasonable approach, but I just want to see if there's any objections to that
before we proceed. All right, great. Well, with that being the case, I'll address that when we get to the
agenda section. But I think I have an idea of where we want to take things from here. And as always,
I invite directors to please reach out to me with any additional thoughts and considerations on this.
Great. I'll just briefly ask, just since there was obviously a lot in the report there, Mr. Davies, does
anybody have any questions for Mr. Davies while he's here and we are wrapping up our government

relations update discussion, not related to the Senate Bill 24-184? All right. I'm going to go first to
committee members on this one with the question. So I'll start with Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just really quickly-- and I thank you in advance, Mr. Davies and CEO Johnson- I am working with the committee with ACCESS Colorado. And I had sent that request, so just gentle
reminder, we need to follow up with them, too. So if I could get some of that information from you when
possible, just so I know what to speak to when I'm visiting our friends in DC. That would be very helpful,
and thank you for the breakdown. It's really what I'm looking for. So just need to make sure that I'm on
top of it. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I read with great interest a somewhat confusing
and disjointed news account yesterday relative to discussions between Denver and Jefferson County
about, quote, "extending the W line to Red Rocks," which, I guess, when you try to dig through the, as
I said, confused writing constituted some kind of analysis of a bus bridge from Golden to Red Rocks.
And I was hoping that, at some point, we might have some input from staff relative to what discussions
there have been and what, presumably, that means because as written, it left me, especially as the
director for one of the orphaned FasTracks lines down to Highlands Ranch, somewhat confused and
concerned. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I see Miss Johnson's hand. So General Manager CEO
Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Tisdale for the
question. I received an email from Director Ruscha yesterday about the same subject, requesting an
update. And as I shared with her in response, in which I copied the Board Office, I, nor our planning
department nor our service planning division, have had any discussions relative to this. And so I, too,
learned about it from the media clip that you did.
Some time ago, there was a request from City and County of Denver staff potentially to use a space
in our bus box for a bus. That was the extent of it. And there have been no further conversations
relative to that. So I just wanted to share that here, in this public forum, I've had the opportunity to meet
with Council Member Watson. It was on a different issue pertaining to the L line and what might happen
in the future, with a connection to the A line.
That meeting took place-- god, we're in March-- I want to say the latter part of January or early part of
February. In no shape or form did this topic ever arise. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. I saw, Mr. Davies, your hand go up. Was there a
comment you wanted to make on that, sir?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, Chair. And Director Catlin may raise the same point. This was brought up at
one of the Jefferson County meetings that I mentioned in my government relations report. The way it
was framed to us was this is really Commissioner Kerr and others in Jefferson County working with
Council Member Watson, who's mentioned in that article, to contemplate how individuals who may
take the W line out to the end of line could receive some sort of a bus shuttle service to get to Red
Rocks.
And the way it was framed to us was, certainly, this is an independent project from RTD and something
that Jefferson County and City and County of Denver are looking at and contemplating. And all I would
offer is that RTD did educate those individuals in the meeting on RTD's partnership program as just
an outside program that may or may not be of interest to them connected to this. But nonetheless, this
is an independent project that they were working on themselves, from my understanding.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much, Mr. Davies, for that comment. We'll see if your
prediction was right about first Vice Chair Catlin. Sorry to skip over you, Director Catlin. Please go
ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: You were spot on. It was brought up by Commissioner Kerr, and you were kinder
than I would have been. They expressly said they did not want RTD to be involved in that discussion
because they didn't want it to bog down their process.
I think some of the confusion-- we did talk about the partnership program possibilities, but I think some
of the confusion that you may have experienced, Director Tisdale, was especially, last night's Channel
9 News that interviewed Councilman Watson. And he specifically said extension of the W line. And
that really was misleading because they were contemplating some sort of a bus bridge or a shuttle
service. That's all. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair Catlin. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Well, just while we're on the topic, we do have some interesting service change
proposals coming before the Board at next week's meeting, including a permanent change to the W
line hours, which was sent through committee to come to us. And that may change, but for right now,
that's the information that we have available to ourselves and the public.

So until that changes, any idea of doing this, especially during the summertime months, when that's
when Red Rocks is used the most, might not be beneficial to helping our riders.
So I think that engaging in the conversation and trying to understand what Jefferson County and
Denver County are doing would be the most beneficial thing to our riders and, potentially, increase
ridership and decrease greenhouse gases so that we're not taking individual trips up to Red Rocks,
and we're able to utilize the public system that has been placed through Golden back to Denver for
concert-goers. So just an-ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: --for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. And I do believe-- I don't want to jump ahead-- but
we may hear a little bit more from General Manager and CEO Johnson on that area you alluded to
and other matters. Thank you for the comments.
All right, seeing no more hands, Mr. Davies, thank you for being here. Thank you for coming early to
be bumped up in the meeting. I know you had to get back from the Capitol. Secretary Guzman, I see
your hand. Oh, sorry. OK. Yeah, no problem. So Mr. Davies, thank you very much. Appreciate it. I'll
be seeing you shortly, and thank you.
All right, we will move up to the March Board Meeting Agenda Review portion of our agenda. As you
may have noticed, when reviewing the Board agenda outline, there is an item related to the Downtown
Rail Reconstruction Project that is coming forward for our collective consideration at the Board that did
not go through committee.
That item, the Downtown Rail Intersection Reconstruction Contract Award, will be added to the agenda
per bylaws Article V, Conduct of Business, Section 6, the regular Board meeting agenda B and C1,
chair's discretion and items from the general manager.
This is because this concurs with the plan set forward in my email to the Board on February 29,
regarding how we will review and provide authorization and approval to certain items relating to the
Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project. So just calling attention to that having been added to our Board
meeting agenda.
I'd also like to note that the recommended action-- the recommended action language for that item-will read as follows. "For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to enter into a contract with Krish Construction Incorporated, or KCI, for the full-depth
reconstruction of five intersections in downtown Denver in an amount not to exceed $4,320,384."

I would also like to note that on the agenda there was one small error, which occurred when the
monthly government relations report was inadvertently carried over as a discussion item from the
Executive Committee agenda to the full Board agenda for discussion. And as such, given that that is
just a minor error, I am going to remove that item from the agenda.
Finally, based on our conversation that we had during the government relations update, I am going to
suggest that we put forward on the agenda for Tuesday's meeting a recommended action to take a
position on our Senate Bill 24-184, which, I would anticipate-- we'll take a recommendation from staff
on this, once they've had a chance to work with the discussion of today-- but would anticipate that
would include an amend position of some kind.
So with that being the case, I also will just state that when we do have that, my intent would be to
facilitate a robust discussion on the bill with the Board when we do entertain that action. And from
there, then the Board can decide what action to take prior to this bill going to committee.
I do thank our Board Directors who were able to participate today. I know midday meetings can be
difficult. We had 10 directors here, and I very, very much appreciate that. We will, again, address this
on Tuesday.
So with that additional information and, again, summarizing the addition of the contract recommended
action that did not go through a committee, with the adjustment for the error made on discussion items
and the removal of the government relations update and with the addition of an action with regards to
Senate Bill 24-184, I would like to see if there is a motion for the March Board agenda to the Board
meeting on March 26. Do I have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman as amended and corrected by the Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. A second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The movement, Guzman. Second, Bouquet. Is there any discussion on the
agenda? There appears to be a problem here. OK. Great, OK. Can you hear me now on the-- can
someone just confirm they can hear me? Great.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. OK. I had a little bit of a hiccup. Everything dropped on Zoom
there. My apologies for that. I am reconnected. All right, seeing no discussion, are there any no votes
on this action? With five ayes, zero no, and zero abstentions, that motion will pass.

With that, we'll move our discussion back to discussion items. We had a second discussion item. This
is for the draft property and station-naming policies. At this time, I will now ask Executive Manager
Jack Kroll, would you please present this item?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. And again, this is Jack Kroll, executive manager of the
Board Office. I'm going to carry the bulk of this presentation, if not all of it. While Michael Davies did
contribute significantly to this, as you all can tell, his life is very busy right now. I do see a hand raised
from Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I truly apologize. I had looked at my schedule incorrectly, and I have to be at a
physical therapy appointment at 2 o'clock, so I will need to drop off of this call.
There was one other matter that I had wanted to bring up before you go into your presentation, and
that was with regard to some of the work that you all have been doing with some of the other directors
on agency response system that you're working on to provide a more systematic, thoughtful,
businesslike approach to matters that come before staff and the Board so that we're respectful of staff
time and respectful of the Board Office time.
And that's going to be coming on board fairly soon I just wanted to alert you all to that, that we will be
taking that up in a discussion. And I know Jack has been working hard on that. But we just need to
provide some discipline in the way we bring forward requests to staff and to the Board Office. And I
was hoping that this executive committee could take the lead on that. That's all I had, and I do
apologize for needing to get off.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin and apologies about the timing. And
thank you for that and for your work with staff on the agency response system and helping to bring a
more disciplined approach and transparent approach for the sharing of information and the
consolidation and centralization of that. I think we all look forward to understanding that process better
and what data we might get from that and how we can better engage with staff as a board.
And thank you, Mr. Kroll, for holding on that. And I know we've jumped forward a little bit. I did see,
Second Vice Chair Guissinger, your hand go up. So I'd like to call on you next, just to see if there was
something related to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, and I apologize, too, that I have to leave in just about 12 minutes for a
similar reason, so just letting you know. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. I think with that-- and Mr. Kroll, we did
talk ahead of time about the challenge of time that we could run into on this. And perhaps that's why
you have your hand raised. I'll go ahead and call on you.

JACK KROLL: Yeah, Director Davidson, I know that GM and CEO Johnson has an important update
to share about a more timely matter. And my recommendation is simply you can carry the item with
respect to property and station-naming policy. We could simply-- we have two options here. I could
simply present the item next Tuesday to the full board or, given the agenda for that meeting is also
quite packed, I can carry this forward, and we can simply present it in April.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for the suggestions. I did see Secretary Guzman's hand up,
so please, go ahead, Secretary, if you have a suggestion along these lines.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just would move to table the discussion item until April at this point, and we can
pick it up then.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Do we have a second on that?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Any objections? Seeing none, with all five committee members in favor, I
enthusiastically support that. Mr. Kroll, thank you. I apologize for the delay there, but we will take that
to April for discussion at Executive Committee and then to the April Board meeting.
Great. So with that, thank you, everybody, for the patience here. We will then move to other matters
at this time. And I will ask other matters. Mr. Kroll, you alluded to something, General Manager
Johnson, you may want to share. I will call on you first, if you would like.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to share some
very pertinent information with you all. Last Wednesday, during the course-- Wednesday being March
13-- during the course of the Operations and Safety Committee, there were conversations that ensued
relative to the service change.
And with that as a backdrop, there were several questions that were posed talking about the
permanency of things that would happen. And in the response that was provided, I discerned that there
was quite a bit of trepidation and angst.
I actually opined as well as to the response that was provided by our senior manager of service
development and qualified for everybody that there's no such thing as anything being permanent, as
it relates to service delivery.
But with that as a backdrop, I want to provide context for all of you, just so you understand our light
rail network. I think it's very germane in the sense that we are very limited in how we deliver service

here at this organization. After that meeting, I specifically rolled up my own sleeves and met with a
myriad of different staff, individuals from service planning as well as service delivery.
And the reason I qualify this is because it's important to note that we, at this agency, have only one
light rail facility in which all of our trains pull out into revenue service realm. That's not common.
So with that, when a conversation ensued relative to a train being at 10 o'clock, that was referencing
a departure time, recognizing that anything that leaves is Denver Union Station, there are still 47
minutes to get out to the terminal and then to get back to the actual rail facility.
However, with that being said, I would be remiss, in light of the conversation or the topic that First Vice
Chair Peggy Catlin wrote. I want to take this opportunity to say that our staff works hard, and we are
doing things intentionally. And oftentimes, I believe that you all are working hard as well, but there's
moments where information may be misconstrued. And I would just request of this body to always
assume good intention.
I was taken aback to receive some communiqué where it was indicated that staff were trying to hide
something. That is not the issue here. And so with that, I wanted to take this opportunity to address
the matters before us in this forum to say that staff has modified our service delivery model that would
take effect in May.
And I want to provide some qualifiers. There was a question that was posed as to, I don't understand
what's happening with the coping panel projects. Why would this go on longer? One thing's for certain,
that we need to have a maintenance window to do regular inspections of track, as we look at our flange
way and things of the like.
And so with that being said, as we look at our public transportation agency safety plan, there are
certain elements that we need to do to ensure that we can get out on our maintenance and have
maintenance-of-way staff perform routine inspections and maintenance.
With that as a backdrop, with the last service change, a window was decreased only to 90 minutes to
do some work. Recognizing that all trains come out of Elati. there's deadhead time in which to do that.
But more importantly, what you all may not be aware, before anybody can get on that right-of-way, we
have to mobilize units. But before we do that, we have to de-energize power, which can take nearly
an hour to de-energize and then an hour to re-energize. So that's already two hours and a maintenance
window.
And so basically, if you only had 90 minutes, that would only provide 30 minutes to do inspections. So
wanted to provide that. So as we go forward, I want to thank my staff specifically for rolling up their
sleeves and for being creative relative to what it is that we need to do.

So what we intend to bring forward on Tuesday is an updated service plan as relates to our light rail
service delivery model. Recognizing that there was ample concern, and rightfully so, as it related to
Sunday through Thursday service delivery on some critical light rail lines, we are going to shift our
window and ensure that we have service delivery on the line from 5:00 AM to 12:00 AM.
So we're shifting the window, relative to when we pull out service, for its commencement for 5:00 AM
in lieu of 4:00 AM. So we have that window on the back end for people to utilize the service.
And so, as we look at it holistically, we will be amply prepared to go in detail what we're going to do
with the report, in and of itself, is highlight those changes, literally highlight them at the beginning of
the report so Board members have an understanding and can garner what is happening.
I would also say, as we go forward, in reference to delineating between service planning and service
delivery, that it's my intention to have our service delivery professionals talk about the operability and
what happens therein, when questions are posed as opposed to service planning because there is a
difference, but they go together like a hand in glove.
So thank you very much for the opportunity to be able to express that information at this juncture. One
qualifier I will say, if, in fact, we need to take time-- because this is not equally distributed. And what I
mean by that is, the one thing I didn't share is, we look at our deadhead times. I just want to give you
a little snippet to better qualify what I mean.
So when we talk about trains deadheading from a terminal, it takes 20 minutes for a train to get from
Mineral to Elati, 30 minutes from Denver Union Station to Elati, 40 minutes from Lincoln to Elati, 45
minutes from Fed Center to Elati, And our longest route is 71 minutes of deadhead time from Peoria
to Elati.
So as I was educated and informed, I asked the question why we only had one light rail facility? It's
because we wanted to save money. And as we look at what we're up against, as we look at this
legislation coming forward, I would impart upon you to ensure that you all ask the appropriate questions
because never would I say that we should only have one light rail facility because people are
concerned about money.
This is why we have the problems that we have. And you can tell I'm passionate about this because,
once again, we are trying to do the best we can to ensure that we're keeping our assets in a state of
good repair. But through designs, it has limited our ability to do so and manage the expectation of
people that have come to be reliant upon RTD services. So thank you very kindly for the opportunity,
Mr. Chair, to provide that context.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. General Manager and CEO Johnson, thank you very much for all of that, for
sharing all of that. Thank you for sharing the sentiment of requesting assuming a positive intent.
Certainly, I think that that resonates and is important. We're fortunate that we're surrounded by a lot of
folks here who all share a passion for transit and seeing people move to and fro throughout the
community. So assuming positive intent is a great call to action for all of us to continually do and ask
of ourselves. So thank you for that.
And thank you very much to you and to the whole staff for, as you said, rolling up your sleeves to think
about how to respond to some of the comments that have come in and how to manage expectations,
which clearly is a delicate and difficult matter when it comes to taking care of things that are aging but
were not necessarily built in such a manner to make the taking care of them easy to do.
So thank you for highlighting that for all of us. I think that's well understood and characterized. And I
think I speak for all of us when I say I look forward to seeing the creativity and adjustments of the team
this upcoming week. And thank you for that.
I know, again, we've talked about compressed timelines a couple of times here. This is another one of
those compressed timelines, especially with all of the maintenance that is going on. So thank you. Are
there any questions or comments for Miss Johnson at this time, regarding that other matter, while she
is here and while we're on that topic? Secretary Guzman, I see you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just want to say thank you. Thank you for addressing it. Thank you for working
with staff to find a creative solution to it. And thank you for coming back to us with the information.
Sometimes, the comments come or questions come out, and they're not intended to be disrespectful
or surprising, but we're the liaison between our communities and this agency, as elected officials.
And so we get hammered on questions, and they may get passed on in a manner less than ideal
because we're also on compressed schedules as well, trying to communicate back and forth. And so
I just want to tell you, I appreciate you and all of the staff's effort, and I look forward to seeing the
reports. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Guzman. I appreciate that kindly. I'm trying to
keep a team that's been constantly kicked in the teeth motivated. And sometimes, it becomes a lot.
One thing I do want to say that recognizing you talked about keeping things in a state of good repair,
Mr. Chair, when we talk about these windows, this is just typical maintenance that we do.
And we have foregone that. And so that's what causes us, but let me ensure that you're aware that
during the course of the summer, since we adjusted these windows, if there's work that's warranted,
in a heartbeat, I will make the decision to shut down the system so we can do necessary repair work.

And if that happens to be over a Thursday night, Friday night, Saturday night so we can do what we
need to do because we only have a 90-minute window elsewhere, trust and believe I will do that. Thank
you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO for the point of clarification and, Secretary,
for your comments as well. Any other questions or comments on this matter? Any other matters?
I will just touch on and, I think, second our First Vice Chair Catlin for her comments regarding the
agency response system. I think, actually, right along the lines of General Manager and CEO Johnson,
I think we acknowledge what you were saying of getting these requests. And, Secretary Guzman, to
your sentiments of getting requests from constituents, I think we recognize that there's a lot of things
that come into the Board and a lot of things that come from the Board to staff.
So finding ways to really structure that and bring transparency to that, bring accountability to that, I
think is certainly incumbent on this Board this year to really perfect that process, to ease the burden
in a staff-constrained environment that we are all in. So General Manager CEO Johnson, thanks, as
always, to you and your team for the partnership and work with this Board and with the community.
And I certainly thank the Board Office and First Vice Chair Catlin for the work on the agency response
system that can help, I think, in this regard.
With that, again, we'll continue other matters. Mr. Kroll, I did see your hand go up. I just want to see if
there's something you want to touch on related to one of these matters.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Chair Davidson, I just want to sing the praises of the Board Office's staff with
respect to the agency response system. They work really hard. Obviously, I'm new to the role in the
last eight months. And they have connections across this agency that allow the directors and the Board
Office to get information to you all very quickly, and they work really hard to ensure that happens.
In addition to the transition in the office, we've seen about a 60% increase in the number of requests
coming from directors for information. And we hope that this new system that Jillian worked very hard
to put together with our IT department really helps streamline things and not only gets you all
information as quickly as possible but gets you comprehensive information as well and that's well
coordinated with the GM and CEO's team and the Executive Office.
The plan is to launch that new system next week. And so if you have occasion and you're around the
office, please do thank Jillian for all of the work that she put in on this because it's really quite innovative
and will really help ensure that you all are getting the information you need when you need it.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate it and echo the sentiments. The whole office and
Jack, Marie, Jillian, Tai-Shrae the work that you do. It's a lot and very much appreciate it. And Jillian,
thank you for your work on this agency response system.
I know that Director Catlin was disappointed to have to leave but has some thoughts around what we'll
learn from this. I think there's opportunities to gather data about the nature of requests. And I think
there's a lot of things that we can do and move forward in this committee as well as as as a full board
and discuss, throughout the course of other matters, as to how we might want to leverage that system
to perfect our processes even further. So thank you for that and to the Board Office. Director Broom, I
see that your hand is up.
BOB BROOM: A point of personal privilege. Ruthie and I are celebrating our 62nd wedding anniversary
this week. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. Congratulations, Dr. Broom. Congratulations. All right. With that,
that's a happy note to potentially end on, not saying we have to. Are there any other matters to come
before the Executive Committee?
All right. Well, with that being the case, again, a big congratulations to Director Broom. The next
meeting of the Executive Committee is scheduled for Thursday, April 20 at 12:00 PM Mountain
Daylight Time. Our work plan is going to adjust slightly based on the tabling of our discussion around
the station-naming policy. We were slated to act on that. I will work with the Board Office to make the
adjustments necessary, to make sure that we give due time to our property and station-naming policy,
which I'm tremendously grateful to our directors and staff who had worked on that.
Additionally, we'll, of course, have our monthly Government Relations report, which is certain to be
interesting, I think, in April, given that will be towards the end of this legislative session. And there is
still some legislation to come. Seeing no further discussion, we will adjourn this meeting as of 1:57
PM, Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it. I'll be seeing you all
soon. Take care.

