1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, July 1, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present
Bruce Daly
Director, District N
Present
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Present
Claudia Folska
Director, District E
Present
Larry Hoy
Director, District J
Present
Bill James
Committee Chair
Present
Gary Lasater
Director, District G
Present
Judy Lubow
Director, District I
Present
Natalie Menten
Committee Vice-Chair
Present
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Director, District C
Present
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Absent
Present

Arrived
6:00 PM
6:01 PM
6:05 PM
6:02 PM
6:01 PM
6:02 PM
6:01 PM
6:03 PM
6:03 PM
6:00 PM
6:02 PM
6:01 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Present

6:01 PM

Chair Sisk and Director Tobiassen were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Cory
Granrud, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Zamy
Silva, Bill Sirois, Greg Smith, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Michael
Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Ron Boshman, Eugene Howard, Ryan Murphy, Jacob Rogers, Larry
Tenenholz, Monte Whaley, Greg Yates

B. Recommended Actions

• RTP/Senate Bill 208 State Highway 119
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution, which will
permit staff to submit to DRCOG an SB 208 Report in early 2015 which
specifies the technology and the method of financing for the SH 119 Bus
Rapid Transit (BRT) project.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 15, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
reminded the Board that this item had been reviewed at last
month’s Planning and Development Committee Meeting. He
noted that this action relates to advancing State Highway
119’s arterial bus rapid transit (BRT) project. Bill Van Meter
reiterated that this is supporting the highest consensus priority
from the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) for BRT. He
informed the Board that earlier in the year Boulder County,
using the NAMS results, submitted this to DRCOG for
inclusion in the 2040 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP);
DRCOG’s RTP scoring criteria indicate that this project is
eligible for inclusion in the fiscally-constrained RTP and would
be eligible for future federal funding participation through the
DRCOG Transpiration Improvement Program (TIP).

Bill Van Meter said that as outlined in the Board Report, the
cost of the SH 119 BRT is estimated to be approximately $57
million in 2013 dollars and $75 million in Year of Expenditure
(YOE) dollars. The expectation is that the funding breakdown
for BRT in the corridor would be as follows:
 50 percent from RTD Base System Funds; and
 50 percent from DRCOG TIP funds through the
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement
(CMAQ) funds and/or Surface Transportation Program
(STP)-Metro funds.
Bill Van Meter shared that staff projects that SH 119 BRT can
be funded in the early 2020s; however, staff intends to pursue
opportunities to accelerate project planning, environmental and
design work, and to explore financing options to accelerate the
project completion date.
Bill Van Meter pointed out that in speaking with DRCOG staff
there is a clarification that needs to be made in the language
of the Board Report. There is a sentence that reads:
“Discussions with DRCOG staff have indicated that RTD
should submit the SB 208 report in early 2015.” He clarified
that DRCOG staff is not trying to dictate when RTD submits
the report so the wording should have been “could” not
“should”.
Director Folska noted that while this action is based on the
findings of the NAM Study the Board has yet to receive a copy
of the final study report. She stressed that she is deeply
troubled that the Board has not gotten a copy of a report that
RTD paid $2.1 million for. She believes that the cost of $57
million in 2013 dollars versus $75 million in YOE would be in
the report along with the amounts for the other six arterial
BRTs. Director Folska shared that it is really helpful for her to
be able to look at the whole project in its entirety rather than
in drips and drabs. Director Folska said that she could not
support the approval of the NAMS consensus statement
previously and she would not be able to support this action
either. She reiterated that she could not support something
that she has not been able to read. Bill Van Meter stated that
Director Folska was correct that the Board has not received
the final report; however, he said that staff was still working
to finalize the report. He explained that staff was waiting for
Board approval to finalize the priorities before the report would

be complete. Director Folska stated that the consensus
statement could be an addendum to the final report. She
reiterated how unacceptable it is that the Board does not yet
have the final report when the NAMS began in April of 2013.
Director Deadwyler stated that she would be voting no on this
recommendation for many of the reasons stated by Director
Folska. She agrees that the Board needs to see the final
report before moving forward.
Director Hoy asked when the Board was supposed to be
receiving the final NAMS report and when they would actually
be receiving it. Bill Van Meter stated that the final report
would be done in August. He shared that the final report was
always planned to be completed within a couple months of
when the study was complete. The goal was for the study to
be done in Spring of 2014; however, reaching final consensus
did take slightly longer than planned.
Director Hoy wondered if there was a submission deadline for
the SB 208 submission. He wondered if this item was not
moved forward at this time would that delay the process.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, explained that this resolution
does two things:
1) It asks DRCOG to include SH 119 BRT in the RTP. RTD
has applied for a federal grant that we might not be
eligible for if this is not in DRCOG’s RTP.
2) Inclusion in the RTP allows staff to submit an SB 208
Report in early 2015
Marla Lien reiterated that the goal is to get SH 119 BRT in the
RTP to allow RTD to receive a planning grant. Bill Van Meter
pointed out that this makes no commitment of RTD dollars;
this is just a mechanism that allows this project to be included
in the RTP so down the road RTD is eligible for a federal grant.
Director Anderson stated that the TIP is a list of projects; staff
is asking the Board to approve getting SH 119 BRT on that list
for the RTP so that it can be included in DRCOG’s 2040
Transportation Plan. She reiterated that this is just complying
with the DRCOG process so that RTD can be eligible for
federal funds if the Board decides to move this forward with
this project in the future. Bill Van Meter said that was a very
accurate assessment.

Director Lubow shared that she will be voting for this
resolution because she does not want to see anything the
Board does inadvertently interfere with BRT on 119, which
everyone believes is good for the people of the corridor. She
thanked Director Anderson for her very helpful explanation.
She wonders if the Board waited two months before approving
this resolution, so the final report could be available, would
have a negative impact on getting funding for SH 119. Bill
Van Meter explained that during July, DRCOG will be working
through their approval process of the list for the RTP so
waiting is not a good option. He commented that staff does
have a lot of documents that formulate the basis of the entire
report that were shared with the NAMS Technical and Policy
Advisory Committees (TAC and PAC). Bill Van Meter offered
to compile this information for the Board so that it may be
reviewed before the July 15, 2014 Board meeting; however,
he pointed out that all the substantive information reviewed by
the TAC and PAC has also been shared with the Board
throughout the process.
Committee Chair James thought Bill Van Meter’s suggestion
would be an appropriate foundation for this resolution.
Director Lubow also thought this might be an acceptable
solution for some of the other Directors that are distressed
about not having the final report.
Director Bagley believes that one of the most important things
to remember is that, as Bill Van Meter said, staff has been
sharing this information with the Board all along; the final
report will not be vastly different from what the Board has
already seen. He wondered if SH 119 BRT would be
considered a fixed guideway corridor. Director Bagley noted
that if this is considered a fixed guideway it will require 10
‘yes’ votes to be passed.
Director Folska requested that Jacob Rigger, DRCOG
Transportation Planning Coordinator, answer several
questions. She said her sense is that staff and DRCOG believe
RTD should get in the queue to be eligible for funding and if
we do not end up needing it then RTD will not ask for it; she
wondered if that was a correct assessment of DRCOG’s
position. She also wondered why DRCOG wanted the
language change from “should” to “could” as outlined by Bill
Van Meter. Jacob Rigger stated that DRCOG has been in
ongoing discussion with RTD staff about an SB 208 submittal

versus the 2040 Transportation Plan, specifically does SH 119
BRT need to go before the DRCOG Board before it can be in
the 2040 Plan. He said at this point his team believes that will
not be a requirement; this gives RTD and DRCOG more time to
complete the SB 208 process later.
Director Folska stated that she believes the RTD Board could
wait to get the final report, read it, approve it and then submit
the project for the RTP. Jacob Rigger said that DRCOG
believes RTD has some flexibility on the SB 208 process;
however, he indicated that DRCOG would ask that RTD not
wait on is indicating if RTD would like this project included in
the RTP. DRCOG needs to continue to move forward in their
process to they would like some indication from RTD as to
where we stand.
Director Folska asked if an amendment could be made to the
resolution. Committee Chair James indicated that would be
more appropriate at the Board meeting.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 4 WITH 1 AWAY]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk, Tom Tobiassen
AWAY:
Paul Solano
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• 16th Street Mall Update
Stan Szabelak, Engineering Project Manager, reviewed a Power Point with
the Board that is available in the July 1, 2014 Planning and Development
Committee Meeting Agenda Packet.
Committee Chair James thanked Stan Szabelak for a great presentation on
one of our major assets in Denver. He noted that the 16 th Street Mall is one
of the most visited attractions by people from out of town. It is also the
gateway to Downtown and Civic Center from Denver Union Station.
Director Folska shared that she thinks it is wonderful that all the work for
the Mall is being done in a collaborative effort. She believes that the Mall is
truly a treasure. She asked what the cost is per block for renovations.

Director Folska also wondered if perhaps concrete, that can be made to look
like granite, might be more durable and cost effective. Stan Szabelak
shared that when the Urban Design Study was completed in 2008, the
estimated cost to reconstruct the entire Mall was $65 million. Committee
Chair James informed the Board that there was a committee that he cochaired, the 16th Street Steering Committee, that went through a process to
determine that granite pavers were wanted on the mall. He said it was very
clear from the stakeholders that the granite pavers should remain.
Director Daly wondered if the moratorium of construction on the Mall after
Thanksgiving was because of all the festivities. He also asked if there was
any discussion of extending the granite pavers past Market Street. Rick
Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Program, stated that was
correct in regard for the construction moratorium. Stan Szabelak noted that
there had been discussion of extending the granite pavers past Market Street
but when RTD said that we would not maintain those pavers the discussion
went away.
Director Walker wondered what would happen to the two driveways that go
into the former Market Street Station Bus Concourse. Stan Szabelak stated
that the driveway adjacent to Blake Street will remain open for use if the
facility is turned into underground parking as planned. The other driveway
will be blocked by walkways, curbs, etc.
Director Menten wondered if the signs shown for the new Market Street
Mall Shuttle locations have already been ordered. She noted how confusing
they might be as there was no reference to the W-Line. Stan Szabelak said
that the signs had not been ordered but she brought up some very good
details that would be taken into consideration as the signs are finalized.
Director Hoy asked for confirmation that RTD’s only responsibility for
maintenance was the driving surface. Stan Szabelak said that was correct
that RTD’s agreement for maintenance is just for the transit lanes. He noted
that the 16th Street Mall reconstruction will include things like furnishings,
landscaping, etc. due to the nature of the FTA Grant that was requested but
RTD will not be responsible for maintaining these things.
Director Hoy wondered if the funding for the realignment at Market Street
Station was coming from RTD funding and if so, was it out of Base Funding
or FasTracks Funding. Rick Clarke said that staff would have to get back to
the Board with the information.
Director Rivera-Malpiede wondered who was responsible for snow removal
at the 16th Street Mall Shuttle stops. She noted how slippery the granite
can be when wet and snowy. Stan Szabelak said the responsibility of snow

removal for the entire mall is the responsibility of the Downtown Denver
Partnership. Committee Chair James noted that one of the considerations in
keeping the granite pavers was that they are slippery, but in spite of that the
decision was made to keep the pavers.
Director Folska noted that safety along the mall is a big concern. She
believes they are roughing up the granite pavers to they are more like
concrete and not as slippery. Stan Szabelak commented that using pellets
and high pressure water does realize the granite to help keep its surface
from being as slippery; however, it does not take long for dirt and soot to
build up on the pavers so ongoing maintenance is very important.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 5, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:07 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

