Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 18, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Laurie Masten – Sales and Information Specialist – 20 years
Medardo Miera – Parts Clerk – 25 years
Special Recognition
American Red Cross

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of January 21, 2014

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Member Appointment

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint one member to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) to fill a vacancy on the Committee.
B.
Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver (CCD) for a share of the 16th Street Maintenance (Blocks 1-13)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (CCD) for the
shared maintenance cost of the 13 block portion of the 16 th Street Mall between
Broadway and Market Street. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to share the cost
of maintaining the granite pavers, curbs and transition stones within the transitway.
C.

May 2014 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2014 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately $1,440,000 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.
Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver (CCD) for the Free MetroRide
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver
(CCD), for the maintenance of roadway and street furniture improvements constructed for
the operation of the Free MetroRide, formerly known as the Downtown Denver Circulator
(Circulator).
E.

Contract Award for the District Shops HRU Project.

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to the low,
responsive, responsible bidder, JCOR, in the not-to-exceed amount of $2,669,400 for the
District Shops Heat Recovery Unit (HRU) project. In addition, a transfer shall be made from
the State of Good Repair federal grant to the project budget in the amount of $322,103.
F.

Transfer of Funds from Light Rail Capital to Light Rail Expense

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve the transfer of
$703,000 in approved 2014 capital to an expense line to facilitate the development of
revised Light Rail Vehicle specifications.
G.

Access-a-Ride Budget Transfer

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $5,271,915 to re-allocate
previously approved Access-a-Ride 2014 funding from budget accounts associated with
the expired Access-a-Ride service provider contracts to budget accounts associated with
the new Access-a-Ride service provider contracts.
H.

Access-a-Cab Program

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to extend Agreements with Metro Taxi, Yellow Cab, and Union Taxi Inc., to
provide Access-a-Cab services. In addition, as long as the program remains successful and
beneficial to RTD, the General Manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized to negotiate
and enter into agreements with each participating cab company for three (3) years with
two 1-year options.
I.

RTD Funding of DUSPA Project

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to contribute the 2012 $3.3 million working
capital advance to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) towards
completion of the Denver Union Station project and relieve the related receivable as of
December 31, 2013.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

