1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 18, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Sisk asked everyone to stand for the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Title
Director, District L
Director, District H

Status
Present
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM
5:27 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:35 PM
5:30 PM
5:28 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:31 PM
5:40 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:27 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:28 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:28 PM

Paula Perdue performed roll call. There were 14 Board members signed in at roll call.
Director Menten arrived after roll call.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Jeff Cluphf, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Janet Huhn, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Robin McIntosh
Jr., Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard Rost, Robert Rynerson, Brad
Sneddon, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Jack Tommins, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner,
Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Louis Apolinar, Saadia Bekar, Erin Bennett, Josh Benninghoff, Patricia
Billinger, Roshan Bliss, LaTerrell Bradford, Leticia Bradford, Mary
Brewerton, Norma Brombila, Bobbie Chambers, William Cisney, David
DeLay, Leah Dowodzenka, Veronica Dufner, Josie Facio, Davian
Gagne, Sue Gilmar, Estela Gomez, Maggie Gomez, Julie Gonzales,
Doug Gragg, Gino Greco, Kaitlyn Griffith, Anne Hayes, Fred Henrich,
Gabriella Hernandez, Evan Herzoff, Terese Howard, Christine
Jarlstrom, Daniel Jimenez, Rosa Juarez, Igor Kagan, Rita Kahn,
Bridget Kaminetsky, Kevin Kelly, Patrick Kelsalo, Scott Kerr, Terry
Kraser, Kira Lapin, Coby Lasater, Ana Claudia Magalhaes, Ricky
Martinez, Skye Martinez, Matthew McAuliffe, Melissa McCollister,
Nancy McGuire, Linda Meric, Lucy A. Miera, Medardo Miera, Magaly
Moreno, Michael Neil, Jackie Parkins, Bianca Penaylillo, Carlos Perez,
Michael Persichitte, Nancy Peters, Darla Rook, Oscar Santillano,
Bryan Stelmack, Vivian Stovall, Chris Taylor, Joe Thomas, John
Thomas, Jim Toweill, Joe Triplett, Unknown Attendee, Gary Van
Dorn, Monte Whaley, Zoe Williams, Brian Winter

Retiree Awards
Bruce Abel, AGM Bus Operations, acknowledged Medardo “Chris” Miera, parts clerk, who
had worked for 25 years at RTD. Chris’s manager, Jack Tommins from the Platte Division
spoke about how he and Chris had served in the army and were instrumental for a number
of years in a clothing drive at RTD for homeless veterans. Jack stated that Chris was a
wonderful employee with a “can do attitude.” He served the district well.
Chris responded by thanking his bosses and Jack and everyone he has worked with over
the years. RTD was a good ride but it comes a time to say goodbye.
Scott Reed, AGM Communications, indicated that Laurie Masten, who was retiring with
20 years, was not present. However, we wish her well and much happiness.
Chair Sisk expressed Board appreciation to the retirees and thanked them for their service
to this country and RTD.

Special Recognition
Dave Genova made a special recognition of Gino Greco, Regional CEO, with the American
Red Cross. Dave spoke to the partnership between RTD and the Red Cross and shared
RTD is the recipient of 30 AEDs (defibrillators) in 17 locations and we have over 200
employees trained in CPR and how to use. He presented Mr. Greco with an award from
RTD for this special partnership.

V.

Public Participation











Speaker “X” who wanted to remain anonymous and stated she represented Lisa
Fellows, indicated they wanted to meet with RTD on a number of issues.
Kira Lapin indicated that she had moved from Chicago where they had a system
that senior citizens ride for free. She thinks RTD ought to look into this system.
Scott Kerr, Bayaud Enterprises, stated that he is a neighbor to the “W” line. He
indicated that his organization works with the low income and they had participated
in an effort a couple of years ago to look for better transportation options. Nothing
came from that effort. Low income need more access to light rail but cannot afford
to ride the train. RTD is making the assumption that all low income people have
access to the organizations that participate in our discount program. For some of
these people, they are on a waiting list just to get in the door to seek assistance.
We need to expand our program to include those who have fallen through the
cracks or on a wait list to see a non-profit worker.
Doug Gragg stated that RTD need to look for ways to bring the cost of ridership
down for the disadvantaged or low income residents.
LaTerrell Bradford was speaking on behalf of the low income people who were
members of the 9to5. She indicated it is a hardship for them to purchase a pass.
She encouraged RTD to work with 9to5 to create an income based bus pass
program.
Ana Claudia Magalhaes, Denver, shared that she was a college student and had
access to a pass that is good through May 17. However, she will graduate and will
no longer have access to this pass. She is concerned she will not be able to ride
the bus. It will be difficult for her to pay off her student loans, start a new career
and pay her other bills while trying to afford the high cost of public transportation.
She would like RTD to come up with options for people like her who will not be
able to afford this cost.
Norma Brombila who spoke via an interpreter, stated that she is the mother of five
children, 2 of which are in high school and another one soon to be. She has to buy
all of them a bus pass and even with the school discount, this is not enough. Her
husband is also a transit rider who has to pay for a pass. This is an extreme
hardship for her and takes money away from the rest of her family or paying other











VI.

obligations. She would like RTD to take into consideration an income based
program for low income.
Leticia Bradford expressed that she loves RTD and the beautiful corridors that have
been created. However, she works at Walmart and makes less per hour than the
cost to travel to get to work. She would love to see transit better subsidized for
low income people.
Evan Herzoff from Lakewood stated he has been riding RTD for most of his life. He
left the workforce in 2011 and is now attempting to re-enter the workforce. He
gets a small subsidy each month that he has to make that stretch. It is not only
the cost of the fare but the fact that RTD has been cutting routes making it very
difficult to get around in a reasonable amount of time to apply for jobs. He believes
we need to consider a master EcoPass program based around income levels.
Igor Kagan representing Bend me Arc, a Jewish outreach organization, stated that
they support an income based transit program. Igor quoted a Jewish belief from
the Book of Deuteronomy relative to our personal responsibility to help others. He
believes RTD should meet with the 9to5 organization about transit options.
Dave DeLay stated that he provide rehabilitative support for Bayaud Enterprises.
They are a participant in the discount program and work with low income trying to
find a job or struggling to emerge from homeliness. However, even though they
spend about $45K each year on transit passes, this is just the skim of the iceberg
on the actual need that exists. There is still a large percentage of the population
who are not being served. In the 2-tier program that we have, that second tier has
limitations around how much discount or quantity they can purchase. RTD needs
to be willing to engage in a conversation for expanded options.
Zoe Williams, 9to5 representative, read a statement from James Leal, president of
the resident leadership council at Westridge Homes that represents approximately
600 homes in subsidized housing. James was unable to attend but shared the
need for affordable transportation. Zoe Williams also asked that RTD create a
special task force that can help shape a policy that will allow RTD to be a great
connector of people so they may get where they need to go.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy

Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

Director Anderson provided typographical changes to a couple of committee reports
which have been corrected.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Chair Bagley did not have any
updates. Work efforts by the committee will resume in March or April.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of January 21, 2014
Motion:

Director Lasater made the motion to approve the
minutes from the Board meeting of January 21, 2014.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with fifteen (15) in favor and 0
opposed.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report








Chair Sisk shared that the Buechner Breakfast First Friday held on February 7
focused on Colorado’s transportation future and included a panel discussion with
Honorable Mayor Gunning of Lone Tree, Maria Garcia Berry with CRL and Rick
Clarke, AGM of Capital Programs/FasTracks. Board members who attended include
Directors Folska, Rivera-Malpiede and Tobiassen.
Director Hoy hosted a tour of Denver Union Station with the North Metro Mayors
on February 14. The Mayors were quite surprised but pleased about the progress
made at DUS as well as the surrounding development.
Some of the Board members attended the public hearing by CDOT on the planned
US 36 PPP agreement. These have been highly spirited discussions. Directors
Hoy, Lubow, Solano and Sisk attended at least one of these meetings.
Chair Sisk attended a Colorado Care session where General Manager Washington
spoke on the confluence of transportation, education and health for the
underserved.







X.

General Manager Washington as well as Directors Rivera-Malpiede and Tobiassen
attended the Colorado Black Roundtable in Five Points on February 15. Members of
the Civil Rights team were there to discuss RTD programs and WIN opportunities.
Chair Sisk noted that all of the Board members are involved in various activities and
meetings in their respective districts and throughout the city. Board members give
of their personal time to communicate their commitment to public transportation
and the community.
Chair Sisk reminded the Board members of the joint Board-staff strategic Planning
Advance on March 1 and the upcoming APTA Legislative conference March 9-11.
He also reminded the Board members of the North Metro groundbreaking on March
20.

General Manager's Report










General Manager Washington shared that he participated in a Smart Growth
National Conference in Denver. There were about 1500 professionals from the
fields of education, transportation and housing. He did two sessions, one which
was referenced by Chair Sisk and the other around FasTracks.
On Friday, 2/14, he received short notice to provide a tour for Senator Bennet of
Denver Union Station (DUS). He was able to get the CEO of Sage Hospitality,
Walter Isenberg, to join them on this tour. Senator Bennet was pleasantly surprised
about the progress at DUS, including the hotel provisions and the development
around the station. Although Senator Bennet was instrumental upfront with the
project, he had not had a recent tour to see what great efforts and phenomenal
success have occurred.
General Manager Washington thanked Directors Rivera-Malpiede and Tobiassen for
their attendance at the Colorado Black Roundtable. They spoke to a packed room
and talked about opportunities for small businesses.
He has been asked to testify before the US House of Representatives-House
Transportation & Infrastructure Committee P3 Panel. He will share the RTD
experience with P3-the Eagle project.
Other matters:
o General Manager Washington shared information of the untimely death of
Robert Parmley, an RTD employee from East Metro, and expressed
condolences to the family.
o General Manager Washington announced that the National Publication of PR
Daily has recognized the RTD Social Media PR for West Corridor. This was
an open competition which makes this award very special.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items A through C.

Director Daly seconded the motion.
Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed fourteen (14) in favor and 0 against.
Director Deadwyler had stepped away and registered as
a no-vote.

RESULT:
PASSED [14 TO 0]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
A.

Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Member Appointment

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint one member to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) to fill a vacancy on the Committee.
B.
Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver (CCD) for a share of the 16th Street Maintenance (Blocks 1-13)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (CCD) for the
shared maintenance cost of the 13 block portion of the 16 th Street Mall between
Broadway and Market Street. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to share the cost
of maintaining the granite pavers, curbs and transition stones within the transitway.
C.

May 2014 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2014 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately $1,440,000 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.
Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver (CCD) for the Free MetroRide
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver
(CCD), for the maintenance of roadway and street furniture improvements constructed for
the operation of the Free MetroRide, formerly known as the Downtown Denver Circulator
(Circulator).
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve
the authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) with the City and County of Denver for the Free
MetroRide.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed thirteen in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen and Walker) and one
(1) against (Menten). Director Deadwyler had stepped
out of the room.

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
E.

Contract Award for the District Shops HRU Project.

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to the low,
responsive, responsible bidder, JCOR, in the not-to-exceed amount of $2,669,400 for the

District Shops Heat Recovery Unit (HRU) project. In addition, a transfer shall be made from
the State of Good Repair federal grant to the project budget in the amount of $322,103.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to approve the
contract award for the District Shops HRU Project.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Menten indicated she will be opposing this
motion based on her concerns around spending at the
national level (some of the monies to pay for this
comes from a federal grant).
The motion passed thirteen (13) in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, and Walker)
and one (1) against (Menten). Director Deadwyler was
out of the room.

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
F.

Transfer of Funds from Light Rail Capital to Light Rail Expense

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve the transfer of
$703,000 in approved 2014 capital to an expense line to facilitate the development of
revised Light Rail Vehicle specifications.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the
transfer of funds from light rail capital to light rail
expense.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Lasater shared that he had spoken with Austin
Jenkins, AGM of Rail Operations. He understood this
was a not-to-exceed amount but he would like to see
more definitive estimate, not just a wide magnitude of
order. He will be voting against this item.
The motion passed with fourteen (14) in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy,
James, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, and Walker and one (1) against (Lasater).

RESULT:
PASSED [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
G.

Access-a-Ride Budget Transfer

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $5,271,915 to re-allocate
previously approved Access-a-Ride 2014 funding from budget accounts associated with
the expired Access-a-Ride service provider contracts to budget accounts associated with
the new Access-a-Ride service provider contracts.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the
Access-a-Ride budget transfer.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with fourteen (14) in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen and Walker
and one (1) against (Daly).

RESULT:
PASSED [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Bruce Daly
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
H.

Access-a-Cab Program

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to extend Agreements with Metro Taxi, Yellow Cab, and Union Taxi Inc., to
provide Access-a-Cab services. In addition, as long as the program remains successful and
beneficial to RTD, the General Manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized to negotiate
and enter into agreements with each participating cab company for three (3) years with
two 1-year options.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve Access-a-cab
program.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Anderson passed out a copy and made the following
comments:” I will be voting against the amended motion
because I believe that it takes flexibility from staff to work
with cab companies that are seeking ways to provide a safe,
cheaper, more efficient way to provide services to those in our
community that need individual transportation options, but not
necessarily the traditional way of providing service through
Access A Ride in larger busses.
The federal mandate to provide these services does not
preclude RTD from working with a mix of providers that can
use newer types of vehicles that meet the variety of needs of
our populations that require specialized services. The original
motion provided staff with flexibility to work with differing
providers to use innovative ways to provide this service. It
does not preclude other providers from stepping forward with
a better way of delivering this service. I believe the original

motion allows a way to better serve those who need special
care.
I have been lobbied by several people with ideas on how to
better serve the ADA community. I have also been lobbied by
the ADA community itself. Both sides are looking for better
and more efficient ways to provide and use this service. The
RTD Board of Directors has recognized this issue in the past
and I believe that the staff request in the original motion
allows for that flexibility.
The amended motion actually interjects a type of inflexibility
that will not allow staff to continue to explore ways to provide
more efficient, safe, and easy to use service for our most
vulnerable users. It locks RTD into a three year agreement
with two 1 year options. I hardly think that that will give the
staff enough flexibility in exploring ways to provide our highest
subsidized service in a manner that is less costly and in a way
that might provide a more pleasant ride.
I see this as a way to provide a pseudo contract that locks
RTD into three particular cab companies for three years. It
does not protect the ADA community.
The Board of Directors can monitor this process and protect our
ADA constituents without killing flexibility and innovation in
exploring differing ways to provide a much needed service. “
Director Deadwyler commented that she will be voting on this
amended recommended action. She feels we do need
something in place to monitor for our most vulnerable. She
does not have faith that staff will act if left alone. The Board
has the responsibility to monitor before an agreement is made.
She wants to remind the Board that taxi cab drivers are
independent agents. That means they have the right to refuse
service any time they want. They are not under any
obligations to perform.
Director Folska stated she agrees with the comments about
the need to be innovate but RTD has standard operating
procedures (SOP) to monitor contractors. She also wants to

assure the ADA community reliability, consistency and
oversight. She does not see evidence that changing the
language to put defined times in it would negatively affect our
ADA support.
Director Bagley commented that he agrees with much of what
Director Anderson read. We have a cogent and rational set of
ADA communities that staff works tirelessly to monitor. He
thinks staff has the knowledge and experience to monitor
these issues and he will vote no on the motion.
Director Menten asked a number of questions around how can
she get a better understanding of the criteria of who is
supposed to use access-a Cab. Bruce Abel, AGM, explained
that people get qualified for the access-a Ride program based
around a number of criteria. Once qualified for access-a-Ride,
they are qualified for access-a-Cab. We have a 3 step
certification program that they will be happy to show to
Director Menten at any time.
Director Anderson stated that her primary concern was
extending the 3 years with 2-1 year options. She thinks this
ties the hands of staff.
Director Folska noted we already have two directors who have
first-hand experience with the access-a-Ride program and
using access-a-Cab. In her opinion, they would be the best to
update Director Menten. She also noted that Global
Transportation was one provider who went out of business.
She believes that the system “regulates” itself and flexibility
exists for exits and entries into this space.
Director Hoy inquired about the pricing structure for riding; it
was his understanding that RTD pays the cab companies $12
and these companies do not lower their rates. AGM Abel
confirmed Director Hoy’s understanding that the customer
pays for the first $2.00. RTD subsidizes the next $12.
Anything over $14 is paid by the customer. Director Hoy
inquired about the contract term today. AGM Abel responded
that today it is a 1 year contract. Director Hoy inquired of legal
if this will turn this into a 3 year contract. Marla Lien, Legal

Counsel, said that was correct. The contract would be for
three years with 2-1 year extension options but would be
terminable earlier.
Director James stated he believes if it is not broken, don’t fix
it. He will vote against.
Director Menten reflected on another discussion on shared taxi
service and asked if this will preclude the Uber model from
happening here. AGM Abel responded that from a staff
perspective, they do not have an issue.
Director Lubow expressed that her personal preference would
be to do these contracts annually but in the face of the action
item, she will support this motion.
Director Walker commented that this motion really does not
save the Board time which he believes was the intent from
staff, so he does not plan to support this motion.
Director Sisk called for the question.
Motion:

Vote on the
Motion:

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to extend Agreements with Metro Taxi, Yellow Cab, and Union
Taxi Inc., to provide Access-a-Cab services. In addition, as
long as the program remains successful and beneficial to RTD,
the General Manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized to
negotiate and enter into agreements with each participating
cab company for three (3) years with two 1-year options

The motion failed with seven (7) members in favor
(Deadwyler, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano and
Tobiassen) and eight (8) opposed (Anderson, Bagley, Daly,
Hoy, James, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede and Walker).

RESTULT:
FAILED [7 TO 8]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Deadwyler, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen
NAYS: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Walker
Chair Sisk declared the motion FAILED.
Substitute Motion
From the Floor:

Director Anderson made the motion to reconsider the original
motion as stated “It is recommended by the Operations and
Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to extend Agreements with Metro Taxi,
Yellow Cab, and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Access-a-Cab
services. In addition, as long as the program remains
successful and beneficial to RTD, the General Manager, or his
designee, is hereby authorized to negotiate and enter into
agreements with each participating cab company in
subsequent years, hereafter.”
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow stated she was unhappy with the original
motion. She wanted to make an amendment to the original
motion to add 1 year terms. Some discussions pursued about
what Director Lubow was trying to do. Legal Counsel Lien
stated she could not make this motion at this time.
General Manager Washington made a statement that staff
normally brings this back to the Board anyway on a quarterly
basis. They will have a chance to see how the access-a-Cab
and access-a-Ride programs are performing.

Vote on the
Substitute Motion
From the floor:

The motion passed eight (8) in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly,
Hoy, James, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk and Walker) and seven (7)
against (Deadwyler, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Solano
and Tobiassen).

RESULT:
PASSED [8 TO 7]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Walker
NAYS: Deadwyler, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Solano, Tobiassen
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
I.

RTD Funding of DUSPA Project

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to contribute the 2012 $3.3 million working
capital advance to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) towards
completion of the Denver Union Station project and relieve the related receivable as of
December 31, 2013.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the RTD
funding of DUSPA Project.
Director James seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow asked for a clarification of the action.
Are we saying that a loan was made to DUSPA that we
now want to forgive? CFO Howerter provided an
explanation that this money was initially advanced to
DUSPA; they have performed a number of
improvements but do not have assets so we need to
take the receivables of the books. We have already
written these off.
Director Folska asked about the structure of DUSPA.
Who are the representing RTD members and others on
the Board? Director Bagley explained that he was the
voting member and Director James was the alternate.
Other entities represented on the DUSPA Board were
from the City and County of Denver, CDOT, DRCOG,
etc. Director Folska inquired if Director Bagley has
voting responsibility on the DUSPA Board for financing
issues. Director Bagley responded that he does vote on
financing issues.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with thirteen (13) members in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Ho, James,
Lasater, Rivera-Malpiede, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen and Walker) and one (1) opposed (Folska).
Director Menten had stepped out of the room.

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Bill James, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Claudia Folska
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Old Business
There was no old business.

XIV. New Business







Director Lasater introduced his son Coby who is working on a class assignment for
school. Coby will be attending CSU.
Director Lubow commented about the 9to5 comments during public participation.
She thinks they made a passionate and compelling argument and we need to work
with them for other options. We need to look to see if a greater range of low
income people can be added. Scott Reed, AGM Communications, indicated that
he, Mike Turner, Mike Washington and others had met with the 9to5 earlier. RTD
has expressed concern that there was no mention of the existing RTD low income
discount program which 9to5 had previously participated in. They understand their
positions and will keep the dialogue open.
Director James indicated there was a disconnect with the people who had spoken
earlier. He wondered procedurally if we could have attempted to clarify while they
were still here.
Director Deadwyler indicated she was re-reading the letter from RTD to Zoe
Williams. It looks to her that we need to review what we actually said. She noted
that many of the people who spoke do not have access to the organizations in our
discount program and we need to consider how we can reach these people. Scott




XV.

Reed responded 9to5 used to participate in our discount program but they do not
anymore.
Director Menten asked what the official protocol to respond to public comments is.
Chair Sisk indicated that we offer up three minutes for anyone to provide his/her
comments. We do not have a structure for response or making this a
conversational piece. If we did this, the day would turn into night. It is our
protocol not to engage with the public speakers but to listen to their comments.
The Chair may instruct staff to follow up on specific request but our protocol during
public hearing/participation is not to engage.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 7:18 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

