Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, October 21, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
11:30 AM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 845 5663 9046#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede
I.

Call to Order

II.

October Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - October 26, 2021
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Land Acknowledgement

IV.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

V.

Retiree Awards
Special Recognition – RTD Snowplow Roadeo
Single-Axle Snowplow Truck Winners
1st Place – Dave Johnson and John Prather
2nd Place – Andrew Kamees and August Trujillo
3rd Place – Shane Reposa and Dave Waite
Tandem-Axle Snowplow Truck Winners
1st Place – Leo Dowd and Martha Guzman
2nd Place – Daniel Guerrero and Chip Seedroff
3rd Place – Nate Barela and John Oldham
2021 National Snowplow Roadeo
Single-Axle Snowplow Truck Winners
1st Place – Dave Johnson and John Prather
Tandem-Axle Snowplow Truck Winners
3rd Place – Dave Johnson and John Prather

VI.

Public Participation

VII.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Civil Rights Committee
Operations & Customer Services Committee
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
GM Oversight & Performance Management

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting and Special Board Meeting Minutes of August 24, 2021

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent

A.

2022 Legislative Program

For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 Legislative Program.
B.

Longmont Transit Facility

For the Board of Directors to grant the General Manager and CEO or her designee
the authority to negotiate and execute all documents and funding transfers
necessary for the design, construction, and maintenance of a new bus transfer
facility and Park-n-Ride (Transit Facility) near the future terminus of the B Line in
the City of Longmont (City).
C.

Contract Awards for Architectural and Engineering Services

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to negotiate
and execute all necessary documents to award separate contracts to Short Elliott
Hendrickson, Inc. and HDR Engineering, Inc. for architectural and engineering
services for a total value not to exceed $5 million for a duration of three years, with
two one-year options to be exercised at the agency’s sole discretion.
D.

Strategic Plan Survey Data Validation

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to utilize the
agency’s contracted external audit firm, Plante Moran, to authenticate the
Customer Excellence and Community Value survey data compiled by TransPro
Consulting through its contracted team of surveyors.
E.

January 2022 Proposed Service Changes

For the Board of Directors to approve the January 2022 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A and to authorize the General Manager and
CEO or her designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
F.

Board Committee Structure

For the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to its committee structure in order to
optimize the number of members assigned to each committee; encourage full and
fruitful debate by decentralizing decision-making; leverage members’ relevant
experience; and promote meeting efficiencies; in accordance with the following
discussion.
G.

2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan

For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022-2027 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP).
XIII.

Recommended Action

XIV.

Executive Session
None

XV.

Old Business

XVI.

New Business

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

2022 Legislative Program

Board Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021
RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 Legislative Program.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) does not currently have a Legislative Program. As part of the
2021-2026 Strategic Plan, staff is initiating a process to develop and implement an annual Legislative
Program. It is common practice for public transportation agencies to develop a Legislative Program that
is adopted by its board of directors annually and that serves as a guiding document for staff to pursue
goals related to legislative and policy matters. Additionally, a Legislative Program serves as a living
document that can be adjusted throughout a legislative session to provide an avenue for Board adopted
policy positions to be communicated and pursued by agency staff.
DISCUSSION
In line with the agency’s mission and vision established in the Strategic Plan, the development and
inclusion of the goals and actions contained in the Legislative Program are designed to make lives better
through connections. It is important that RTD serve as a trusted partner to the region’s local, state, and
federal elected officials. To achieve these goals, RTD must be proactive in educating and informing the
District’s elected officials of the challenges and opportunities available to advance shared goals. Equally
important is building trust through partnership that fits within the framework of RTD’s financial forecast.
The 2022 Legislative Program, included as an attachment to this Board report, outlines priority actions
on a variety of issues that staff believes are achievable through advocacy and collaboration.
If approved, the 2022 Legislative Program will be implemented beginning January 1, 2022.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Board approval of the 2022 Legislative Program does not have any immediate financial impact.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2022 Legislative Program Final

(PDF)

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 5

2.12.A

Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 6

2.12.A.a

Attachment A

2022 Legislative Program

To establish a set of Board-approved legislative and advocacy policies that benefit the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) and assist in guiding staff’s actions and efforts during the 2022 legislative
session that support the priorities and success outcomes of the agency’s adopted 2021-2026 Strategic
Plan.
STRATEGY
Developing and maintaining relationships with a myriad of stakeholders is central to RTD’s strategic
approach to government relations. Staff will work to communicate, educate, inform and partner with
the agency’s Congressional delegation, the Governor’s Office, the state General Assembly delegation,
and local elected officials to advocate for policies approved by the Board.
Additionally, staff will continue to work with its industry associations – such as the America Public
Transportation Association (APTA), the Colorado Association of Transit Agencies (CASTA), regional
transportation management organizations/associations (TMOs/TMAs), and other stakeholder
organizations – to partner and collaborate on shared goals to advance and seek support for legislative
positions approved by the Board. Lastly, tactics included in the Legislative Program will be guided and
informed by the priorities set forth in the agency’s Board-approved 2021-2026 Strategic Plan –
Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee Ownership, Financial Success.
TACTICAL PLAN
Contained herein are specific priorities and actions that outline areas of focus for the 2022 Legislative
Program. Beyond the actions listed in this program, specific legislative matters are likely to arise that
warrant consideration by the Board of Directors.
To allow staff flexibility for consideration of items to be changed, added, or deleted as a result of
legislation introduced during the legislative session, the recommended change must be presented to the
Board as part of a Board committee agenda. If time does not allow for an item to be agendized for a
committee meeting for discussion by the Board, RTD will remain neutral on the legislation in question.

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 2022 Legislative Program Final (4576 : 2022 Legislative Program)

PURPOSE

2.12.A.a

Attachment A

A. Surface Transportation
Authorization

Engage in national deliberations with partners such as APTA to
advocate for increased federal investment in public
transportation. Ensure that programs created and implemented
by the U.S. Department of Transportation (US DOT) are eligible
for RTD to participate, and that rules and regulations associated
with US DOT’s programs do not negatively impact the agency.

B. Return of RTD’s Credit Risk
Premium for 2010 Railroad
Rehabilitation and
Improvement Financing
(RRIF) loan

Work closely with RTD’s Congressional Delegation to seek
legislative language and the necessary funding appropriation to
facilitate the return of RTD’s Credit Risk Premium paid to the US
DOT to secure the agency’s 2010 RRIF loan.

C. Discretionary Grants

Advocate for federal discretionary grants to support transit
projects and planning throughout the district. Grant programs
include, but are not limited to, Capital Investment Grant Program,
Federal/State Partnership for State of Good Repair, Bus and Bus
Facilities, and Rebuilding American Infrastructure with
Sustainability and Equity Grant program.

State
A. Partnering with the State of Work and communicate actively with members and staff of the
Colorado on oversight
Colorado General Assembly on issues of state oversight including
Office of the State Auditor recommendations and Accountability
Committee recommendations. Ensure members and staff are
informed of RTD’s actions related to oversight and implementation
of recommendations.
B. Protect RTD’s ability to
deliver transit services
within Board-approved
budget

Oppose legislation that would increase operating costs without
providing new sources of revenue.

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 2022 Legislative Program Final (4576 : 2022 Legislative Program)

Federal

2.12.A.a

Attachment A
C. Advocate for
environmental stewardship
through statewide rules
and regulations

Closely monitor, partner and participate in policy rules and
regulations proposed and implemented by the state of Colorado.
Advocate for the positive impact transit can have on air quality
improvement and ensure sources of eligible funding are available
to implement transit mitigation measures that can assist in
greenhouse gas reduction through the region.

A. Denver Regional Council of
Governments Funding

Work and communicate with local jurisdictional partners to
provide information and best practices for implementing funding
eligible for transit operations or capital improvements that assist
RTD in providing optimal transit services.

B. Local official and key
stakeholder engagement

Build and maintain collaborative relationships and engagement
opportunities with local officials and key stakeholders.

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: 2022 Legislative Program Final (4576 : 2022 Legislative Program)

Local

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Longmont Transit Facility

Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to grant the General Manager and CEO or her designee the authority to
negotiate and execute all documents and funding transfers necessary for the design, construction, and
maintenance of a new bus transfer facility and Park-n-Ride (Transit Facility) near the future terminus of
the B Line in the City of Longmont (City).
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Chessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development Manager
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
As part of the State Highway 119 Bus Rapid Transit project, RTD is working to develop redesigned bus
services between Boulder and Longmont (the City). In addition, as a part of the FasTracks Program, RTD
has plans to extend the existing B Line commuter rail into downtown Longmont. RTD and the City have
identified the 1st Avenue and Main Street location as the site of the Transit Facility to support bus and
eventual commuter rail services.
In 2011, the Board of Directors approved the reservation of $17 million in FasTracks funds for the costs
associated with the creation of the Transit Facility and related infrastructure. In June 2012, Longmont
City Council adopted the 1st and Main Transit and Revitalization Plan, which lays out the vision and plan
to implement a new transit station in Longmont, including potential for transit-oriented development
(TOD) opportunities. The City then engaged the services of a consultant to prepare a 1st and Main
Transit Oriented Development Strategies Report that evaluates the potential for TOD in the area,
provides conceptual plans for station design and corresponding preliminary costs, and recommends
alternative public financing strategies to implement the plan. A final version of this report was completed
in August 2017 with regular input from RTD Planning staff.
In a 2017 Memorandum of Understanding, RTD and the City jointly agreed that an infrastructure master
plan (IMP) would meet mutual goals of refining street, parking, and transit improvements and identifying
associated infrastructure costs in order to establish assumptions for completing the Transit Facility and
the related infrastructure (together, the Project). The IMP is substantially complete and is expected to be
finalized shortly. The IMP estimates the total cost of the Project at approximately $30 million, which
includes property acquisition, design, and construction of the Project.

Packet Pg. 10

2.12.B

Among other agreements, the Project will require one or more Intergovernmental Agreements), which are
expected to include the following information:
•
•
•
•
•

A reimbursement or payment process for eligible Project costs
A timeline for Project implementation
A Project design and construction approval process
Allocation of costs between the parties
Other necessary actions or responsibilities of the parties

In addition, RTD and the City will work together to draft an operations and maintenance (O&M)
agreement for the Project. The O&M agreement will detail each party’s responsibility for operating and
maintaining the transit improvements, public spaces, right-of-way, parking, and other improvements.
DISCUSSION
This action would give the General Manager and CEO or her designee the authority to negotiate and
execute all documents and funding transfers necessary for the design, construction, and maintenance of
a new Transit Facility near the future terminus of the B Line in the City.
The execution of any Project agreements would only be authorized if the following conditions are met:
1. The Project must meet RTD engineering requirements for safety, security and transit operations,
as determined by RTD.
2. The Project must include a minimum of 200 parking spaces for RTD users and a minimum of 10
bus gates, or such other number of gates acceptable to RTD.
3. The City will acquire all real property required for the Project.
4. The City is expected to fund acquisition and RTD is expected to fund Project design and
construction. At its sole discretion, RTD may fund a portion of the acquisition.
5. RTD will not allocate any funds to the Project beyond the $17 million reserved by the Board of
Directors in 2011 without further Board approval.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The funding for this Project, which the Board of Directors authorized in 2011, is captured in the FY2021
Amended Budget. As such, no additional funding is needed.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation (PPTX)

•

Letter From Longmont to RTD Sept. 20, 2021

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Chessy Brady, Manager, Transit-Oriented Development
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

2.12.B

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 12

Longmont Transit
Facility

Chessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development Manager
Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

2.12.B.a

Packet Pg. 13

Longmont Station Transit Facility Project
§ 2011: Board committed $17M to construct Park-n-Ride
Downtown
Longmont
119 BRT
Service

Main St

at B Line terminus
§ 2017: MOU between Longmont and RTD committed to
Infrastructure Master Plan (IMP)
§ 2021: IMP identified and priced concepts for
transportation facility and related development
§ Next Steps:
• 2021-2022: Complete agreements with Longmont
• 2022-2023: Refine design, build facility and
infrastructure
• 2025: 119 BRT, other bus services begin operation

1st Ave

(planned)

Transit Facility

2

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

2.12.B.a

IGAs Cover:
Second Ave

§ Implementation timeline
§ Design and construction

S Pratt Parkway

parties

§ Reimbursement or payment
process for eligible costs

§ Operations and Maintenance

Main St

§ Allocation of costs between

Coffman St

approval process

First Ave

§ Other necessary actions or
responsibilities

Boston Ave
St. Vrain Creek
Downtown Longmont Aerial. Source: Google Maps

3

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

2.12.B.a

Deal Points
1. RTD engineering requirements (safety,

security and transit operations)
2. Facility requirements: parking spaces (200)
and bus gates (10)
3. City role: acquire real property, manage
project, etc.
4. RTD role: fund design and construction
5. No allocation of RTD funds beyond $17M in
current budget
“Crops at Sunset” in Longmont, CO by Carol M. Highsmith, courtesy
of Library of Congress

4

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

2.12.B.a

Questions?
Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

2.12.B.a

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Letter From Longmont to RTD Sept. 20, 2021 (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

2.12.B.b

Packet Pg. 18

2.12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Contract Awards for Architectural and Engineering
Services

Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to negotiate and execute all
necessary documents to award separate contracts to Short Elliott Hendrickson, Inc. and HDR
Engineering, Inc. for architectural and engineering services for a total value not to exceed $5 million for a
duration of three years, with two one-year options to be exercised at the agency’s sole discretion.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry J. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Mechanical, electrical, architectural, structural, roofing, civil, landscaping, design and engineering
services are being procured to supplement internal architectural and engineering capacity. Some
examples of the work that may be awarded under these contracts are roof repairs, fleet electrification
related infrastructure modifications, bus washes, pits, lifts, hoists, crane installations, air conditioning,
and boiler replacements. These projects are included and have been approved in the Mid-Term Financial
Plan.
The Brooks Act (Public Law 92-582) applies to this solicitation and requires that the acquisition of
architectural and engineering services be based on demonstrated competence, capability, and
qualifications at fair and reasonable prices, rather than solely on price competition.
DISCUSSION
A request for proposals was publicly advertised on August 12, 2021. Five proposals were received on
September 16, 2021. The technical evaluation committee met on September 27, 2021 for the purpose
of rating the proposals and determined that two proposers, Short Elliott Hendrickson, Inc. and HDR
Engineering, Inc., were the most qualified consultant teams. Leveraging two contracts will better support
future work needs.
A Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) goal of 20% was set for this contract. Both Short Elliott
Hendrickson, Inc. and HDR Engineering, Inc. have committed to 20% DBE participation.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact will not exceed $5 million.

Prepared by:
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer

Packet Pg. 19

2.12.C

Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 20

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Strategic Plan Survey Data Validation

Committee Meeting Date:
October 7, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
October 19, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to utilize the agency’s contracted
external audit firm, Plante Moran, to authenticate the Customer Excellence and Community Value survey
data compiled by TransPro Consulting through its contracted team of surveyors.
REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
On August 10, 2021, the Board of Directors adopted four strategic priorities in its 2021-2026 Strategic
Plan, namely:
•
•
•
•

Community Value
Customer Excellence
Employee Ownership
Financial Success

The Strategic Plan leverages survey data to gauge key stakeholders’ and customers’ satisfaction with
RTD and the services the agency delivers throughout the region. To establish the baseline and
supplemental data for the Community Value and Customer Excellence strategic priorities, TransPro
Consulting, the consulting firm initially selected through a solicitation process to assist in the creation of
the Strategic Plan, was engaged to conduct surveys in 2021 through the deployment of contracted
professional surveyors.
DISCUSSION
During the June 26, 2021 Board retreat, Directors expressed an interest in engaging a third-party to
validate the survey results as a means of ensuring that the survey data collected by TransPro accurately
reflects the views of RTD’s stakeholders and customers.
In approving this action, the Board acknowledges its intent for Plante Moran to validate the Community
Value and Customer Excellence survey data.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The cost of survey data validation services performed by Plante Moran at its contractually established
rate is not expected to exceed $2,500.

Packet Pg. 21

2.12.D

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 22

2.12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
January 2022 Proposed Service Changes

Committee Meeting Date:
October 19, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
October 19, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to approve the January 2022 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A and to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Jessie Carter, Acting Senior Manager of Service Development
PRESENTATION LENGTH
20 minutes
BACKGROUND
Commensurate with the service change and voting process detailed in the Collective Bargaining
Agreement shared between RTD and the Amalgamated Transit Union 1001, the January 2022 Service
Change Proposal facilitates both an opportunity for bus and rail operators to vote new work assignments
and the opportunity for Service Development Division staff to adjust the operations plan for RTD’s
transit network.
A vital part of the development of the service plan involves stakeholder and customer input processes.
The stakeholder listening phase is in addition to the public listening phase, which concluded August 30,
2021 as a part of the January 2022 service change process. Both stakeholder feedback and customer
input will help inform RTD’s future service plans.
DISCUSSION
Service changes implemented during 2021 were in part directed toward recovery from impacts
experienced due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Current ridership levels have increased modestly, with
ridership cresting 50% of pre-COVID levels. Modest increases in service levels have been implemented
with each service change, and system capacity has been increased with the lifting of restrictions. It
should be noted that current levels of service offered largely exceed current ridership demand.
Additionally, the agency is challenged with attracting and retaining operators, like many public and
private service industries throughout the country. RTD has implemented incentives to aid in recruitment
and retention of front-line employees, with the goal of expanding the agency’s human resources to allow
for an increase in service delivery. At this time operator availability will not support a substantial “return
of service.”

Packet Pg. 23

2.12.E

The proposals herein contain a mix of modest service improvements and adjustments aimed at
maintaining on-time performance and contract compliance. It is intended that the proposed service
changes to the current COVID-19 service plan be adopted as further modification to the initial plan
implemented April 19, 2020 and modified in subsequent service changes in 2021.
The Board-adopted guidance for proposed service changes continues to encompass:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Service performance evaluation based on the Service Standards
The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets
The availability of alternative services to affected customers
Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, in that benefits and services are provided without regard to race,
color or national origin and without disparate effects on low income and minority populations
Responses to changes in the communities where services are provided

Given the current economic conditions due to the COVID-19-induced economic slowdown, the
overarching guidance for the proposed January 2022 service changes come from the Board-adopted
guidance for COVID-19 budget reductions, particularly the Board’s stated desire to maximize mobility
during the pandemic for those customers who most depend upon RTD’s services to access essential jobs
and their necessities, while also keeping community activity centers appropriately connected.
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
There were three public meetings conducted virtually via Microsoft Teams on Monday, October 4, 2021
at noon and 5 p.m. and on Tuesday, October 5, 2021 at 5 p.m. These meetings have been recorded and
are available for review. Comments from this public comment period have been summarized and listed in
Attachments E and F of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been added or significantly
modified:
Route 6 – East 6th Avenue: schedule adjustments addressing on-time performance
Route 11 – Mississippi: schedule adjustments related to school bell times
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: schedule adjustments related to school bell times
Route 24 – University Boulevard: schedule adjustments related to school bell times
Route 38 – 38th Avenue: schedule adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 65 – Monaco Parkway: schedule adjustments related to school bell times
Route 73 – Quebec Street: schedule adjustments related to school bell times
Route 76 – Wadsworth Crosstown: schedule adjustments to address on-time performance

Packet Pg. 24

2.12.E

Route 104L – Wagon Road/DEN Limited: schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections
Route 520 – Brighton: schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections
Route BOUND – East CU Campus/Boulder: schedule adjustments to address on-time performance
Route RX – Brighton/Denver: schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections
Free Mall Ride – 16th Street: schedule adjustments due to anticipated construction

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements
Route 15 – East Colfax: Extend selected trips to the new Amazon facility.
Route 15L – East Colfax: Add bus stops to the Route 15L at Glencoe and Syracuse Streets.
FLEXRIDE: Expand hours of operation to 5:30 am - 7:00 pm on FlexRides to provide appropriate service
ours as customers return to work

Routes proposed for routine service adjustments (schedule adjustment/ schedule
analysis)
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: Adjust current schedule and trip patterns
Route 6 – East 6th Avenue: schedule adjustments addressing on-time performance
Route 8 – North Broadway/Huron: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and
efficiencies
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 11 – Mississippi: schedule adjustments related to bell times at South High School
Route 12 – Downing/ North Washington: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 16 – West Colfax: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 19 – North Pecos: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: schedule adjustments related to bell times at East High School
Route 24 – University Boulevard: schedule adjustments related to bell times at East High School
Route 36 – Fort Logan: Shift trips on weekdays to accommodate school bell times
Route 37 – Smith Road Industrial: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 38 – 38th Avenue: schedule adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 44 – 44th Avenue: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 48 – East 48th Avenue/Commerce City: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 65 – Monaco Parkway: schedule adjustments related to bell times at George Washington and
Thomas Jefferson high schools
Route 73 – Quebec Street: schedule adjustments related to bell times at South High School
Route 76 – Wadsworth Crosstown: schedule adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 83 – Cherry Creek/Parker Road: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 104L – Brighton/DEN: schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections
Route 208 – Iris/Valmont: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance

Packet Pg. 25

2.12.E

Route 520 – Brighton: schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections
Route AB – Boulder/Denver Airport: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont: Running time adjustments to address on-time performance
Route BOUND – East CU Campus/Boulder: schedule adjustments to address on-time performance
Route RX – Brighton/Denver: schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections
Free Mall Ride – 16th Street: schedule adjustments due to anticipated construction
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall estimated financial impact contained in this proposal is designed to be cost neutral.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

January 2022 Attachment A

•

January 2022 Attachment B - Commuting Solutions (PDF)

•

January 2022 Attachment C - City of Boulder Transportation and Mobility

•

January 2022 Attachment D - City and County of Broomfield (PDF)

•

January 2022 Attachment E - Boulder Chamber and Boulder Transportation Connections

•

January 2022 Attachment F - Boulder Chamber of Commerce (PDF)

•

January 2022 Attachment G - Town of Superior

•

January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (PDF)

•

January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments

(DOCX)
(PDF)
(PDF)

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Acting Senior Manager of Service Development
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 26

2.12.E.a

BUS

Route 6 – East 6th Avenue
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 8 – North Broadway/Huron
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 11 – Mississippi
Schedule adjustments related to bell times at South High School.
Route 12 – Downing/North Washington
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 15 – East Colfax
Extended selected trips east beyond Himalaya Street to 13th/Piccadilly, serving new Amazon
Den8 facility. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 15L – East Colfax
Added bus stops to the Route 15L at Glencoe and Syracuse Streets to increase customer
access. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 16 – West Colfax
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 19 – North Pecos
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
Schedule adjustments related to bell times at East High School
Route 24 – University Boulevard
Schedule adjustments related to bell times at East High School

1|Page
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment A (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Route 3 – Alameda Avenue
Adjust current schedule and trip patterns to improve schedule efficiency. No cost impacts
anticipated.

2.12.E.a

Route 36 – Fort Logan
Shifted trips on the 36 weekdays to accommodate the Colorado School for the Blind return
to standard operating hours. No cost impact anticipated.

Route 38 – 38th Avenue
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 44 -44th Avenue
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 48 – East 48th Avenue/ Commerce City
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impact
anticipated.
Route 65 – Monaco Parkway
Schedule adjustments related to bell times at George Washington and Thomas Jefferson
High Schools.
Route 73 – Quebec Street
Schedule adjustments related to bell times at South High School.
Route 76 – Wadsworth Crosstown
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impact
anticipated.
Route 83 – Cherry Creek/Parker Road
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and schedule efficiency. No cost
impact anticipated.
Route 208 – Iris/Valmont
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and schedule efficiency. No cost
impact anticipated.
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and schedule efficiency. No cost
impact anticipated.
Route 104L – Wagon Road/DEN Limited:
Schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections with Route 520

2|Page
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment A (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Route 37 – Smith Road Industrial
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and efficiencies. No cost impacts
anticipated.

2.12.E.a

Route 520 – Brighton
Schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections with Route RX. No cost impact
anticipated.

Route BOUND – East CU Campus/Boulder
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and schedule efficiency. No cost
impact anticipated.
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and schedule efficiency. No cost
impact anticipated.
Route RX – Brighton/Denver
Schedule adjustments aimed at improving connections with Route 104L. No cost impact
anticipated.
Free MallRide – 16th Street
Due to anticipated construction slated to begin early 2022, Mall Shuttle service will be
detoured. The detours will impact cycle times of the Mall service and will result in a reduction
of service frequency that is not readily predictable at this time.
FLEXRIDE
Expand hours of operation to 5:30 a.m.–7:00 p.m. in the following FlexRide areas to provide
extended service as customers return to work: Arapahoe, Belleview, Brighton, Broomfield,
Dry Creek, Evergreen, Federal Heights, Golden, Green Mountain, Interlocken/Westmoor,
Lone Tree, Longmont, Louisville, Meridian, North and South Inverness, Orchard, Parker,
South Jeffco, Superior, Thornton, Wagon Road.
Anticipated cost impact is estimated to be 8,096 annualized hours.

3|Page
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment A (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Route AB – Boulder/Denver Airport
Running time adjustments to address on-time performance and schedule efficiency. No cost
impact anticipated.

October 6, 2021
Debra Johnson
RTD Board of Directors
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Ms. Johnson,
Commuting Solutions is the Transportation Management Organization (TMO) for the
northwest metro region and is pleased to have been a long-standing partner with the
RTD. As part of our TMO Service Contract with the RTD, we conduct significant
community outreach to educate the public about RTD service in our region.
We recently completed several RTD Rider Appreciation events in which Director
Guissinger and Director Davidson were able to attend with us along the US 36 corridor.
As part of this customer engagement, we received valuable feedback from the
experience which we would like to relay to you to share their feedback about riding the
RTD.
Overwhelmingly, riders requested the restoration of the FF2 and FF4 services. They
noticed an increase in ridership since CU Boulder started the fall semester in August.
We heard of standing room only, especially in the evenings.
As an advocate for improving mobility in our region, we are informed about the
challenges the RTD is facing to operate the existing service let alone restore service
back to pre-COVID levels, and we know balancing the driver shortage and increasing
service is huge problem for the agency.
We are concerned about the increased demand for transit taking place in our region and
would like to discuss options for addressing the issue. Is there a possibility to add a few
FF2 and FF4 trips in the AM and PM only, instead of adding service all day? We are
interested in mutually exploring a variety of solutions to help address the problem we
are experiencing.
One item we want to make sure you know about is a TDM grant CDOT has awarded to
Commuting Solutions for the next 8 months to assist in increasing Flatiron Flyer
ridership through expanded community marketing, outreach and distributing free RTD
mobile tickets to Flatiron Flyer passengers. We are excited to work with your team on
this program.

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment B - Commuting Solutions (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.b

Please let us know if we can schedule a meeting to discuss how we can address the
growing travel demand in the US 36 corridor. We look forward to continuing to partner
with you and your team going forward.
Sincerely,

Rob Zuccaro
Board Chairperson
cc:

Northwest Mayors & Commissions Coalition
RTD Board of Directors
RTD Service Changes

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment B - Commuting Solutions (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.b

October 7, 2021
RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
RE: Proposed January 2022 Service Changes
Dear RTD Board Chairperson Rivera-Malpiede and General Manager Johnson,
The City of Boulder appreciates our long-standing partnership with RTD in supporting and advancing
regional and local transit services. The city understands how unprecedented financial conditions due
to COVID-19 have caused RTD to provide significantly reduced service levels and route options since
April 2020. We appreciate RTD’s latest efforts to respond with incremental service additions to
address routes and areas demonstrating a growing demand – especially considering University of
Colorado Boulder (CU-Boulder) and Boulder Valley School District student return to campus this fall.
The city continues to monitor RTD service levels and transit needs in the community and has been
following the development of the proposed service plan for January 2022. We appreciate the
opportunity to attend the RTD Service Change Stakeholder Listening Session - Boulder County on
August 26th and the October 4th and 5th public meetings to listen to customer comments and provide
input on local transit needs and priorities.
In follow-up to these meetings, please find below our comments for consideration in respect to the
Proposed January 2022 Service Changes:
1.) Concern that the Proposed January 2022 Service Changes do not include any fixedroute service restorations. Review of the Proposed January 2022 Service Changes
indicates service restorations are not planned in the district. The absence of restorations with
this service change is concerning, as market conditions continue to improve and there is
common understanding that RTD is incrementally restoring service using federal relief funding.
We understand RTD operator shortage is impacting its ability to add service and appreciate
RTD’s efforts to resolve this for the provision of additional restorations in the near future.

1101 Arapahoe, Boulder CO 80302

|

bouldercolorado.gov

|

303-441-3200

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment C - City of Boulder Transportation and Mobility (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.c

2.) Request to restore Flatiron Flyer 2 and Flatiron Flyer 4 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
services. We heard many customer comments requesting Flatiron Flyer 2 and Flatiron Flyer 4
service restoration in the latest round of public meetings and echo these sentiments.
Restoring Flatiron Flyer 2 service is important to enhancing the attractiveness of commuter
transit between Boulder and Denver through reintroducing this popular limited-stop, express
service option. Furthermore, restoration of the Flatiron Flyer 4 route is especially critical to
reestablishing regional transit services along the 2.5-mile segment of 28th Street/US-36
between the Table Mesa park-and-ride and Arapahoe Avenue, the east side of CU-Boulder’s
campus, and at the Boulder Junction Transit Center. Significant RTD and city partnership
efforts and funding, along with sizable private sector investments, have been dedicated to
building the Boulder Junction Transit Center and surrounding transit-oriented development
(TOD). Flatiron Flyer 4 BRT service is an essential transit service that needs to be reinstated
to connect Denver, CU-Boulder, the Twenty-Ninth Street Mall commercial area with over
18,000 workers, and the Boulder Junction TOD area featuring more than 300 affordable
housing units with additional planned.
3.) Request to restore GS-Golden/Boulder service. As echoed in the public meetings, the city
continues to hear concerns from customers about the suspension of the GS-Golden/Boulder
route between Boulder and Golden and requests its restoration. The GS provided critical
transit service to the National Energy Renewable Lab, Colorado School of Mines, Federal
Center, and CU-Boulder, and these entities have returned to on-site work and classes without
a direct transit option via the connecting SH 93 corridor. Restoring GS service is important to
supporting work and school commuter travel demand in the western part of our region.
4.) Continued collaboration to revisit service options in the Gunbarrel area. City staff has
received several messages from area residents citing concern with the discontinuation of the
#205-28thStreet/Gunbarrel service between Lookout Road/Gunpark and Heatherwood, and we
have shared those messages with RTD staff. With the discontinuation of the #205 segment,
the East Gunbarrel and Heatherwood areas no longer have a transit option. Customers have
reported this service discontinuation has impacted job access, grocery store access, and
school trips for Boulder Valley School District (BVSD) high school students. We appreciate
RTD’s recent conversations with city staff to further examine this issue and look forward to
more collaborative discussions in determining a viable transit solution that provides effective
and efficient mobility in this transit desert, including the possibility of new flex service.
5.) Continued public information and passenger updates regarding the status of reduced,
suspended, and discontinued services and RTD plans for restoration. Since the COVID19 Service Plan was implemented on April 20, 2020, there remain questions in the community
about the status of reduced, suspended, and discontinued services and when RTD plans to
1101 Arapahoe, Boulder CO 80302

|

bouldercolorado.gov

|

303-441-3200

-2Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment C - City of Boulder Transportation and Mobility (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.c

restore service. In Boulder, the following six (6) bus routes have been indefinitely suspended
since April 20, 2020, yet their bus stops remain visible on the street: 209, J, Flatiron Flyer 2,
Flatiron Flyer 4, Flatiron Flyer 6 and Airport/Boulder 2. In customer service messaging, we
encourage RTD to continue to provide regular updates on the status of impacted routes and
restoration plans so that riders and the community can remain informed of available
transportation options and have common expectations of current and future RTD service
levels.
As community health and economic conditions continue to improve, we welcome continued
collaboration with RTD to ensure the restoration and provision of attractive transit options for workers,
students, and the transit dependent who seek to travel within our community and the region.
Thank you for your consideration of our comments and requests. Please direct follow-up
communication on these items to Danny O’Connor, Transit Program Manager
(OConnorD@bouldercolorado.gov), who is available to further continue this discussion and
collaborate on next steps.
We look forward to continued partnership efforts in preserving, restoring, and improving transit
services in Boulder and across the region.
Sincerely,

Erika Vandenbrande
Director of Transportation & Mobility
Cc:
Lynn Guissinger, RTD Director, District O
Sam Weaver, Mayor
Natalie Stiffler, Deputy Director of Transportation & Mobility
Danny O’Connor, Transit Program Manager

1101 Arapahoe, Boulder CO 80302

|

bouldercolorado.gov

|

303-441-3200

-3Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment C - City of Boulder Transportation and Mobility (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.c

2.12.E.d

u
u

Debra Johnson, General Manager
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202

- s

RE: January 2022 Service Changes

u -

Dear Ms. Johnson,

co co

The City and County of Broomfield appreciates the opportunity to provide input to the January 2022
service changes.

7

:::,
0

E

.

}--

sI

z S0
co

<

V
O

or tvE

-<

0 ~
co

do

>
~ ·c
co

o SE

Broomfield urges RTD to increase levels of US 36 Flatiron Flyer services to support regional
commuters, in particular, FF4 to Civic Center. Broomfield also supports the restoration of the FF2
which will increase capacity on the FF1 service. Commuting Solutions recently conducted outreach
at the US 36 BRT stations along with RTD Directors Davidson and Guissinger. Overwhelmingly,
feedback heard from current riders was to restore the FF2 and FF4 services.

0
0

Locally, Broomfield seeks to support access to the regional stations including the restoration of local
route 128 providing Broomfield residents with access to the US 36 & Broomfield Station, Wagon Road
Park N Ride, and the N-Line 124th & Eastlake station. The route also locally connects to
Broomfield's governmental civic area including city hall, police, courts, and Broomfield's new and
expanded recreational center also providing senior services and low-cost meals available to all
residents.

co

Broomfield appreciates and supports the expansion of FlexRide service hours from 6:00 a.m - 6:00

0

....J ~
do

Li

co

LL

0

d

c

~

c

p.m. to the proposed 5:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. schedule. Broomfield also seeks to deploy the full
resources available in the 2020-2024 DRCOG Transportation Improvement Program grant to expand
operational hours on the Broomfield and lnterlocken FlexRide services. Broomfield secured $1.4
million in operational support of RTD FlexRide for four years in Broomfield and lnterlocken. RTD is
two years behind in deploying the hours due to IGA delays incurred by RTD and currently has not
fully deployed the available grant hours in the service area. The hours to be deployed are during the
peak hours to support commuters and school trips. Broomfield urges RTD to take full advantage of
these grant resources secured by Broomfield and expand the service operations and area in
coordination with RTD staff. We look forward to RTD's partnership to increase service to Broomfield
area transit riders with funding secured by Broomfield.
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input and feedback on transit service priorities.

Guyleen Castriotta
City & County of Broomfield Mayor

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment D - City and County of Broomfield [Revision 1] (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

October 7, 2021

October 4, 2021
To: The RTD Board of Directors and General Manager/CEO Debra Johnson
From: The Boulder Chamber & Boulder Transportation Connections
The Boulder Chamber and its mobility services arm, Boulder Transportation Connections, offer our input during your public
comment period to address proposed service changes for January 2022.
Our organizations recognize that service restoration is necessary throughout the RTD district. Across the northwest region, in
particular, we’re experiencing increased demand for transit service restoration on routes RTD cut during the height of last
year’s pandemic-induced business closers, with no indication or timeline for their restoration. The result is a break in our
previous high transit ridership mode share, as workers are forced to rely on single-occupant vehicle travel for their workplace
commutes.
The Boulder County Commissioners recently copied us on a letter to RTD pleading for the restoration of transit service
throughout our communities. The urgency in their request is a sentiment we share. We also emphasize the opportunity for
new partnership approaches to meet transit service demand. As the County Commissioners suggest, our community stands
ready to join forces with RTD, bringing alternative resources and tools to the table.
In keeping with our partnership offer, we reiterate here our key transit service expectations, as highlighted in our past letters
to RTD:






We support the service restoration request by the Boulder County Commissioners and ask RTD leadership to meet with
us and other regional mobility agencies to establish criteria, strategies, and a timelines for meeting those service and
funding restoration goals.
We urge RTD to enter into an inter-agency agreement with our local communities that will guide the investment of
federal transit stimulus dollars designated for the small, urbanized areas within Boulder County, providing assurance
that federal dollars will be invested in service restoration that benefits Boulder-area residents and workforce.
We encourage RTD to consider partnership models for service restoration and enhancement that, much like the HOP
operations, give local governments the opportunity to contract with private transit agencies for efficient service
delivery that is reimbursed financially by RTD.

As an example of the partnership model we outline above, the Boulder Chamber has been working with the City of Boulder
and private sector interests to implement micro-transit service that will meet mobility needs for our workforce and residents
in the Gunbarrel area where RTD cut the 205 Route. The Boulder Chamber already secured partial funding commitments from
its private sector partners for this new micro-transit framework. We would appreciate the opportunity to meet with General
Manager Debra Johnson to further detail this public-private partnership and to seek support from RTD for this vision of
innovative, flexible and cost-effective service restoration.
We thank you for your attention to our input on RTD’s proposed January 2022 service changes and look forward to further
discussion of partnership models for restoring transit service in northwest region.
Sincerely,

John Tayer, President & CEO

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment E - Boulder Chamber and Boulder Transportation Connections (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.e

2.12.E.f

September 24, 2021
RTD Board of Directors and General Manager/CEO Debra Johnson
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
RE: January 2022 Service Change Proposal and Ongoing Service Restoration Requests
Dear RTD Board of Directors and General Manager/CEO Debra Johnson,
In support of our regional climate, air quality, and social equity goals, Boulder County, the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) and our state and local agency partners have the shared responsibility
to encourage and support the use of public transit and other sustainable transportation options. We
understand the magnitude of the impacts to RTD and our local communities from the COVID-19
pandemic and recognize that our collective paths forward to restore public health and our vibrant
economy will require strong partnerships and collaboration.
We are encouraged by the increased demand for transit that we are seeing within and between
Boulder County communities, and for regional transit trips along the US36 corridor. We appreciate
the initial transit bus service restoration in January 2021 provided by RTD within Boulder County and
the pending partnership to restore transit access for the Lyons community.
Over the last several months Boulder County, along with our community partners, have met with
RTD staff, submitted letters, and participated in RTD listening sessions to provide input to help guide
RTD’s service restoration process.
Based on these concerted efforts, we strongly object to the fact that RTD’s proposed January 2022
service changes do not include any further restoration of transit service, including local service within
Boulder County nor additional regional service. In addition, RTD’s current approach to service
restoration is not reflecting the recent RTD Accountability Committee’s recommendations to
encourage community-based transit planning in collaboration with local and regional stakeholders.
Our on-going efforts to engage with RTD to help shape the future for transit service in our
communities seems to be at an impasse. This situation is particularly concerning given RTD’s current
role as the designated recipient of the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) authorized federal
stimulus funding for the Urbanized Areas (UZAs) within Boulder County, including Boulder,
Longmont, and the combined UZA of Louisville/Lafayette/Erie. (See Table 1, pg. 6)
Our
understanding of the intent of the FTA transit stimulus funding is that it is specifically intended for
transit service restoration to, from, and within the designated UZAs.
Our request is a meeting with RTD leadership to discuss our service restoration requests and our
proposal to develop an inter-agency agreement with RTD, Colorado Department of Transportation

Matt Jones County Commissioner

Claire Levy County Commissioner

Marta Loachamin County Commissioner

Boulder County Courthouse • 1325 Pearl Street • Boulder, Colorado 80302 • Tel: 303.441.3500 • Fax: 303.441.4525
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 471 • Boulder, CO 80306 • www.BoulderCounty.org • commissioners@bouldercounty.org

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment F - Boulder Chamber of Commerce (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Board of County Commissioners

2.12.E.f

Background
Our efforts to work with RTD as the direct recipient of the designated funds for the UZAs within
Boulder County began in April 2021 and have continued throughout the summer into the Fall. During
this time, staff from Boulder County and the cities of Boulder, Longmont, Lafayette, Louisville, and
the Town of Erie have been met numerous times with RTD staff and other agency partners including
the CDOT and FTA to review these requests and discuss potential solutions to bring back basic levels
of local and regional transit service in response to the on-going requests from our community
stakeholders and transit customers.
In addition to meetings with RTD staff, we have provided formal written comments submitted to RTD
as part of your “listening sessions” as well as submitted a joint letter to RTD in June signed by Boulder
County, City of Boulder, University of Colorado-Boulder, and the Boulder Chamber outlining our
service restoration requests.
Federal Transit Stimulus Funds for UZAs within Boulder County & Proposed Inter-agency Agreement
Per Table 1 (page 6), RTD is designated to receive approximately $700M in federal stimulus funding
from the FTA, as well as additional FTA discretionary funding opportunities becoming available this
Fall. The intent of these federal stimulus dollars is to restore transit service in support of our
economic recovery goals and to help bring back transit-related employment opportunities.
As we have been discussing with RTD, CDOT, FTA, and our local agencies, a portion of these federal
stimulus funds (~$69M) have been allocated by the FTA for the purpose of restoring transit service
within, and to/from, the small Urbanized Areas (UZAs) within Boulder County, including the UZAs for
Boulder, Longmont, and a joint area designated for Louisville-Lafayette-Erie. It is FTA’s intent for
these federal stimulus dollars be spent in the jurisdictions for which they were apportioned.
To advance our multi-agency discussions regarding the investment of these federal transit stimulus
funds for the UZAs within the county, we are proposing an intergovernmental agreement with RTD,
CDOT, Boulder County and the local communities representing the UZAs. This agreement will serve
as a framework by which we all agree to restore the following high priority transit service routes as
well as develop a set of partnership opportunities in support of the transit customers within these
specific UZAs as well as within the broader Denver metro region.
Transit Service Restoration Requests
•

US36 Corridor:

As community partners, we are particularly troubled that RTD is not planning to restore any
additional Flatiron Flyer (FF) service along US36 corridor well into 2022. Since it’s opening in
2016, the US36 corridor has served as a high-performing, multimodal mobility solution for the
Denver metro area and is regarded as statewide and national role model. RTD’s Flatiron Flyer
service is one of the primary keys to success for US36. The lack of service restoration on the FF2
express route and the FF4 route serving Denver Civic Center and Boulder Junction continues to
be quite frustrating and is impacting transit access to residents and commuters from Boulder
County, as well as Broomfield, Westminster, and Downtown Denver. In addition, there are
millions of dollars in public and private sector investment in transit-oriented development within
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment F - Boulder Chamber of Commerce (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

(CDOT), and our local communities to guide investment of the federal transit funds allocated by FTA
to the UZAs within Boulder County.

2.12.E.f

•

•

•

Restore FF4 Route Service between Denver Civic Center and Boulder Junction via US 36
o As multiple constituents noted during prior public comment, the FF4 served a
different market than the FF1, which currently greatly increases trip times for
people travelling to either Boulder Junction or Denver Civic Center. Beyond
Boulder County, the regional FF4 route also serves communities along the US36
corridor, including the City & County of Broomfield and the City of Westminster.
o Restoration of regional transit service to and from the Boulder Junction
neighborhood continues to be a high priority request from Boulder County and
the City of Boulder. The Boulder Junction area Transit-Oriented Development
(TOD) district has invested more than $30M in public infrastructure investment
over recent years – including ~$8M from RTD to build the Boulder Junction Depot
Square Transit Station. Furthermore, the private properties within the Boulder
Junction area continue to tax themselves through a special district to pay for
EcoPasses for all residents and employees. Given the community investment in
transit-supportive land use and accompanying pass programs, it is frustrating
that this area continues to remain unserved by RTD.
Restore Route FF2 Express service between Downtown Denver Union Station and
Boulder/Louisville/Superior
o As has been noted in prior public comment, the FF1 carries a significant travel
time penalty compared to the express service previously provided by route FF2.
Currently, many FF1 trips are standing room only. Restoration of the FF2 express
service is critical to attracting downtown Denver and downtown Boulder
workers back to transit as more of these jobs are returning to the office. FF2
service will also help to relieve overcrowding on the FF1.
o With no FF2 service on US36, the capital investments made in the managed
express lanes – including from RTD – are not being used to benefit transit riders
since the FF1 service does not use the managed express lanes.
Longmont
o

o

Restore express service between Longmont and downtown Denver via route
LX1/LX2
 For travel between Longmont and downtown Denver, the route LD
carries a significant travel time penalty when compared the express
service previously provided by route LX. As more people return to work
in downtown Denver restoration of express service via route LX is
essential to attracting these workers back to transit.
Increase service frequency and span of service on the 300-series local routes
 Several of the local Longmont routes were among the most productive
routes in Boulder County during the pandemic, but two of the four
routes still run on hourly headways with very little transit service in the
community after 7pm. Increased frequency and span of service are
Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment F - Boulder Chamber of Commerce (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

these communities that have been built upon the foundation of high-quality Flatiron Flyer
service.

•

essential to making transit a viable means of transportation within
Longmont. The 300-series routes also serve low-income neighborhoods
and are important for our shared social equity goals.
Restore service between Boulder County and Jefferson County
o Restore GS Route: Golden/Lakewood to Boulder
 As more than 60 people noted in recent public meetings, this was a longstanding route that provided a crucial connection for both Boulder
County and Jefferson County residents and commuters working at NREL,
the Federal Center, and other regional employers. Currently this route
is unserved by RTD. Even limited restoration (a handful of trips in the AM
and PM peak) would be much appreciated.

Innovative Partnerships
With RTD’s available federal stimulus funds and labor shortage in mind, we are requesting that RTD
support opportunities to develop creative partnerships that do not rely on RTD operators for
service delivery and provide flexibility to serve unique transit travel markets. We are proposing
three opportunities for such partnerships with RTD and local communities:
•
•

•

Restore HOP route funding to the City of Boulder. HOP route is historically been co-funded
by the city, RTD, and CU-Boulder students,
Contribute to co-funding of an on-demand transit service for east Gunbarrel/Heatherwood
to restore service to this area due to the cuts to the Route 205. This service will be a
public-private partnership model,
Contribute co-funding to support service operations for the Ride Free Lafayette ondemand transit service in response to growing ridership.

Each of these requests for partnerships will help build back ridership and transit service
incrementally toward pre-COVID levels without increasing pressure on RTD’s operator capacity.
Next Steps
Boulder County is firmly committed to working with RTD and all of our agency partners to provide
transit service to our constituents, providing safe, affordable, equitable, and sustainable transit
access for our community members in service of our shared goals.
Our staff will reach out to arrange a meeting with RTD representatives to discuss the proposed
interagency agreement.
Sincerely,

Matt Jones

Marta Loachamin

Claire Levy

Boulder County Commissioners
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment F - Boulder Chamber of Commerce (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.f

2.12.E.f

Governor Jared Polis
Shoshana Lew, Executive Director, Colorado Department of Transportation
Amber Blake, Director of Transit & Rail, Colorado Department of Transportation
Cindy Terwilliger, Federal Transit Administration Regional Administrator, FTA Region 8
John Tayer, President & CEO, Boulder Chamber & Northwest Chamber Alliance
City of Boulder:
Mayor Sam Weaver
Erika Vandenbrande, Director of Transportation & Mobility
City of Longmont:
Mayor Brian Bagley
Phil Greenwald, Transportation Manager
City of Louisville:
Mayor Ashley Stolzmann
Megan Davis, Interim City Manager
City Lafayette:
Mayor Jamie Harkins
Jeff Arthur, Public Works Director
Town of Erie:
Mayor Jennifer Carroll
Todd Fessenden, Public Works Director
Boulder County:
Kathleen Bracke, Deputy Director, Community Planning & Permitting - Transportation Planning

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment F - Boulder Chamber of Commerce (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

CC:

2.12.E.f

Federal Stimulus Funding (5307)
Coronavirus
Coronavirus
Aid, Relief,
Response and
and Economic Relief
Security
Supplemental
(CARES) Act
Appropriations
Act (CRRSAA)

Urbanized Areas (UZA) within
Boulder County

Urbanized
Area
Population

Boulder, CO

114,591

$11,612,002

Lafayette--Louisville--Erie, CO

79,407

Longmont, CO

90,897

Total/Countywide:

Denver/Aurora

2,374,203

American
Rescue Plan
Act (ARPA)

Total: CARES,
CRRSA & ARPA

$12,462,285

$32,292,525

$56,366,812

$3,510,141

$0

$592,721

$4,102,862

$7,737,883

$0

$1,355,722

$9,093,605

$22,860,026

$12,462,285

$34,240,968

$69,563,279

$209,393,920

$190,905,243

$304,227,365

$704,526,528

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment F - Boulder Chamber of Commerce (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Table 1: Federal Transit Administration – Federal Stimulus Funding 2020-21

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment G - Town of Superior (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.g

October 8, 2021
Debra Johnson, General Manager
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
RE: January 2022 Service Changes
Dear Ms. Johnson:
The Town of Superior appreciates the opportunity to provide input to the January 2022
service changes . Superior urges RTD to increase levels of US 36 Flatiron Flyer services
to support regional commuters, in particular, the restoration of the FF2 which will increase
capacity on the FF 1 service. Superior also supports the restoration of the FF4 service to
the Civic Center. Commuting Solutions recently conducted outreach at the US 36 BRT
stations along with RTD Directors Davidson and Guissinger. Overwhelmingly, feedback
heard from current riders was to restore the FF2 and FF4 services.
Thank you for your consideration of our comments and request . We look forward to RTD's
partnership to increase service to Superior area transit riders.
Sincerely,

(Jt;:.f~~
Clint Folsom
Mayor

124 E. Coal Creek Drive · Superior, CO 80027 · (303) 499-3675

Packet Pg. 43

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00390988

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 7/13/2021, 7:11 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi! I'm curious to know if and when the FF4 route might resume? The lack of that route
prevents me from taking public transportation from my home in Broomfield to work at 1801 California.
Alternate routes aren't competitive to working from home and driving in very infrequently. The FF4 was a
great service. Thank you!
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Gerald
Home Phone: 817-937-2727
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Flanagan
Work Phone:
Email: gerald.patrick.flanagan@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Thu Jul 15 15:26:53 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00508921

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 10/5/2021, 2:31 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please have more buss of the FF5. Pre pandemic there was a bus every 45 minutes. I use
to take the FF5 bus every day. Since I work in a clinic my hours differ from day to day. The current
schedule doesn't allow for any flexibility and I end up being another car on the road adding to congestion.
Back then the bus was often packed! I bet you could have full buses again even with them coming every 30
minutes. Matter of fact, if the buses don't come back I will need to consider a new job.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Carissa
Home Phone: (702) 738-8031
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Hluchan
Work Phone:
Email: carissahluchan@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Oct 06 15:16:46 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Jul 12 18:23:07 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Good Morning, I was recently reviewing the proposed service changes for September and
was surprised to see that the FF2 is not scheduled to return. I hope this is not a sign of that bus line being
discontinued. I used to take that bus daily from Denver (Union Station) up to CU Boulder's campus. As
you know it is significantly more efficient than the FF1. Do you expect it will be restarted? If so, when? I
could also imagine the FF2 running every 15 minutes instead of every 10 during peak hours to decrease the
necessary resources, but you all would know better what that looks like with pre-pandemic ridership
numbers and what that looks like as people being moving around more and going to work/school in person.
Thank you for your consideration. -Kevin
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Kevin
Home Phone: (315) 212-2392
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Lobdell
Work Phone:
Email: kevin.lobdell@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00389417

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Jul 09 16:26:35 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: I am submitting a comment regarding the proposed Sept 2021 service plan. I was deeply
dismayed to hear that the flat iron flyer routes 2 and 4 are not slated to return to service. I've been a
long-time rider depending on these routes for my daily work commute. For the past 17 years, I've relied on
RTD to get me between Louisville (home) and the Colorado judicial center (work) near civic center station.
I plan on returning to work full time in September - as will many others I work with who commute from
Boulder County. I understand the FF1 is the only route currently servicing regional travelers from Boulder
County. I am concerned the FF1will add significant time to my commute and suffer from overcrowding as
ridership returns from the pandemic. I urge you to resume operating either or both the FF2 and FF4 routes
to support the commuting needs of Boulder County residents working in Denver. Thank you for your
consideration. Jason King Senior Assistant Attorney General Colorado Attorney General's Office Natural
Resources & Environment Section (720) 508-6283 PRIVILEGED/CONFIDENTIAL
ATTORNEY-CLIENT COMMUNICATION; ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT. This email transmission
and any documents, files or previous email messages attached to it may contain information that is
confidential or legally privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, or a person responsible for
delivering it to the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that you must not disclose, copy, print, or
distribute or make any use of the information contained in or attached to this transmission. If you have
received this transmission is error, please immediately notify the sender by return email and delete the
original transmission and its attachments without saving it in any manner.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:
Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00385824

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.h

Response Requested?: false

Packet Pg. 48

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Oct 06 14:51:29 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, As someone who lives in Denver and works in Boulder, the FF2 was a fantastic
service and I used it everyday. Now I drive into Boulder instead because the only available route, the FF1,
is too slow with too many stops. It made sense to suspend the route during most of the COVID19 pandemic
but this route should be reinstated now. At least a few buses in the morning and evening rush hours. Will it
ever be? Thank you. -- *-----------------------------------------------------------------* ****I will be teleworking
for the foreseeable future. You can reach me at my cell number +1 (708) 257-9033. I will not be
responding to the telephone number below.**** *Christian Herrera* *Research Associate* *CIRES |
NOAA ESRL GML* *DSRC Rm. 2D137, 325 Broadway,* *Boulder, CO, 80305, USA* *E:
christian.herrera@noaa.gov <christian.herrera@noaa.gov>* *T: +1 (303) 497-6380* *W:
www.esrl.noaa.gov/gmd/staff/christian.herrera/ <http://www.esrl.noaa.gov/gmd/staff/laura.riihimaki/>*
*-----------------------------------------------------------------*
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00508706

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Oct 06 14:49:43 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi, I hope this message finds you well. I wanted to give some feedback on the FF1. I
commute from Denver to Boulder almost daily and have seen completely full FF1 buses during peak hours.
Additionally, it would be great to have another Flyer dropoff point in Boulder at Boulder Junction,
especially with winter coming up. Is there any plan to increase flyer service to Boulder, especially for
express buses or buses that go to Boulder Junction? Thanks, Zhila Emadi-Moorse
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00505560

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Oct 06 15:06:14 GMT 2021
Case# : 00506400

ADA?:
Date/Time Received:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Logged By: System

Route Details
Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please bring back the ff7. A lot of people need it.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Wendy
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: P
Work Phone:
Email: wendyp2963@msn.com

Packet Pg. 51

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Oct 06 15:21:44 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi, I would like to request that the FF4 route be prioritized for restoring service. I live
near the US36 and Wadsworth station and take that route to work in Boulder. The alternative options to get
to the Boulder Junction station aren't worth it to me (e.g., taking the FF1 to downtown Boulder and
transferring to the Hop easily takes over an hour). I've been driving alone in my car for the past 18 months
since there is no longer a convenient public transportation option. I also often see high ridership on the
route during the school semesters with commuter students riding the bus to the east side of CU's campus.
Thank you for your consideration and for taking public input. Cheers, Brandon
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Brandon
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Rodriguez
Work Phone:
Email: brandonrrodriguez@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00509433

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00393072

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 7/14/2021, 9:38 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding: McCaslin
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please return the FF2 to the route. The FF1 is packed, feels unsafe, and adds significant
commute time to my day. Thank you.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Rob
Home Phone: (303) 818-2603
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Ingle
Work Phone:
Email: mistingtreeyoga@yahoo.com

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Jul 14 21:07:34 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Thu Jul 15 17:16:37 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Good morning. I am writing RTD to strongly considering putting some FF2 and FF4
service lines back into operation in the September service changes. I live in Boulder County and work near
Civic Center in Denver, and would not have picked my choice of home had the FF2 and FF4 not provided
a reliable and quick transit option to my job. While I have been working remotely since the start of the
pandemic, our office is opening up again in September. Using the FF1 does not provide a viable option, as
it simply takes too long and I cannot meet both my family and professional obligations if I need to rely on
the FF1 each day. Over the past few months, I have taken the FF1 three times to/from Denver. Despite the
listed route times, it has taken me nearly an hour to get from my bus stop (McCaslin) during non-peak
commute times and closer to 1.5 hours during peak commute times (which may only get slower as more
people return to in-person work). I fully appreciate that RTD is suffering from driver shortages and other
challenges and I know that you have many hard choices to make, but strongly urge you to consider
re-instating at least some of the FF2 and/or FF4 service, as I know there are many other people in a similar
position as me. Thank you kindly, Sarah Keane Sarah M. Keane Attorney at Law She/Her/Hers O
303.825.7000 | C 619.992.9619 1675 Broadway | Suite 2300 | Denver, CO 80202 website | vCard |
Assistant Confidentiality Notice: The information contained in this e-mail message is intended only for the
personal and confidential use of the recipient named above. Any metadata contained in this message or
attachments is not intended for disclosure to the recipient or anyone else. This message may be an
attorney-client communication and/or confidential work product. If the reader of this message is not the
intended recipient, you have received this document in error. Any review, dissemination, distribution, or
copying of this message is strictly prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please
notify us immediately by e-mail, and delete the original message. Please consider our environment before
printing this email.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00394841

First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.h

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 55

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Jul 16 16:35:28 GMT 2021
Case# : 00395100

ADA?:
Date/Time Received:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Logged By: System

Route Details
Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: ________________________________ From: Sarah M. Keane <skeane@kaplankirsch.com> Sent: T
working mostly remotely since the start of the pandemic, our office is opening again, and I am expected to be back in
few months, I have taken the FF1 three times to/from Denver. Despite the listed route times, it has taken me nearly an
service, as I know there are many other people in a similar position as me. Thank you kindly, Sarah Keane Sarah M. K
LLP]<https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.kaplankirsch.com%2F&data=04%
619.992.9619<tel:619.992.9619> 1675 Broadway | Suite 2300 | Denver, CO 80202 website
<https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.kaplankirsch.com%2FPeople%2FSarah
vCard<https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.kaplankirsch.com%2FPeople%2
Assistant<mailto:cquintana@kaplankirsch.com>
[LinkedIn]<https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fcompany%
[Facebook]<https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fkaplanki
[Twitter]<https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2FKaplankirsch&data
information contained in this e-mail message is intended only for the personal and confidential use of the recipient nam
in error, please notify us immediately by e-mail, and delete the original message. Please consider our environment bef
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Lynn
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Guissinger
Work Phone:
Email: lynn.guissinger@rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 56

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Jul 16 16:41:52 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello Service dept., A quick follow-up to let you know that my last couple of FF1 trips
were almost at full capacity. I really hope that RTD can see the data and not wait to increase service levels
on the FF1 (and all FF routes) before you start permanently changing peoples habits back to their cars to
avoid overcrowded buses and inconvenient schedules. People are going back to the office in increasing
numbers and when colleges start in AUgust, Denver/Boulder bus traffic will increase even more. Lastly,
would you please send me the FF (all routes) schedule that was in force during the end of 2019. Kind
regards, David p.s. - A woman boarded the 5:25pm Westbound FF1 yesterday with a dog (which was not a
service dog). When did RTD start allowing pets on the bus? David Martus +1.720.480.2975 (M)
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: David
Home Phone: (720) 480-2975
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Martus
Work Phone:
Email: dmartus@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00396325

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Jul 19 21:37:02 GMT 2021

Logged By: System

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 7/16/2021, 12:15 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: I have been back at work since June 1 – five days a week. I make myself take the bus
most days, but it is no longer the convenience it used to be. Not paying for parking is the only current
benefit I can think of for taking the bus as my commute time has doubled because my bus, the FF7, has
been canceled. Please reinstate the FF7. If that is not going to happen anytime soon, please consider
extending the route of the FF1 during commuter hours so that it goes down 19th Street toward Civic Center
Station, making those 3 or so stops the FF7 used to make along the way, after dropping off at Union
Station or reinstate the green Metro Ride buses.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Yolanda
Home Phone: 303-552-8173
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Kerns
Work Phone:
Email: yolanda.kerns@kutakrock.com

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00396638

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Jul 20 21:02:29 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please reinstate the FF4 and/or FF7 routes for those of us commuting from Westminster
and Broomfield and who work closer to Civic Center than Union Station. Alternatively, please reinstate the
Free Metro Ride so that riders can safely get from Union Station to locations further downtown without
having to walk. Thanks, Sarah Mitchell Sent from my iPhone 12 mini
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00398612

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00399122

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 7/19/2021, 7:05 AM

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Jul 19 18:08:24 GMT 2021

Route Details
Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: When will your FF2 and FF4 service resume?
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Corrin
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Godar
Work Phone:
Email: corringodar@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 60

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Jul 19 18:11:34 GMT 2021

Logged By: Clare Tripp

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 7/19/2021, 12:03 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: When are you bringing back the FF4 & FF7 into service? There is nothing going to the
Civic Center except the Mall shuttle and it is always so packed, at least when I'm on it. {Boarding at
Broomfield}
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Kristi
Home Phone: 7209984811
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: 7209984811
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00399748

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Jul 20 20:50:28 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: RTD service When is the FF4 and/or Metro due to return to service after the COVID
reduced services are removed? Thank you Siegfried Appelt -- This email has been checked for viruses by
AVG. https://www.avg.com
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00400808

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Jul 19 16:43:15 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi Service Changes, Are there any plans to resume the FF7 route from Westminster to
downtown Denver? I know this was an extremely useful route for me and several coworkers. Can you
share with my any future plans to reinstate this route? Thanks, Cassie Todtenhagen Product Manager |
Insulation Systems Johns Manville | A Berkshire Hathaway Company W: +1-303-978-3516 Email:
cassie.todtenhagen@jm.com<mailto:cassie.todtenhagen@jm.com>
[cid:image001.png@01D77C76.0903FB40] This email, including attachments, is intended for the person
or company named and may contain confidential, proprietary and/or legally privileged information.
Unauthorized disclosure, copying or use of this information may be unlawful and is prohibited. If you are
not the intended recipient, please delete this message and notify the sender.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00399299

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Jul 20 14:52:29 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I am wondering if the FF2 line will come back online in September. It isn’t listed
on the RTD website as being affected by the September 2021 changes, but I wanted to know if there were
updates about the FF2 service. Thanks, Madeleine Witwer-Dukes
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00400939

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Jul 20 18:54:32 GMT 2021
Case# : 00401519

Date/Time Received: 7/20/2021, 12:33 PM

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Logged By: Clare Tripp

ADA?:

Route Details
Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Do you know when will the FF6 be running again?
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: William
Home Phone: (303) 351-1554
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: true

Last: Bickel
Work Phone:
Email: willb003@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 65

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Jul 27 18:23:19 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi, I was wondering if there were any updates on when or if the FF lines will be resuming
their services after midnight. With things opening back up and late night activities becoming available
being able to take a bus home was always quite enjoyable and safe in the before times. Of course I
understand that we are still not back to where we were before, and likely nothing has been finalized. I was
just wondering if there were any updates on the service change.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00402397

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Jul 27 18:28:06 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Dear RTD - As we all start returning to work, I am hoping you will re-adjust your
scheduling to support commuters who previously used your services. I am planning to travel to work next
week and cannot find service to support my needs, because certain things are missing. I am writing to
request that you *reinstate* the following: *The Express commuter bus to and from Longmont.* This
option has disappeared, so my only option is to use the Local (LD). The Local can get me TO work, but
what previously took me 50 - 55 minutes, will now take 90 minutes, one way. The return home option does
not exist because the 2 departures that RTD is offering leave before I can get to the station, once I finish
working (the latest is 5:23pm departure). This means that I will need to drive from Longmont to
Broomfield or Boulder and use a bus from there. So, please *also* reinstate: *Flatiron Flyer stops at the
Civic Center Station*. I cannot find any stops there. Without that as an option, my long commute is
extended by at least 30 additional minutes each way (1 hour extra each day). Consider this - I will need to
drive 25 to 35 minutes to a bus station. Park, take a bus to a location far from where I work, walk, take
another bus. This is significantly longer and more convoluted than the options offered previously and I am
unlikely to do this. Please reinstate service as soon as you can. I plan to regularly commute starting in
September. If you are unable to offer service, I will need to shift to driving, which means I will need to
purchase a parking pass and thus will not be an RTD user - a loss to you in ridership and revenue. The
previous bus route options also were not ideal, so I encourage you to keep an open mind to *improving*
service offerings to your Longmont constituents so they continue to evolve and are better than they were
pre-2020. As you know, we consistently pay a generous level of taxes to RTD, but we receive a level of
service that is not in alignment with the money infused. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Dana
Silkensen -- [image: photo] *Dana Silkensen* 720-987-7975 | Dana.Silkensen@guildeducation.com
<Dana.Silkensen@Guildeducation.com>
<http://www.facebook.com/Guild-Education-364203100456056/>
<http://www.linkedin.com/company/guild-education>
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00402832

2.12.E.h

Customer Information
Last:
Work Phone:
Email:
Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Packet Pg. 68

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Thu Jul 22 18:52:57 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi there Can you tell me when you will be reinstating the FF4 service to the Boulder
Junction Station? There are currently no busses to this station and this is where I need to ride to go back to
my office. Thanks [photo-logo] Melissa Crogle RMI Knowledge Management p 720-432-9730 w
rmi.org<https://img.newoldstamp.com/r/446583/w> e mcrogle@rmi.org<mailto:mcrogle@rmi.org> | 2490
Junction Place|Suite 200|Boulder, CO|80301
[facebook]<https://img.newoldstamp.com/r/446583/facebook>
[twitter]<https://img.newoldstamp.com/r/446583/twitter>
[linkedin]<https://img.newoldstamp.com/r/446583/linkedin>
[instagram]<https://img.newoldstamp.com/r/446583/instagram>
[banner]<https://img.newoldstamp.com/r/446583/b>
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00404491

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Jul 28 18:38:34 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I am starting a new job in October and will be commuting from Boulder to Denver
Health. I am wondering if any of the following Flatiron flyer routes will be back: FF2, FF6, FF4, or FF7.
Thank you, Laura Sent from my iPhone
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00408661

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Jul 27 21:17:48 GMT 2021

Logged By: System

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 7/26/2021, 11:02 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: To whom it may concern. Can you restart the FF2 commuter schedule from McCaslin into
Union on at least an abbreviated schedule? W-E in the morning and E-W in the afternoon. Even as few as
2-3 buses each way during commute hours would be good. Thank you. James
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: James
Home Phone: (512) 922-0567
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Williams
Work Phone:
Email: jamesmunroewilliams@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00408658

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Jul 27 21:04:13 GMT 2021

Logged By: Silvia Morales

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 7/23/2021, 2:33 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:
Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting: Civic Center Station

Date/Time:
Run No:
Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding: US 36 and McCaslin
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: I would like the FF4 reinstated from McCaslin to Civic Center Station. More people are
heading back to work and we are needing these routes to come back. I have been using the FF1 since the
FF4 has been gone, but its not as convenient.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Steve
Home Phone: 3038175311
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Kelly
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00406450

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00429689

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 8/9/2021, 11:32 AM

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 10 19:00:55 GMT 2021

Route Details
Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please reinstate FF4! My roommate and I would use it every week day.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Delaney
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Khung
Work Phone:
Email: dpkhung@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 73

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00411104

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 7/27/2021, 2:31 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: With CU Boulder starting back up, when will the FF2 be back in service. Without it, the
FF1 will be so packed, it will impossible to commute safely.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Lynn
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Kalinauskas
Work Phone:
Email: lkalinauskas@hotmail.com

Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Jul 30 21:47:20 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Aug 13 14:04:01 GMT 2021

Logged By: Jose Vasquez

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 8/6/2021, 1:58 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: You all should consider bringing back Route FF4. Many riders including myself, relied on
this bus to get us from Boulder directly to Civic Center Station.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Gregg
Home Phone: 7209380090
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Rossman
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00427001

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 03 14:43:06 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: To whom it may concern, I was a daily rider on the FF2 in the before times (before
COVID) and would happily be riding today. I get the chicken and the egg debate between ridership being
70% off because of COVID and thus no need to run empty buses, but at some point the world is reopening
as seen in the increase in traffic of single occupancy car drivers. maybe a 2 week provisional reinstatement
of FF2 or 122x, if ridership for that period is below whatever breakeven you need for ridership #s, then
turn it back off. Regards, Chris Freeman 303-638-7455
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00411573

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 02 19:50:17 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Is there a timeframe when the FF4 bus will restart? For those of use that work in the
Broadway end of downtown Denver, going to Union Station is less than ideal. Then you eliminated the
Flex Line and then expanded the time in between buses of the Mall Ride. Show some love to the people on
the opposite end of Denver from Union Station. [cid:image001.png@01D782B6.060BBBD0] Scott J
Plummer Senior Residential Appraiser Assessors Office/Department of Finance/City and County of
Denver phone: (720) 913-4052
311<https://www.denvergov.org/content/denvergov/en/denver-311-help-center.html> |
pocketgov.com<http://www.pocketgov.com/> | denvergov.org<http://www.denvergov.org/> | Denver 8
TV<https://denver8.tv/> | Facebook<http://www.facebook.com/cityandcountyofdenver> |
Twitter<https://twitter.com/CityofDenver> | Instagram<https://www.instagram.com/therealcityofdenver/>
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00411520

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Thu Aug 05 16:30:12 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi! I'm writing to express my concern about the FF2, FF4 and FF6 continuing to be
suspended, as I see they're not coming back with the September service updates. With students, faculty and
staff returning to the CU Boulder campus in just a few weeks, the FF1 is likely to be totally overwhelmed
(it was already standing-room-only leaving Boulder quite often before COVID). Since 2014, I've been
riding the FF4 or 6 to work nearly every day, and it was super-convenient. I'm going to look into
vanpooling for the fall, but would really prefer to use public transportation. I know you guys are facing a
lot of financial resource issues and that you likely need more support from the state (I'll be emailing my
state rep as well), but just wanted to voice my support for reinstating these routes or some other form of
Hwy 36 bus system as soon as possible. Thanks, Emily Adams | Senior Communications Specialist
Pronouns: She/her/hers University of Colorado Boulder College of Engineering and Applied Science
emilyadams@colorado.edu<mailto:emilyadams@colorado.edu> | 303-492-4166 [thumbnail_image003_0]
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Emily
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Adams
Work Phone:
Email: emilyadams@colorado.edu

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00423417

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 16 20:01:47 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Good afternoon, I'm reaching out regarding the service changes to the Flatiron Flyer that
are currently in place. I work near the Civic Center for the Department of Health Care Policy and
Financing, and just recently relocated to Boulder. I was bummed when I went to look at the bus schedule
and saw that not just one, but literally all routes from Boulder that had gone to the Civic Center Station
have been shut down. Due to this, the cost of my commute to Denver essentially triples from what I had
been expecting, and makes me reluctant to return to the office. There is still the FF1 available, but getting
all the way across downtown Denver on foot or by Mallride takes so much time that I would never use the
service. For this reason, I am very curious - is there any plan to bring the FF4 back? It was very convenient
when I lived in Boulder a few years ago, and had a large number of daily riders, so I would hope that there
is a concrete plan to bring it back. Please let me know when you have a chance. Thanks much, Mike
Whitman
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00433850

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00429850

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 8/9/2021, 1:47 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: When will the FF4 and/or the FF6 begin running again? I work for the University of
Colorado Boulder (east campus) and used to alternate between the FF4 and the FF6, both of which do not
run currently.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Melissa
Home Phone: (303) 735-6692
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Dunivant
Work Phone:
Email: melissa.dunivant@colorado.edu

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 10 18:57:08 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Aug 11 20:25:27 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi There, I was wondering if there is any update as to when the FF7 route will be active
again? Thanks, Traci Carlson, MS| Forensic Scientist 1-DNA Forensic Biology/DNA Unit, Denver Police
Department | City and County of Denver Phone: (720) 337-2053 | Fax: (720) 337-2134
Traci.Carlson@denvergov.org<mailto:Traci.Carlson@denvergov.org> "This e-mail and any attachments
thereto are intended only for use by the addressee(s) named herein and may contain legally privileged
and/or confidential information. If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, you are hereby notified
that any dissemination, distribution, or copying of this e-mail and any attachments thereto is strictly
prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please immediately notify me at 720-337-2053 and
permanently delete the original, any copy of this e-mail, and any printout thereof."
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00433367

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 23 15:13:48 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi there, I’m not certain that this is the correct venue but we really need to get the FF2
bus running again. For context it is the express bus between boulder and Denver and when it was running it
was packed every day during rush hour, and it was a huge asset for those who have to commute into
Denver daily. When covid hit and commuting traffic was down (and public transit was less safe) it made
sense to push people into driving, but traffic is now picking back up and unless we get the FF2s running
again, it’s going to be a big pain for those of us who commute. As it is the FF1 was packed the other day,
except that it is way slower. I’m sure RTD is facing a budge deficit but if there is any single line that it
makes sense to run, this is it. The bus has historically been packed, the FF1 is packed, and it has to make
money. Thanks, Steve
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: steve
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: hibbs
Work Phone:
Email: shibbs.a@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00446550

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Aug 25 19:57:20 GMT 2021
Case# : 00450481

ADA?:
Date/Time Received:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Logged By: System

Route Details
Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: My wife and I would really love if you could bring back the FF2 ! Thanks, Peter Wolton Principal M
peter.wolton@tensentric.com<mailto:peter.wolton@tensentric.com> [cid:image001.jpg@01D79834.A3FDF590]<http
Court<https://www.google.com/maps/place/2900+Center+Green+Ct,+Boulder,+CO+80301/@40.0276931,-105.2478
Boulder, CO 80301 303 402 0477 main tensentric.com<http://www.tensentric.com/> [A picture containing text Descr
generated]<https://www.tensentric.com/2021/05/07/tensentric-top-workplaces-2021.html> [cid:image003.png@01D7
[cid:image004.jpg@01D79834.A3FDF590] <http://www.facebook.com/tensentric> [cid:image005.jpg@01D79834.A
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 83

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Aug 18 16:03:12 GMT 2021

Logged By: Bev Castro

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 8/16/2021, 3:33 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time: 8/16/2021, 3:30 PM
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: When is RTD bringing back the FF2 route? My commute is very long with all the stops
on the FF1.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone: 3037170097
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: 3037170097
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00440251

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 24 15:14:01 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi there, I was just curious if there is any update on when the FF2 bus from Boulder to
Denver might be back in service? Thanks, Josh
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00450924

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Aug 11 20:03:58 GMT 2021
Case# : 00433226

ADA?:
Date/Time Received:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Logged By: System

Route Details
Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi Folks, When will the ff2 be back?
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 86

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00455792

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 8/27/2021, 7:53 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Bring back the rest of the FF routes. The FF1 is crowded and slow every single day.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Audrey
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Crockett
Work Phone:
Email: audrey.crockett@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 31 22:07:41 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 30 15:49:40 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi - I'm wondering if there's any timeline on when the FF7 might come back online.
Thanks! Megan Ryan, APR VP I Strategic Content Senior Manager BOK
Financial<https://www.bokfinancial.com/> 1600 Broadway, Ste. 1500 Denver 80202 (303) 312-3420 I
Direct (720) 468-2244 I Cell mryan@bokf.com I Email
********************************************************************** The company
reserves the right to amend statements made herein in the event of a mistake. Unless expressly stated
herein to the contrary, only agreements in writing signed by an authorized officer of the Company may be
enforced against it. **********************************************************************
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00456151

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Sep 01 11:59:01 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: Ramiro Fernandez-Aguirre

Date/Time Received: 8/26/2021, 6:17 PM
Route Details

Route: FF1 - Flatiron Flyer (Eastbound) - Jun21

Block: FF 4

Stop: 12509 - S Broadway & Dartmouth Ave (FF1-E) - Jun21

Sched Time: 15:27

Incident Details
AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time: 8/26/2021, 3:27 PM
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: I want to pass my word to the upper management to increase the service in the afternoons
of the bus route FF1 and eventually reinstated the bus route FF2. I took the bus today by 15:27 at
Broadway and Dartmouth and the bus was already packed with students, so it would be more efficient if
you might make it happen to increase the service probably having an extra bus. I am a rider almost for 5
years.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Paul
Home Phone: 7205778657
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Torres
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00455705

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Sep 08 15:38:02 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:
Type:
Location:
Alighting:

Date/Time:
Run No:
Subtype:
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: You need to bring back the FF2 so that every FF1 isn't literally packed to the brim--like a
can of sardines--with everyone spreading COVID around to each other. And don't give me excuses about
driver shortages: there's literally dozens of less-trafficked routes that you can divert a couple drivers from,
and you people know it. You are endangering the safety of both the passengers AND the drivers by having
over-crowded busses and an underserved Boulder-Denver route. Get your shit together, RTD. Surely the
people running the show can't be THIS completely incompetent. -- *C.E. Bezouska*
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Charlie
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Bezouska
Work Phone:
Email: ledzep21@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00463193

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00464410

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 9/3/2021, 5:00 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Bring back FF2 and FF4. FF1 has been packed to the brim every morning and evening.
There needs to be more bus options going between Boulder and Denver. It also causes the FF1 to be very
late to it's stops because of the amount of people getting on and off. I haven't been able to catch my regular
transfer in weeks because of the FF1 being so late in the morning.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Victoria
Home Phone: (865) 337-0467
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Placher
Work Phone:
Email: toriplacher@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Thu Sep 09 18:41:22 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Sep 01 12:28:24 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello RTD Planning and Development, The Flatiron Flyer service previously included the
W line which served Golden to Boulder. Is there any future plans of bringing back this route or another
option that will serve the Golden to Boulder commuters? Thank you much Zach Zach Payne 720.334.9234
zspayne@gmail.com
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Zach
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Payne
Work Phone:
Email: zspayne@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00457289

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Sep 17 16:25:15 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I am reaching out as a Denver resident and regular commuter to Boulder because
of concerns I have with the limited transportation options between Denver and Boulder. The suspension of
the FF2 bus in 2020 made natural sense given that it’s role as a mostly commuter bus option wasn’t
necessary during a global pandemic when most work and school was remote and commuting was halted.
However, as people have returned to in-person jobs and commuting has resumed, the number of people
using the FF1 bus (which is the ONLY direct public transit option between Denver and Boulder right now)
has been astronomical. On an FF1 today (app. 3pm, at Boulder and Regent) I got on a fully packed bus
with standing room only. People were forced to stand for the duration of the ride to Union Station (app. 1
hour) due to the number of people on the bus. I also boarded an FF1 to Denver at 8pm on a Tuesday night
to find it similarly packed. I would like to note that both of these bus experiences, someone with an electric
wheelchair would not have been able to get on because of the number of people standing in the aisles and
wheelchair securement area. The needs of Boulder/Denver commuters is not being met with just the FF1
route. Further, the over-crowded FF1 buses pose serious health risks related to breakthrough spreads of the
delta variant of COVID-19. When buses are packed full, strangers are sitting with their faces less than 2
feet from each other for sometimes over an hour. Before the global pandemic, when both the FF1 and FF2
buses were in full service, sometimes buses would be full as well; thus, you can imagine the anxiety that
commuters and riders must feel when they have not only been funneled into service on only the FF1, BUT
there limited bus options are occurring during a current pandemic. I am asking you to seriously consider
the needs of commuters and tax payers, as well as the health and safety of riders and bus drivers, especially
as we head towards winter when there may be an even higher risk of spread of COVID-19 and other
infections, and when other transit alternatives become limited due to weather challenges. Please reach out
to me with any questions at my email or by calling (608)772-5335. Thank you, Juliana Olsen-Valdez PhD
Student Geological Sciences, CU Boulder
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00478080

First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.h

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 94

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Sep 10 16:48:07 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Sorry to come at you again with a query, Debra. Given how angry she is I thought it
appropriate. For our service folks, is there any thought to reinstating peak hour Metro Ride, or the FF that
went from DUS to Civic Center, given the mall construction? Any other ideas in the works? Best, Shelley
________________________________ From: Patti Glover <ptrcglovr@gmail.com> Sent: Thursday,
September 9, 2021 5:04 PM To: Shelley Cook <shelley.cook@rtd-denver.com> Subject: Re: Train security
So now the Mallride is a disaster. They have the mall torn up with flaggers for the shuttle. I waited 15
minutes for one to leave from 1 block away and then there were 3 more right behind it. That's helpful!
RTD refuses to reinstate the Metro Ride so we are stuck with this crap to get down to US . I have come to
hate this agency. They are not commuter friendly. Feel free to share with the other board members.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Shelley
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Cook
Work Phone:
Email: shelley.cook@rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00477134

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 13 17:54:17 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, Will RTD please consider bringing back the FF7 in October? I've asked a few
times to have this route returned and I saw on the news today that several lines have been reinstated but I
did not see the FF7. I work downtown and as of today there is a large number of employees that will be
returning to the office in October. Please bring back the FF7. Thank you, Alison
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Alison
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Sullivan
Work Phone:
Email: imarebeldotie@outlook.com

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00466849

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Sep 15 18:42:28 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi! The job market is improving dramatically and I recently got a good position in
Denver. I was excited to commute via FF4 because it stops at my office, but was dismayed to find that it's
currently not running. Reinstating FF4 service would be a game-changer for me, otherwise I'll have to
drive or take the FF1 + mallride + walk to get to my office. That option is nearly twice as long as the FF4,
so you can see why I'm so excited to get that service back. Thanks for reading, and I hope that the FF4
returns during the next service update.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00477563

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00467863

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 9/7/2021, 7:33 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please bring back the FF4. It’s been a year and a half and people are commuting again. Or
give those coming fro further away a discount on the FF1 which we now have to take and it takes much
much longer.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Sommer
Home Phone: (301) 502-7696
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Wiss
Work Phone:
Email: sommeraw@gmail.com

Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 13 15:54:16 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00466813

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 9/3/2021, 11:46 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Have the FF7 start again to Civic Center. Perhaps run Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
every half hour between 5:15 am and 7:45 am and 3:00 pm to 5:45 pm. It was an extremely popular bus
with those working near Civic Center Station. Since many government employees have a flex schedule
don't run the bus on Monday's and Friday's. More people would ride the bus, if they could bypass Union
Station.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Linda
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Bekuhrs
Work Phone:
Email: abekuhrs@comcast.net

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 13 17:47:25 GMT 2021

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Sep 14 14:41:25 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: Sprout Integration

Date/Time Received: 9/9/2021, 4:44 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: (Sep 8, 2021 5:32 PM MDT): @RideRTD when are more bus routes for FF1/3/etc being
added+ train runs? Buses are ridiculously busy and seem to always run late
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Terb
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Ferguson
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00474649

Packet Pg. 100

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Sep 17 16:23:09 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I am reaching out as a Denver resident and regular commuter to Boulder because
of concerns I have with the limited transportation options between Denver and Boulder. The suspension of
the FF2 bus in 2020 made natural sense given that it’s role as a mostly commuter bus option wasn’t
necessary during a global pandemic when most work and school was remote and commuting was halted.
However, as people have returned to in-person jobs and commuting has resumed, the number of people
using the FF1 bus (which is the ONLY direct public transit option between Denver and Boulder right now)
has been astronomical. On an FF1 today (app. 3pm, at Boulder and Regent) I got on a fully packed bus
with standing room only. People were forced to stand for the duration of the ride to Union Station (app. 1
hour) due to the number of people on the bus. I also boarded an FF1 to Denver at 8pm on a Tuesday night
to find it similarly packed. I would like to note that both of these bus experiences, someone with an electric
wheelchair would not have been able to get on because of the number of people standing in the aisles and
wheelchair securement area. The needs of Boulder/Denver commuters is not being met with just the FF1
route. Further, the over-crowded FF1 buses pose serious health risks related to breakthrough spreads of the
delta variant of COVID-19. When buses are packed full, strangers are sitting with their faces less than 2
feet from each other for sometimes over an hour. Before the global pandemic, when both the FF1 and FF2
buses were in full service, sometimes buses would be full as well; thus, you can imagine the anxiety that
commuters and riders must feel when they have not only been funneled into service on only the FF1, BUT
there limited bus options are occurring during a current pandemic. I am asking you to seriously consider
the needs of commuters and tax payers, as well as the health and safety of riders and bus drivers, especially
as we head towards winter when there may be an even higher risk of spread of COVID-19 and other
infections, and when other transit alternatives become limited due to weather challenges. Please reach out
to me with any questions at my email or by calling (608)772-5325. Thank you, Juliana Olsen-Valdez PhD
Student Geological Sciences, CU Boulder
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00478086

Date Closed:
Customer Information
Packet Pg. 101

First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.h

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 102

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 27 14:20:55 GMT 2021

Logged By: Cali Vialpando

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 9/21/2021, 9:31 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: I would like to get the FF7 back on the schedule.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Antonio
Home Phone: (720) 377-8123
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Torres
Work Phone:
Email: antonio.torrescarmona@state.co.us

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00491419

Packet Pg. 103

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00480021

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 9/13/2021, 6:28 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time: 9/13/2021, 5:54 AM
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding: union station
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: This new schedule is terrible. Its is impossible for me the reide the E line and catch the
FF1 on time. No consideration or thought was out into connecting these lines. I know i will just get the
usual auto reply but I tried anyway.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Matthew
Home Phone: 720-839-6282
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Perkins
Work Phone:
Email: mattperkins86@comcast.net

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Sep 17 17:37:19 GMT 2021

Packet Pg. 104

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 27 14:15:19 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I commute daily from Denver to Boulder and the FF2 bus used to be a huge life
saver. The ff1 is becoming so packed with too many riders. Please restore the express FF2 bus !! Natalie
Casey (630) 303-4571
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00491220

Packet Pg. 105

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 27 13:48:35 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello. I was hoping to provide feedback on the route times for Flatiron Flyer 5- Boulder
to Anschutz. Leaving Boulder in the am for a shift at the hospital has three great route times- All arriving
before 9am and two before 7 which is ideal for longer/ earlier shifts. Unfortunately, the return trip is very
limited and doesn’t accommodate those of us who work longer hours at the hospital (10/12 hour shifts).
The lastest bus to Leave the hospital area is 515pm. Which is challenging for us working longer shifts. An
additional bus leaving at 615pm would be ideal and help decrease traffic on the roads. Additionally, a perk
of working at the hospitals is receiving and paying for a Eco pass however due to the bus timings this
doesn’t allow me to use them. Thanks and would love to answer any additional questions. Meghan
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This
e-mail, including any attachments, is for the sole use of Childrens Hospital Colorado and the intended
recipient(s). It may contain confidential and privileged information or may otherwise be protected by law.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure, or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message and any
attachment thereto. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00483811

Packet Pg. 106

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Oct 04 14:30:56 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi RTD, After two extremely late (20 min+) buses this week, I urge you to please bring
back the FF2 bus. The FF1 has been full (often to standing room only) to/from Boulder Downtown Station
and Denver Union Station during rush hour commuting hours. We are jammed to the brim and tired of the
lack of frequency (and multiple stops). A bus every 15 min -- that is inevitably delayed due to traffic & full
busloads of people - is unfair to those of us who need to be at work or at various places on time when the
schedule says we should be. I urge you to please take a look at your ridership levels on the FF1 and please
bring back the FF2. In the very least, please run the FF1 more frequently than every 15 min during rush
hour times. Thanks, Raina
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Raina
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Taillon
Work Phone:
Email: raina.taillon@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00497755

Packet Pg. 107

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Oct 04 14:52:22 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: To Whom It May Concern: Please add FF2 back to the schedule. CU Boulder campus is
back open full time for students and staff. Why is it delayed coming back? Thank you Margie Rodgers
901-359-2360
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Margie
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Rodgers
Work Phone:
Email: rodgers.margie@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00498348

Packet Pg. 108

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Sep 01 16:07:00 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Dear RTD, As part of the January 2022 Service Changes, please consider adding back the
FF2 express service from Boulder to Denver, even if it has a reduced frequency of every 30 minutes during
rush hour. This would give better evidence on ridership for this route to justify future changes during the
recovery. Thank you for your consideration, Travis Duea Get Outlook for
Android<https://aka.ms/AAb9ysg>
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00462719

Packet Pg. 109

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 27 15:04:55 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I would like to urge the RTD to reinstate the FF2 route between Boulder and
Denver as soon as possible. Thanks
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00494503

Packet Pg. 110

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 27 15:02:43 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: I've been turned away from the FF1 three times now because they were too full to accept
any more bike passengers! What gives? This never used to happen, but now that everybody has to use the
same flatiron flyer service, I can't get on with my bike. Please add ff2 and ff4 back in so I can get home.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00494452

Packet Pg. 111

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Oct 04 14:57:48 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Dear RTD Service Change Team, When I initially started commuting from Boulder to
Denver by bus in August 2021, ridership was low and I could see why you had not brought back express
service. Since Labor Day, however, I have been on multiple FF1s that were standing-room only in the
evenings. Your data should bear out that there is sufficient demand during peak commuting hours to justify
bringing back a service that reduces our commute times, in my case by 15 minutes. That is an amount of
time that would allow me to bring my son to school every day, instead of relying on my elderly mother to
provide that support for our family. Secondly, I was on a bus twice this week with a driver who clearly had
little-to-no navigational training. On the first ride, passengers took turns directing her to each stations.
They expressed to me that they were taking on this role out of *fear*. On the second trip, she had no such
good samaritans, and she missed the exits. She pulled over on the side of U.S. 36 and the exiting/entering
passengers were forced to cross a lane of traffic (the US. 36 off-ramp) to get to the bus. This was
dangerous and irresponsible of RTD, and should not occur for so many reasons! I am a former government
worker who knows that people mostly write with complaints, but I am writing to try to be helpful and to
request (based on what I've written above) two very specific amendments to the January 2022 proposal: 1.
Return of the FF2 2. Mandatory navigation training for all new bus drivers that recognizes high turnover
rates during COVID, including mentors who will ride the route with them *at least once* to teach them
how to navigate to the proper exit lanes Thank you! Sarah Boulder, CO resident Denver, CO worker
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00498688

Packet Pg. 112

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.h

Packet Pg. 113

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Oct 05 15:02:30 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Dear RTD, I have used your BX and more recently the FF2 to get to work near Union
Station from Boulder for 11 years, but now that the FF2 has been discontinued, I’m finding that the gaps
between buses are too large and the extra stops too time consuming for me to get to work in a timely
manner. I’ve been driving this semester and getting to work in about 45 minutes door to door, but the few
weeks I tried the FF1 my full commute was taking about 90 minutes door to door and there was a lot of
unpredictability. Twice I showed up on time for a bus that had already left, but then waited 20-25 minutes
for the next bus who had been running late due to a wheel chair. Similarly I have colleagues who normally
take the LX from Longmont to Denver and they are also driving to work due to that route no longer
existing. I’m worried that you are measuring ridership based off of current numbers, but those of us who
are driving would love to get back on the bus if it was running often enough and if expresses were
reinstated. Finally, the FF1 bus stops leaving Union Station regularly after 5:55(?), making me need to
leave work at a very specific time when I’d rather be able to leave work when I’m done working. Isn’t
5:00pm-7:00pm some of the busiest times of the day from Denver to Boulder? Why not give us more buses
at that time when the ridership is at its peak, lines long, and standing room only the norm. I realize that the
ridership isn’t where you’d like it to be, but if you build it, we will come! Thanks for your consideration,
Keah Schuenemann -- Keah Schuenemann, PhD Director of General Studies & Professor of Meteorology
Metropolitan State University of Denver (303)615-0780 |
kschuene@msudenver.edu<mailto:kschuene@msudenver.edu> | Office: Science 2018 Pronouns:
She/Her/Hers Earth and Atmospheric Science Department:
https://www.msudenver.edu/earth-atmospheric-sciences/meteorology/ General Studies Program in the
Office of Curriculum, Academic Effectiveness and Policy Development:
https://www.msudenver.edu/general-studies/
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00503009

Date Closed:
Customer Information
Packet Pg. 114

First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

2.12.E.h

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Packet Pg. 115

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Sep 28 14:58:11 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I'm writing about the Flatiron Flyer routes that were suspended during the
pandemic and haven't yet been restarted. Please consider restarting the FF4, along with the other express
routes from Denver to Boulder. I used these buses often, and would take the FF4 at least weekly prior to
the pandemic. Now that there is only the FF1, it is a much slower trip and is often not worth taking the bus
because it's so slow. The FF1 has been crowded lately, and it doesn't go to Civic Center Station. Please
start the FF4 again! This would help reduce traffic and emissions from vehicles. Thank you, Audrey
Wheeler Boulder, CO
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00493592

Packet Pg. 116

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 27 14:33:28 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi! I recently gota job in Denver and started taking the FF1 every day. I'd love if you
reinstated the ff4 or ff2, as this would make my commute much easier / more convenient. Thanks for your
consideration. Get Outlook for Android<https://aka.ms/AAb9ysg>
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00492786

Packet Pg. 117

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Oct 12 16:24:38 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello RTD, Thank you all for taking the time to explain the complex nature of schedule
changes. A couple of observations: - My understanding is that to re-establish FF2 service (and/or increase
FF1 above 20%), RTD has to go through the Title VI process and that the look back is to the current
schedule and not pre-Covid. Do you believe this will be an additional hurdle or should it be procedural as
you would only be catching up to service levels approved in the last? - Beyond waiting for a spaceship to
show up with 100 operators bearing CDL's, what can RTD do with your $700MM of Federal money to
boost wages/incentives to draw people in. The current plan is not working and waiting for the next
recession is not a plan either? - Out of interest, why were the FF routes so drastically cut (about 65%
during rush hour) with no flexibility to add back with demand as a caveat of a bigger change? Many
thanks, David David Martus +1.720.480.2975 (M)
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: David
Home Phone: (720) 480-2975
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Martus
Work Phone:
Email: dmartus@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00510307

Packet Pg. 118

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Oct 05 15:29:57 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi there, I reviewed the proposed changes for the upcoming service changes. I saw that
the FF4 will still not be reinstated. Would RTD consider having the FF1 service both Union Station and
Civic Center? Taking the FF1 adds two additional bus trips to my trips into Denver (have to take a bus to
connect to the FF1, then another to connect from Union Station to other lightrails that don’t go through
there like H and D). As someone with a mobility disorder, that is really difficult in terms of time and
energy. In addition, some of the FF1 buses are incredibly crowded (ex Monday night going from Boulder
to Denver a couple weeks ago had every seat full and some people standing). Several people on most buses
I take do not wear masks. I felt a little better about that when the buses were less crowded, but am currently
feeling more wary about riding RTD during the pandemic due to higher ridership and low mask
enforcement. Thank you for your time and consideration, Shelby
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Shelby
Home Phone: 720-234-3391
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Bates
Work Phone:
Email: shelbybates4@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00505503

Packet Pg. 119

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Oct 12 17:06:04 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, Can you please bring back the FF2 during weekday rush hour? Traffic on 36 is nuts
again and the FF1 doesn't cut it. Even a couple busses in the am and pm rush hour would be awesome. I
would schedule my work day around them. Sincerely, Brad Dober, Ph.D. Long Wavelength Team
Quantum Sensors Group NIST Boulder Office: (303) 497-6162 Cell: (262) 949-4668
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00510710

Packet Pg. 120

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Oct 12 16:28:14 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please bring back the FF6 and FF2. I only have these two options for getting to work in
under an hour. The FF1 takes me almost 2 hours to reach work every day. Thank you, Morgan
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Morgan
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Every
Work Phone:
Email: mevery25@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00510905

Packet Pg. 121

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Oct 12 16:21:01 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please bring back the FF2 and FF6. FF1 is very inconvenient and crowded with the
students back. Thank you for your consideration. Aaron Sent from my iPhone
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments: Will be attached to January 22 Service change public comments.
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00510451

Packet Pg. 122

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 02 15:12:27 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Dear Mr. Williams, Thank you for your message. I agree with you that the GS bus is an
important connection between the Federal Center, through NREL and Golden, and on to Boulder. In spite
of many requests for reinstatement of the service, RTD was unable to do it for the September service
change. Please stay in touch so that when public comment for the January changes opens (sometime in
August), you can add your thoughts. In the meantime, I am copying RTD planners on the message.
Sincerely, Marjorie Sloan District M Representative Regional Transportation District Board of Directors
720-243-2405 From: Dave Williams <d.williams.co.net@gmail.com> Sent: Wednesday, July 28, 2021
3:03 PM To: Marjorie Sloan <Marjorie.Sloan@rtd-denver.com> Subject: bring back the GS bus I rode the
GS bus from the Fed Center to Boulder for years. I would like to see this route restored soon. Dave
Williams Lakewood
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Marjorie
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Sloan
Work Phone:
Email: marjorie.sloan@rtd-denver.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00418125

Packet Pg. 123

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 09 21:36:54 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Dear RTD, I am writing to urge you to reinstate the RTD bus route GS between Golden
and Boulder. I used this route for regular commuting to my job at School of Mines. Douglas Nychka
Professor, Applied Mathematics and Statistics, Director, Data Science Masters Program Colorado School
of Mines Senior Scientist Emeritus, National Center for Atmospheric Research Cell 3037253199 Zoom
https://mines.zoom.us/j/5797557040 ORCID https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1387-3356 Github Home Page
https://dnychka.github.io/ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- I will
sometimes send e-mails out of hours; I do not expect others to do so.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00429527

Packet Pg. 124

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 09 21:42:55 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I live in Boulder but attend the Colorado School of Mines in Golden. Before
COVID, I took the GS line down to Golden everyday. Starting August 23, I will be again commuting down
to Golden every day, and I know many students in a similar situation. As you begin to bring back COVID
affected bus lines, I encourage you to reinstate the GS line quickly. It would make a big difference for
Mines students, professors, and NREL employees - many of whom live in Boulder! Thank you for your
time, Will Daniels -- Will Daniels Colorado School of Mines B.S. Engineering Physics 2019 M.S.
Statistics 2021
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00429673

Packet Pg. 125

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Aug 13 13:51:49 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:
Type:
Location:
Alighting:

Date/Time:
Run No:
Subtype:
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi, I recently moved to Colorado and will be commuting between Boulder and Golden for
my job at the National Renewable Energy Lab. I saw that you previously had a bus route between Boulder
and Golden, and I was wondering if you are planning to bring it back. I have spoken with many of my
coworkers who also rely on this service. A bus route between Boulder and Golden at least during rush hour
a few days a week would make a huge difference to me and many others. I hope you are able to bring back
this route. Thank you for your consideration. -Hannah
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00432916

Packet Pg. 126

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 16 15:45:27 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I hope this finds you well. As a Boulder resident who works in Golden, I'd like to
voice my support for bringing back the GS route. This is an essential route to both communities, as it
expands work opportunities for residents of both areas and allows environmentally and economically
friendly transit that is desperately needed at this time. Can you please let me know when you plan to bring
the GS route back? Thank you for your consideration. Best, Ryan
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00438549

Packet Pg. 127

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 23 14:32:38 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, I have not ridden the bus since before the Covid pandemic started. However, I will
be commuting again to Boulder up 93, and was dismayed to see the GS (between Golden and Boulder up
93) is no longer in service. Are there any plans to return this route to service? Thank You, Jordan
Perr-Sauer Sent from my iPhone
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00449095

Packet Pg. 128

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00451906

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 8/24/2021, 2:36 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: I live in Broomfield and would love to commute to Golden for school on the Bus. I hope
you bring back the GS route.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Reed
Home Phone: (801) 793-3346
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Robins
Work Phone:
Email: reederobins@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Aug 25 19:54:45 GMT 2021

Packet Pg. 129

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Aug 25 20:02:57 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: Sprout Integration

Date/Time Received: 8/25/2021, 6:59 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Twitter, Public Conversation Patrick Morrissey PT @PJMorrisseyPT (Aug 23, 2021 6:07
PM MDT): Hey @RideRTD How about bringing back a useful service in the GS line???? Traffic on 93 is
getting heavier and gas is getting more expensive. Lil’ help here?
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Patrick
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Morrissey PT
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00452677

Packet Pg. 130

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Sep 07 12:40:24 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please bring back the GS bus route. The FF1 is starting to get overly crowded every
afternoon with people even having to stand. Your busses are getting full which means ridership is up, it's
time to bring back the GS. Thank you. Sincerely Kristian Brower
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00454174

Packet Pg. 131

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Sep 01 12:24:24 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please bring back the GS, there are a bunch of us that would really like for this route to be
reinstated. Now that school has started back up at CU-Boulder I know that there would be several people
on each of the north and south routes. Thank for you for your consideration. Eric
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Eric
Home Phone: (720) 550-9139
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Wright
Work Phone:
Email: ezw75@msn.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00456347

Packet Pg. 132

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Sep 27 14:29:08 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: For your comments. Thank you, Marjorie From: Austin Hallock <austin@spore.build>
Sent: Tuesday, September 21, 2021 10:44 AM To: Marjorie Sloan <Marjorie.Sloan@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: GS line updates WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The
sender could not be validated and may not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any
information or links contained in this email. Hi Marjorie! I wanted to reach out to see if there is any update
on the GS line from Boulder to Golden. I run a business in downtown Golden and we just hired someone
who lives in Boulder and needs to commute via public transit. Are there any plans to reinstate the GS line?
And if not, do you know of any good alternatives (what I'm seeing is a ~2 hour commute that goes through
Union station) Thank you! Austin
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Marjorie
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Sloan
Work Phone:
Email: marjorie.sloan@rtd-denver.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00492555

Packet Pg. 133

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00399006

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 7/19/2021, 7:06 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi, I would like to know when route 128 will be available? Or let me know what options I
have to ride bus from stop 132 and Westlake, Broomfield I need to ride this route to get the FF1 to
Boulder.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Veronica
Home Phone: (303) 960-6644
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Murillo
Work Phone:
Email: veronica.murillo@bvsd.org

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Thu Jul 22 15:11:10 GMT 2021

Packet Pg. 134

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00412099

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 7/28/2021, 6:09 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE extend the hours of the AB1. It is crazy that there is no
public transportation option to boulder after 11:20 at one of the soon to be consistently busiest airports in
the country. That bus is always packed every time I ride it.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Spencer
Home Phone: (201) 675-1362
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Kates
Work Phone:
Email: spencerkates@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 09 21:27:59 GMT 2021

Packet Pg. 135

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00426836

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 8/6/2021, 12:54 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Should have left 48 route alone when it was going to platte garage. And the 8 should still
be going to the 48th and fox station for the b and g line. 19 should still stop at pecos junction station. Other
wise those stations shouldn’t been built if it’s not going to use by bus system. There nothing near the pecos
junction station
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Vincent
Home Phone: (720) 301-4523
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Mineault
Work Phone:
Email: vmineault@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Aug 11 13:56:57 GMT 2021

Packet Pg. 136

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00429545

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 8/9/2021, 10:02 AM
Route Details

Route: BOLT - Boulder / Longmont (Southbound) - Jun21
Stop: 18095 - Highway 119 & Niwot Rd PnR (BOLT-S) - Jun21

Block: AB 8
Sched Time: 08:40

Incident Details
AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time: 8/9/2021, 8:41 AM
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location: Niwot
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding: Niwot
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Denied entry to bus for 4th time in 2 weeks because no room for bikes. Please increase
the route during rush hour.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: David
Home Phone: 303-717-3945
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Cohn
Work Phone:
Email: david.cohn@colorado.edu

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 09 21:33:38 GMT 2021

Packet Pg. 137

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Aug 13 14:38:21 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi, My kids go to Peak to Peak Charter school in Lafayette. They would like to be able to
catch the bus home from school. We would like to request a route schedule change for the JUMP to pick up
at the Merlin Drive stop at ~3:20 pm going westbound beginning August 17th when school starts. After
talking to one of your helpful associates, it sounds like the Jump route will change from once an hour to
once every half hour - which would be perfect! - but that doesn't start until Sept 12 (and is only a proposed
change). We would like to request that this change take effect Aug 17th when school starts rather than a
month into the school year. Could you please reply to me to let me know if this is possible? I know a lot of
families would be very appreciative. Thanks, Meredith Hughes
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Meredith
Home Phone: (808) 351-8334
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Hughes
Work Phone:
Email: mbsp96@hotmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00429935

Packet Pg. 138

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00430706

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 8/10/2021, 8:10 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Are you going to start the 122x soon or the free ride express that travels on 17th and 18th.
It is very inconvenient to ride the shuttle in the morning or afternoon. Also many riders in the N line do
Not wear masks. They should be allowed to board the train!
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Fran
Home Phone: (303) 919-7656
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Aragon Eaves
Work Phone:
Email: faeaves@aol.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Aug 13 15:09:37 GMT 2021

Packet Pg. 139

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Aug 13 13:11:26 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:
Type:
Location:
Alighting:

Date/Time:
Run No:
Subtype:
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hi, I recently moved to Longmont and was told that the bus route J was a good bus to take
into Boulder and straight to the CU Campus. However, I can't seem to find any information on the route
online (times/stops) and wasn't sure if it was discontinued? I tried to find information online about whether
it had been discontinued but there is no information. Would there happen to be another bus that goes from
Longmont straight to campus that I'm simply missing? Thanks, Ashley Muggli (she/her) Anthropology
Assistant Collections Manager University of Colorado Museum of Natural History 303.910.9454 |
Ashley.Muggli@colorado.edu | AshleyMuggli.com<http://www.ashleymuggli.com>
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments: Email was sent
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00432986

Packet Pg. 140

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 16 15:07:55 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Hello, Unfortunately, I was unable to attend the last couple of gatherings/calls to see if
there might be restored access to the 55th Street Office Park from Denver by the FF6 or 206 routes. Please
let me know if either of these routes will be restored or renewed at some point in the future, since currently,
there are no options that are convenient or reasonable to access office park at 55th Street. I appreciate any
information you might be able to provide on this particular topic. Thanks, -George
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: George
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Hudson
Work Phone:
Email: gnhudson33@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00433430

Packet Pg. 141

2.12.E.h

Case# : 00434399

ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received: 8/12/2021, 7:37 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Is it possible for the #12 Northbound bus stop at Pennsylvania and Hampden be returned
since the building construction completed? Last year or so ago the stop was moved east, up a high hill
while the building was being completed. Elderly and disabled (including myself) neighbors on
Pennsylvania street found it difficult to use that stop. That is why I'm asking for the return of the
Northbound stop at Pennsylvania and Hampden. Thank you!
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Lisa
Home Phone: Confidential
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Jackson
Work Phone:
Email: lisajackson003@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 17 15:56:11 GMT 2021

Packet Pg. 142

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Fri Aug 13 15:55:16 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: Jose Perez-Barron

Date/Time Received: 8/12/2021, 12:08 PM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: I am calling to make a complaint about the bus service in Boulder. I attempted to use this
service and I found out that the Bolt bus is running once an hour. It used to be every 30 minutes. With the
way the buses are going now, the service is useless for me. I won’t use the RTD service; I can’t use the
service. The frequency is the big problem as well as the fact the during weekdays and Saturdays the first
departure is 7:37 a.m. and on Sundays, the first departure is 6:36 a.m. That does not make sense to me.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone: 3038751565
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: 3038751565
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00435079

Packet Pg. 143

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Wed Aug 18 16:14:20 GMT 2021

Logged By: System

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 8/16/2021, 10:17 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Need additional bus to stop at Peak to Peak in the morning and a stop at dismissal time
near Peak to Peak Charter :)
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: sheila
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: solis
Work Phone:
Email: sheilacsolis@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00437338

Packet Pg. 144

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 17 16:35:35 GMT 2021

Logged By: System

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 8/16/2021, 10:19 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: We would like to request a stop be added at Merlin Dr and East Spaulding in between
2:57 and 3:57 PM, so that our kids can take the bus home from Peak to Peak High School.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Melia
Home Phone: (303) 981-4444
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Heimbuck
Work Phone:
Email: mdheimbuck@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00437371

Packet Pg. 145

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 17 16:45:33 GMT 2021

Logged By: System

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 8/16/2021, 10:19 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: My son goes to Peak to Peak and it would be great if there could be an additonal stop at
Merlin and E Spaulding midway between the 3:00 and 4:00 stops.
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Stan
Home Phone: (303) 909-1709
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Ajemian
Work Phone:
Email: sajemian@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00437378

Packet Pg. 146

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 16 15:33:08 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: To whom it may concern, My Daughter is a student at Peak to Peak charter school in
Lafayette. We rely on the RTD Jump to get her back to Boulder. The stop times, at Merlin and Spaulding,
do not align with the school schedule. The current stop times are 2:57 and 3:57. I would like to request a
new stop time that would align better with the school's schedule. 3:30 would be perfect. Thank you Keith
Biggs
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00437463

Packet Pg. 147

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Tue Aug 17 16:52:07 GMT 2021

Logged By: System

ADA?:
Date/Time Received: 8/16/2021, 10:20 AM
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Please add a stop at Merlin dr and E Spaulding between 3-4 so that my child may ride the
JUMP home from school. Thank you
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments: Email was sent
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First: Tara
Home Phone: (303) 589-6979
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last: Keogh
Work Phone:
Email: tarabaker13@gmail.com

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00437464

Packet Pg. 148

2.12.E.h

R.111 - RTD Customer Service Report - Mon Aug 16 15:29:19 GMT 2021
ADA?:

Logged By: System

Date/Time Received:
Route Details

Route:
Stop:

Block:
Sched Time:
Incident Details

AAR Client ID:
Vehicle No:

Date/Time:
Run No:

Type: Complaint
Location:
Alighting:

Subtype: SERVICE PLANNING CONCERN
Boarding:
Employee Name: , #

Incident Details: Peak to Peak Charter School in Lafayette relies on RTD to bring kids to school and back
home daily. It is a K-12 school in BVSD but because it is a Charter School, no yellow bus services are
available. The recent route change effectively eliminated service to numerous students. The new stop time
is 2:57 pm. School is release at 3:00. Next stop time is at 3:57. It is a health and safety issue to leave
children alone at a bus stop for almost an hour thus rendering your services useless to many children who’s
only transportation to school is RTD, from as far away as Boulder. Please correct this change immediately.
School start next week and parents are panicked. I know I don’t want my child standing at a bus stop
outside the sketchy trailer park a minute longer than necessary let alone for almost an hour! Please Help!
This is a very big deal. Sincerely, Bridgett Chacon Biggs Peak to Peak Parent Sent from Mail for Windows
Customer Commentary:
Investigator Comments:
Department: SERVICE PLANNING & SCHEDULING
Date Closed:
Customer Information
First:
Home Phone:
Cell Phone:
Response Requested?: false

Last:
Work Phone:
Email:

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment H - RTD Customer Service Report (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service Changes)

Case# : 00437501

Packet Pg. 149

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

1 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

2.12.E.i
January 22 Public Comments
Displaying records 1 - 157

Contact Name

Subject

Status

Priority

Case Owner Alias Date/Time Closed

RTD Bus Routes for Students of Green Mountain High School

Closed

Medium

KDoub

00470488

Magreevy,
Patrick

RTD needs to correct the 40 or H Line to connect better at Colorado
Station! I have complained about this same connection for the last year. I
just get off the 40 SB at Colorado Station and watch the H Line SB pulling
out at 7:34pm, so I have to wait till

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/8/2021, 9:31
AM

00471531

Hathorn, Ryan

Standing Load: : What kind of transportation company are you? It’s a
holiday, the busiest the airport has been since maybe pre-pandemic and
you’re only running two cars every 30 minutes and it’s only 21:00?! Just
because you’re the only rapid transit to D

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/9/2021, 6:10
AM

Route P

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/9/2021, 7:45
AM

7209652062

There is more than an hour wait for the 31 on 92nd and Federal after 4:40. I
have to wait until almost 6:00 for the next bus. This needs to be fixed. I
Closed
have to wait almost an hour and a half.

Standard KDoub

9/9/2021, 6:16
AM

3038701661

What do families do to get to the Children's Museum 2121 Children's
Museum Dr or the Downtown Aquarium, 700 Water St if you don't have the
route 10 going over there anymore? You need a bus to get to these big
venues.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/8/2021, 6:13
AM

Is the 122X going to return?

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 10:33
AM

I want to complain that my route changed. I was waiting for the Jump from
Erie to Boulder and found out it does not run right now.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 10:28
AM

Kirsten M. Viers, Colorado Springs Resident & U.S. Citizen: Former
Applicant of RTD, an Opinion

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/17/2021, 10:31
AM

00470236

00471595

00472647

00472730

00472833
00473685

3038957671

00474317

9/15/2021, 11:43
AM

00474649

Ferguson, Terb

Service Planning

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/14/2021, 8:42
AM

00475065

Sewell, Aileen

Thank you so much for adding more buses to the Bolt route! It is so
wonderful and we are VERY GRATEFUL! Thank you. Thank you. Thank
you.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 10:36
AM

00476139

@rtdbusfanner,
Joe

Service Planning: Hey, @RideRTD So, the Extra trip for kids at Denver
South on the 11 is nice. But on Thursdays, we get out at 2:40.. So on
Thursdays, we have a million people packed into a Gillig Haha. Maybe
change that?

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/13/2021, 6:46
AM

00476210

7205251893

I am calling about bus 65. At the bus stop at Monaco Pkwy & Exposition
Closed
Ave, the bus is scheduled few minutes after school gets out at George
Washington High School. We still must cross to the other side of Monaco to

Standard KDoub

9/15/2021, 12:29
PM

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

Case Number

Number of records

Packet Pg. 150
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

2 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

2.12.E.i

00476345

RTD 24: This route is currently running once an hour. As a person who
works on University and has a kid that goes to school on University, this
really is inconvenient. Is there a plan to change this route back to twice an
hour? If not, I hope it can be pr

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/20/2021, 9:31
AM

00476390

The level of service/headway that is NOT being provided by RTD to/from
one of the top 5 highest passenger traffic international airports in the
country is abysmal and embarrassing. I realize you have a driver shortage,
but there are just a few places that

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/13/2021, 7:36
AM

00476719

Clanton,
Matthew

I hope you are having some good night sleep, but for the rest of us that
work while you sleep and ride your bus and trains in the morning hours,
Closed
may I make this clear who ever made the decision to change the bus routes
like this should have to work like u

Standard KDoub

9/13/2021, 8:06
AM

00476772

Ortiz, Jose

You all should consider having your 7:04 AM trip on Route 12 northbound,
going all the way to Northglenn

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/10/2021, 9:56
AM

00477134

Cook, Shelley

Fw: Train security

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/13/2021, 8:00
AM

00477418

LaBella, Mary
Lou

When are you going to the route 80 running again in the area of Zuni &
82nd Pl? Will you ever run the Federal Heights FlexRide on weekends?

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/15/2021, 12:32
PM

00477456

Langer, Mike

None of the routes in Thornton coordinate with each other. I have to catch
the 93L, the N and the 120L to get where I'm going and I end up having to
wait an hour for the next bus because of the way they are scheduled.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/15/2021, 11:58
AM

Niazi, Aiden

Make Route #21 go past Pierson & Jewell and continue all the way to
Federal Center Station to assist Green Mountain High School & Dunstan
Middle School students. This reinstatement could also make things more
convenient and less of a hassle—anyway th

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 8:04
AM

00477563

Flatiron Flyer service

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/15/2021, 12:44
PM

00477787

I have a disabled son that has been using RTD for twenty-five years once
he was taught how to ride the bus. His host family and I were not aware
that the Jump from and to Erie had changed till come Tuseday when Peter
got off work at 12pm and the bus never

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 11:36
AM

00478080

FF2 Bus Service

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 10:26
AM

00478086

FF2 Bus Service

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 10:24
AM

00479180

Why doesn't the 205 run further down Lookout to Gunbarrel
North/Gunbarrel Estates/Boulder Country Club/Heatherwood. We have a
family friend who has ASD-1 and does not drive and is unable to get to our
home without walking 30 minutes from the King Soo

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/20/2021, 3:56
PM

00479288

Hello RTD, today I have a suggestion that can improve ridership, customer
satisfaction, and convenience. My suggestion is for you guys to reinstate

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 8:21
AM

00477549

Linke, Eleanor

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

be able to make the bus and the time th

Packet Pg. 151
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

3 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

2.12.E.i

00480021

Perkins,
Matthew

This new schedule is terrible. Its is impossible for me the reide the E line
and catch the FF1 on time. No consideration or thought was out into
connecting these lines. I know i will just get the usual auto reply but I tried
anyway.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 11:38
AM

00480059

Perkins,
Matthew

Back in June you changed the schedule to the E line so we literally had to
run in order to catch the connecting FF1, now you changed the departure
Closed
time for the FF1, so it is impossible to catch that bus and make it to work on
time. Thanks

Standard KDoub

9/20/2021, 10:18
AM

00480252

East HS bus route on #20

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/20/2021, 3:50
PM

00481480

Hello. I'm wondering if we'll ever go back to pre-covid bus schedules and
times? Every bus in the morning I get on is packed full and I feel not as
safe. It's also frustrating that they're 30 - 60 minutes apart. I ride the 20.
Thank you.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/20/2021, 10:17
AM

00481517

I got on the bus at 17th and Colorado . The bus is standing room only. I
showed my fare and had to board from the back door. RTD needs to put
out another bus to accommodate all the people. There is a school tripper,
but not as many people on that bus. The

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/14/2021, 12:55
PM

00481698

Updated maps to reflect service chabges

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/17/2021, 9:59
AM

I was previously a rider on the LD2 from Erie to Union Station. I see that the
route has been removed and the only option to get to Union Station arrives
Closed
at 7:38 am. As commuters return to the office, I would recommend a bus
that arrives at Union

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 12:42
PM

00482631

Thank you!

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 12:21
PM

00482687

Regards Route 21 and the recent change of venue with the Route 21
eastbound evening shift change, why not stick to the location of Evans
Station. Doesn't that make more sense time wise as well as rider
convenience to timely transfer that time of day?

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 12:47
PM

00483018

Have bus 21 end at Alameda pkwy and Green Mountain dr instead of
Pierson St and Jewell ave

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/20/2021, 10:08
AM

Why isn’t route 21 going to Federal Center when school for the Lakewood
area has already started and neither the flex ride nor the school buses are
assisting in a helpful manner?

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/20/2021, 4:21
PM

00483054

Run route 21 to 2nd & Van Gordon at p.m peaks on weekends.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/20/2021, 4:33
PM

00483106

Request for more frequent service on DASH bus

Closed

Medium

9/20/2021, 9:58
AM

00482087

00483024

Demos,
Chelsea

Niazi, Khan

KDoub

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

route 21's pre-Covid route to Federal Center station. As I'm starting to
notice, the Green Mountain ar

Packet Pg. 152
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

4 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

00483236

Mieske, Craig

The schedule from Mineral to the airport requires 2 long wait connections.
12 minutes at Broadway and 20 minutes at Union. If the Broadway
Closed
connection to Union were shortened, I could make the connection at Union.
With the line from Mineral to Unio

00483283

Zillner, Ryan

#44 Bus Route Request

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/27/2021, 7:21
AM

00483290

The 6 needs to run every 15 minutes during rush hour. It is so packed you
cannot find a place to sit. Internal Comments

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/17/2021, 12:29
PM

00483381

LX1 & LX2

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 8:12
AM

We need to have the 28 going passed Wadsworth. I am disabled and
cannot walk the distance to my new job.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:16
AM

Feedback in rout-FF5

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/27/2021, 7:49
AM

00483697

Vassos, Bianca

00483811

Standard KDoub

9/20/2021, 4:37
PM

00484474

7202981022

65 bus is too full. and child had to take the next bus that went G/W and her
child was stranded at wrong stop. we need to provide extra buses pass
G/W

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/16/2021, 11:16
AM

00484475

BOWEN, ZAK

You need to use the long buses on the regular route 15 because they are
getting so crowded .

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 8:59
AM

00484552

3037183558

please reinstate the 21 going to the Green Mountain High School

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:06
AM

00484582

Niazi, Aiden

Route 21’s old route reinstatement

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:11
AM

00484904

Due Covid 19 run 4 compartments on weekends instead of two due to the
fact that the compartments are overcrowded and no social distancing on
top of that is just circulated air on the 2 compartments

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/16/2021, 10:17
AM

00485135

Is there any idea/plan for when the 24 route will go back to running a bus
every half hour (as it did pre-pandemic)? Once an hour is a problem for my
commute. Thank you.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:14
AM

00485213

Bus stop closure

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:20
AM

00485307

7208459584

My daughter is a teenager and she gets on the route 31 at about 3:40pm
going South and there are older men that are rubbing them self against the
teenagers that are on the bus because this bus is over crowded. This
happens everyday. They should send out a

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:22
AM

00485532

Peterson, Patty

It would be so much more convenient for the Bolt to go back up to 23rd and
Closed
Main again for the people that work in Boulder

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:23
AM

Cook, Shelley

Any way to get the 52 or 72 down to the Ward Road station on the G Line?
We now have connections to the south, but none to the north. Also, he
must be connecting at Olde Town (and that would be the 52, 72 or 76.) PS
The old express out of Ward was not way

Medium

9/21/2021, 9:24
AM

00486597

Closed

KDoub

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.i

Packet Pg. 153
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

5 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

00486615

I'm curious if the train times will ever be fixed. Prior to June 2021 the times
were perfect. They've now added travel time not to mention paying for an
ecopass only to have to order ubers every single day after chasing down
the the 21 kipling/612am

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:27
AM

00487483

It would be nice if the N-line ran a little longer. It is convenient but you get
stuck downtown too early.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:29
AM

URGENT CHANGE NEEDED!

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:31
AM

Bring back the C line. You've completely cut off service from the South
Metro area to Union Station. This is unacceptable.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:33
AM

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:35
AM

00488939

Schedules sI uck! I am writing this about this date but it goes for pretty
much ANY day on my way home from work. I get on the 66 bus at Race &
Davies, which leaves at 4:03 pm. This makes me usually 2 minutes late for
the 4:20 E train heading

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:02
AM

00488945

Bring route 21 back to Federal Center Station. Green Mountain Flex Ride
isn’t enough and we’d prefer a commuter bus running at an accurate
schedule.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:37
AM

Reinstate the 87L or 30L.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:38
AM

00489222

Since you cancelled the C Line to Union Station, I must take the D Line to
Broadway and then transfer to the E line to Union Station....and then to A
Line to DIA. Not a problem going Northbound. However, coming
Southbound back to Englewood, the E

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/21/2021, 9:41
AM

00490798

Longmont Denver Service

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/30/2021, 7:58
AM

Suggestion

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:14
AM

Ff2 bus should be restored

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:17
AM

question about restoring old route

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 7:33
AM

00488063

Mersha, Natan

00488217
00488878

00488946

00491070

7207257283,
Ella

Niazi, Aiden

Niazi, Aiden

00491220
00491266

Gerk, Rick

00491418

3032490511

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 1:25
PM

00491419

Torres, Antonio

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:21
AM

00491515

3032490511

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:24
AM

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.i

Packet Pg. 154
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

6 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

00492517

Achen, Rodney

00492555

Sloan, Marjorie

00492575

Kolman, Jessica 83L bus drivers don’t stop at a required stop!

FW: GS line updates

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:28
AM

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:30
AM

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:32
AM

00492786

Flatiron flyer

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 8:34
AM

00492795

122x

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/22/2021, 9:24
AM

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 9:15
AM

00492986

Mecklenburg,
Luke

00493592

Flatiron Flyer routes

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 9:00
AM

00494294

Service to Goldem

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 7:35
AM

00494452

Buses are at capacity!

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 9:03
AM

00494464

Romero, Lupe

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 7:11
AM

00494497

Magreevy,
Patrick

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 7:23
AM

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 9:06
AM

Martinez,
Sharon

We need more buses during peak hours because the Route 12 is always
running late on my way to work and also on my way back home. Now that
Closed
there is more traffic and there are more people needing the bus we need to
be able to depend on the scheduled times t

Standard KDoub

9/27/2021, 9:08
AM

7207758815

I was really wondering if there can please be a 3 minute adjustment to the
traincard on that 120E at East lake Station at 5:54AM? I catch the N line at
72nd Station at 5:40AM by time I get there the bus is leaving which is
causing me to be late to work ev

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 1:33
PM

00494572

Bus line 10

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 8:10
AM

00494649

Is it at all possible to ask for a change in a route? I work at a school who
uses RTD on a daily basis and we are always running into timing issues
with route 66. We would love to petition to get it to run every 30 minutes
instead of every hour. T

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 1:42
PM

00494503

00494520

00494551

FF2 Route

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.i

Packet Pg. 155
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

7 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

00495646

7207621519,
Mark

This route 3 is always running behind schedules no matter if I'm going east
or west. RTD has to take a look at this route 3 and do something about it. I
have keep missing my connections.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 7:26
AM

00496268

Hidalgo, Beth

Please offer every 15 minute trains on the outlying trains, from 5 AM to 8
PM for medical staff. It should not take a hour and a half for me to get from
the west side to the anschuetz medical campus to start work at 7:00 AM

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 1:22
PM

00496632

Sirokman,
Richard

Connections to G & B line

Closed

Medium

KDoub

10/4/2021, 8:25
AM

00497755

Taillon, Raina

Please bring back the FF2

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 8:31
AM

00497979

7208413297

Incident Details This is not an RTD employee complaint its an route
complaint. Why do the EB route 16's scheduled to wait at Decatur/Federal
center for minutes? It's not waiting on people. It's not connecting with any
trains or buses. Why does it have a l

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 8:48
AM

00497992

3037960262

I think its a bad thought process for you guys to want us to take a train
Closed
during the bronco games but you have no parking at federal decatur station

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 8:49
AM

Will the 122x be back in service at some point? If so, when will this
happen?

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 8:56
AM

00498026
00498348

Rodgers,
Margie

FF2

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 8:55
AM

00498621

Carmody, Bob

Please have the 72 run on Sundays and the 100 go to Oberon on Sundays. Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 8:56
AM

00498688

Input on January 2022 Proposed RTD Service Changes

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 8:58
AM

00498781

RTD really needs to have service out to S Gartrell Rd & E Aurora Pkwy.
There are a lot of Senior Citizens and Vets that live out in that area. And
there is not Bus Service. And that is a lot of walking. Please help to do
something about this, and provide

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 4:06
PM

00498860

7205573736

This route 88 north and south is always running late, take a look and make
changes. This a problem all week long.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 1:47
PM

00499400

3038830393,
Kathy

There should also be extra trains added to the N line service during the
Broncos games as well. I was waiting at the 104th and Colorado station for
a while because the trains that came by were all full.

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 1:49
PM

00499480

Harvey, Laura

January 2022 Service Change

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 9:00
AM

00499515

Obenhaus, Dan service complaint

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 1:57
PM

00499518

Brothers, Ryan

Closed

Standard KDoub

9/28/2021, 4:28
PM

service complaint

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.i

Packet Pg. 156
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

8 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

00499637

00499950

7206870577

I would like to have the route 15 extended to picadilly to the new amazon
building. its a 20 min walk from tower but would only be be about 5 min on
the bus.

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 9:01
AM

7208412726

Can we PLEASE get a bus to go to the King Soopers at 62nd & Vasquez?
There is a bus that goes to the Walmart at 60th & Dahlia. It would be so
great to get to KS, a few blocks away. But it is too long for some of us to
walk. The #48 bus.

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/4/2021, 4:00
PM

ServiceAny chance you will bring the 16L back. And the 20 eastbound?

Closed

Medium

KDoub

10/5/2021, 8:11
AM

00500135
00500768

Guissinger,
Lynn

Fw: Question: Bus 205 Boulder/Gunbarrel

Closed

Medium

KDoub

9/28/2021, 1:24
PM

00500952

Fall, Jack

Reinstate the 30L, 125 and 87L to accompany rush hour traffic.

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 8:23
AM

00500956

Niazi, Aiden

Get route either route 3, 14, or 21 running back to the Green Mountain
Marketplace to accompany rush hour traffic and school.

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 8:32
AM

00501542

Montoya, Eric

There needs to be a stop on Lamar or somewhere between Sheridan &
Olde Town Arvada for the G Line. I have a disability and it needs to change Closed
now. The distance is too far.

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 8:46
AM

00501584

7204801680

E line ends at 10:18 customer would like to add extra service on game
days.

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 8:55
AM

3039614183

My daughter goes to Manhatten Middle School. The #206 bus to take the
kids home comes a couple minutes too early for them to catch. The bell
Closed
rings at 3:45, but the bus comes at 3:44. Most of the kids miss this bus and
then have to wait another 30 mins. fo

Standard KDoub

9/29/2021, 9:13
AM

Gary, Holly

You have limited the 20 route to only 4 buses a day that go to Denver nrel. I
travel from 18th and Washington to 9th and Auraria. There are extremely
Closed
limited buses. This has caused many riders to not have access to
transportation most of the day. The

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 8:59
AM

00502606

7205860714

It a hassle for me my wife and my friends to go from the light rail track to
the commuter rail track to get to the A line. The walk is too long and I have
had a knee replacement and its hard for me to walk. you need to have
some kind of shuttle from one s

Working Standard KDoub

00502642

Turner, Connie

I want to know why the 43 no longer stops at 17th & Larmier?

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:01
AM

00503009

FF2

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 9:03
AM

00504510

Cory, Charles

I was wondering are you ever going to redo the schedule for the route 31
that's going to front range, since the pandemic, you cut service to our area
it's only running once an hour, before the pandemic we were getting a bus
every 30 minutes, are you

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 9:13
AM

00504783

3034926800

Myself and 10 other people want the J bus to come back we normally use it
Closed
to go to work. We will still be calling to remind you guys.

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 9:18
AM

00502050

00502480

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.i

Packet Pg. 157
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

9 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

00504800

Webb, Sheila

The current 59 bus service is inadequate. The eastbound buses almost
always arrive late at Littleton Station, and the westbound departure times
Closed
are too close to the arrival times of the trains which means that passengers
are waiting an hour for a bus

00505503

Bates, Shelby

Jan 2022 Service Update Feedback

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 9:31
AM

00505560

Increasing Frequent Flyer Denver-Boulder

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 8:50
AM

00505892

Welsh, Joseph

I catch the A line at different times of the day. I try and catch the E line at
Union Station. I miss the E line by 10 seconds. This happens no matter
when I catch the A line. Can there be an adjustment to the E so that that
customers are not having to wa

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:05
AM

00506400

P, Wendy

Service change suggestion

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:07
AM

N Line Train and thought I would write in. I wish RTD would add a bus on
Highway 2 in commerce city. I live near Newport Street. I have to walk
down to 72nd and Monaco to catch the 88 or 49 to get around. When it
snows really heavy nobody scrapes the side

New

Standard KDoub

00506734

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 9:26
AM

00507682

Griffin, Stephen Proposed January 2022 Service Changes

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:10
AM

00507805

"L" Line Station at 14th St.

Closed

Medium

KDoub

10/11/2021, 7:58
AM

00508459

RTD need to make a plan better for the Broncos Game. I'm at the Decatur
Station and there's a lot of people here because RTD closed the Empower
Closed
Field Station. Is this going to happen on every game? You're going to loose
ridership if you don't plan this be

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:12
AM

00508464

122X & Metro Bus

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/11/2021, 7:40
AM

00508532

Please bring R line service back to Ridgegate. For those of us who use
Ridgegate station, having to transfer at Lincoln to catch the R line really
adds to the overall commute time, not to mention when the temperature
drops, it's chilly waiting for th

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:15
AM

00508706

Reinstate FF2

Closed

Medium

10/6/2021, 8:53
AM

00508921

Please have more buss of the FF5. Pre pandemic there was a bus every 45
minutes. I use to take the FF5 bus every day. Since I work in a clinic my
Working Standard KDoub
hours differ from day to day. The current schedule doesn't allow for any
flexibility and I end up being

00509082
00509098

Evan, Rob

Pike, Betsy

Miller, Sara

KDoub

Resume 99L

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:19
AM

Boulder Chamber & Boulder Transportation Connections Comment: RTD
Service Restoration & Proposed Service Changes

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/5/2021, 9:43
AM

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.i

Packet Pg. 158
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

10 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

00509380

Light rail F Line

New

Standard KDoub

00509433

Rodriguez,
Brandon

Feedback on January 2022 proposal

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:23
AM

00509844

Robison,
Roselee

have Route 10 restored to service east of 10th Ave & Clermont. I live in the
Lowry area. I do have the 6 Route nearby, but for me, I am 70 years old, it
Closed
is a challenge to make it to that bus. I would not hesitate to use Route 15,
but I do not feel safe o

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 9:26
AM

00509866

Fowler, Brandon Upcoming January 2022 Service Changes: 104L & RX

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/11/2021, 8:04
AM

00510103

Isenhower,
Chris

Add an additional train car to the 6:44a and 7:14a N Line Southbound from
Eastlake/124. The trains have been PACKED the last few weeks on these
two morning departures and need additional capacity.

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/11/2021, 7:45
AM

00510307

Martus, David

Oct 3 5pm call

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/12/2021, 10:25
AM

00510451

Route Changes

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/12/2021, 10:23
AM

00510523

Late night W Light Rail Service

New

Standard KDoub

00510710

FF2

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/12/2021, 11:15
AM

Being Back FF6 and FF2

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/12/2021, 10:29
AM

Service changes feedback

Closed

Standard KDoub

10/6/2021, 8:48
AM

January 2022 Service Changes: Route 12: Now, I know that service often
gets delayed by a dozen minutes sometimes even before the bus passes
88th Ave (Southbound). I take the 732a Southbound Service (I get on at
Louisiana/Pearl at 8:37), and whenever I che

New

Standard KDoub

Longmont serviceI wish you would reinstate the LX1 route soon. The LD1
route is too slow and circuitous for most riders. It takes me an hour to get
downtown from Niwot P&R. Plus, the LD1 is now almost full other than on
Fridays. Thanks.

New

Medium

37-W. Holly/48th Rider upset that the 37 Schedule doesn't exist between
the hours of 8:30am and 2:30pm. He gets off from work but then he has to
stand around for an hour. Does RTD not care about Commerce City
anymore?

Working Standard KDoub

00512964

! I'd like to see the return of the C line in January. I'm a new rider due to a
job change and this would encourage using the train over driving

New

Standard KDoub

00513091

Hi, I'm a regular RTD customer and I commute from Longmont to Denver
almost daily,, several routes including express routes used to be offered,
however there are currently only 2 routes each direction,l. I have taken all
of these routes and they are

New

Standard KDoub

00510905

Every, Morgan

00510923

00511955

Ledesma,
Jackson

00512750

00512842

3033455606,
Matt

Mitchell, Kelly

KDoub

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.i

Packet Pg. 159
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

January 22 Public Comments ~ Salesforce - Unlimited Edition

11 of 11

https://rtd-denver.my.salesforce.com/500/x?fcf=00B3u000008KssZ&rpp_sticky=0&rowsperpa...

00513293

Garcia, Maria

The Route 483 needs to be running more often during peak times. The
times it leaves from Nine Mile Station need to be adjusted to leave after the
Working Standard KDoub
trains arrive. With the current schedule, we have to wait a whole hour for
this bus. It takes me two hours to
Please move the bus stop back on the west corner of Colfax and Colorado.
Being on the east side of Colorado is isolating and terrifying at night.
New
Absolutely unsafe at night.

Standard KDoub

00513554

Steinbrecher,
Stacy

Please, please, please bring back the LX (Longmont/Denver) or add more
than two buses to the LD. Two buses an hour apart does not work for
anyone commuting Longmont to Denver for work unless working 8 or 10
hour days. Our LXs pre-COVID were full and we ne

New

Standard KDoub

00513936

4077178769,
Nataly

I wish RTD would extend the N-line train to run a bit later at least until
midnight rather than stopping the service at 22:00. Because people who
are coming late from DIA need more transportation at night.

Working Standard KDoub

00514416

Longmont/Denver Express Service Reinstatement

New

Medium

00514477

Please bring back the GS Bus

New

Standard KDoub

RTD needs more buses in the Northglenn, Thornton area. We now have
such a dense population up here, but we have almost no buses in the area
and it makes it so hard for us to get to work.

Working Standard KDoub

00513420

00515134

3034895268

Copyright © 2000-2021 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved.

KDoub

Attachment: January 2022 Attachment I - Public Comments (4586 : January 2022 Proposed Service

2.12.E.i

Packet Pg. 160
10/12/2021, 4:07 PM

2.12.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Board Committee Structure

Committee Meeting Date:
October 19, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
October 19, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to its committee structure in order to optimize the number
of members assigned to each committee; encourage full and fruitful debate by decentralizing decisionmaking; leverage members’ relevant experience; and promote meeting efficiencies; in accordance with
the following discussion.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Ad Hoc Committee on Committee Structure (ad hoc committee) was formed in 2020 by Chair
Rivera-Malpiede to analyze the advisability of altering the composition of the Board’s standing
committees to optimize the number of members assigned to each committee; encourage full and fruitful
debate by decentralizing decision-making; leverage members’ relevant experience; and promote meeting
efficiencies. Directors Cook and Tisdale led the ad hoc committee’s work.
During August 2021, a working group convened by the General Manager and CEO, composed of
Directors Cook and Tisdale, General Manager and CEO, and staff, designed a process to implement the
ad hoc committee’s work into a recommendation for the Board’s consideration of a new committee
structure. The working group, based on previous feedback received from Directors, aligned on the
concept of establishing four standing committees, along with a separate Audit Committee. It is proposed
that each standing committee would be composed of between five and seven members and that the
Audit Committee composition would be prescribed by the International Professional Practices Framework
(IPPF) and confirmed by a third-party subject matter expert.
During the Operations and Customer Service Committee on Tuesday, September 14, 2021, the Board
suggested revisions to questions contained in a draft survey instrument created to assess the Board’s
alignment regarding specific aspects of the committee restructure. Responses garnered from the survey
informed changes to the proposed committee structure.
If adopted, proposed changes to the committee structure would necessitate corresponding Board Bylaws
revisions, which the Board would consider in November 2021 in order for the structural changes to take
place beginning January 1, 2022.
DISCUSSION
The proposed changes to the committee structure are as follows:

Packet Pg. 161

2.12.F

1) Committee Composition. Beginning January 1, 2022, standing committees will no longer be
committees of the whole. Standing committees will be composed of between five and seven
members as determined by the Executive Committee.
2) Standing Committees. The four standing committees will be as follows:
a. Finance and Planning Committee – Responsible for agency financial matters, including but
not limited to budget and monthly financial statement review, determination of the fiscal
impact of all Board actions, and long-range planning and capital projects
b. Operations and Safety Committee – Responsible for operational matters, including all
contracted and non-contracted bus, rail, paratransit, and microtransit services, as well as
safety and security matters
c. Performance Committee – Responsible for performance management of the General
Manager and CEO and the GM/CEO’s contract and annual comprehensive performance
evaluation, as well monitoring metrics as to the agency’s performance related to the
Strategic Plan success outcomes
d. Executive Committee – Responsible for agenda review for each regular meeting of the
Board and addressing ministerial matters affecting the Board, public affairs, external
relations, and legislation
3) Executive Committee. The Executive Committee will consist of five officers, including the Chair,
First Vice Chair, Second Vice Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer. The process for nomination and
selection of members will mirror recent practices, and officers will serve for a term of one year.
4) Committee Membership. Based upon Directors’ stated interest in serving on standing committees,
the Executive Committee will select the membership for each committee, and the Board will ratify
the selections.
5) Committee Chairs. The Chairs and Vice-Chairs will be selected by the members of the committee.
The term of each committee chair and vice chair will be one year.
6) Quorum. For standing committees of five members, a quorum necessary to conduct business will
be reached with three Directors present and participating, whether in person or attending
virtually. For committees of six or seven members, a quorum will be reached with four Directors
present and participating.
7) Audit Committee. A separate, independent Audit Committee will also be created. The
committee’s composition, structure, operation, processes, and procedures, including the quorum
necessary for the committee to conduct business, will align with the International Professional
Practices Framework of the Institute of Internal Auditors as suggested by the contracted
independent audit consultant and separately ratified by the Board.
8) Meeting Schedule. Meetings will be scheduled as follows:
a. The Finance and Planning Committee and the Operations and Safety committee will
typically be scheduled for the second Tuesday and the following Wednesday of each
month, after 5:30 p.m., except as stated in paragraph c.
b. The Board Meeting will typically be scheduled for the fourth Tuesday of every month,
except as stated in paragraph c. When no recommended actions must be addressed during
a Board Meeting in a given month, the Board reserves the option to cancel the meeting.
c. Unless the agency’s business needs require otherwise, no standing committee meetings or
monthly Board Meetings will be scheduled in August or December of each year.
d. Executive Committee meetings will be typically scheduled for noon on the third Thursday
of each month.
e. Performance Committee and Audit Committee meetings will be scheduled as necessary to
fulfill the committees’ responsibilities.
9) Public Comment. Public commentary germane to the topics listed in the published meeting
agenda for the current and immediately preceding month will be taken at the beginning of each
committee meeting. The Board Office will establish a process to allow individuals to submit

Packet Pg. 162

2.12.F

comments in advance, and any comments received will be incorporated into the public record of
the appropriate meeting.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no direct fiscal impact associated with the adoption of this action.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Committee Restructure Survey Responses (PDF)

•

Follow-up Questionnaire - Committee Restructure

(PDF)

Prepared by:
John McKay, Executive Business Partner
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 163

2.12.F.a

COMMITTEE RESTRUCTURE SURVEY

o

o

o
o

The Board has adopted Robert’s Rules of Order as its parliamentary authority. Nothing
in this survey is intended to imply that the Board will deviate from the parliamentary
guidance and best practices contained in Robert’s Rules.
Following each question is a field included to garner additional comments as
warranted. If your preferred multiple-choice response is not included among the
options listed, or if you wish to elaborate on the multiple-choice response you have
selected, please feel free to share your comments in the field provided.
Directors’ responses are a matter of public record and will be shared via agenda
packet distribution.
Responses are noted in blue text.

1) What is your preference for the days and times standing committees will meet (assuming
Board Meetings would be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month)?
o Second Tuesday and Wednesday of each month, after 5:30 p.m. – 5 responses
(Directors Broom, Buzek, Dishell, Rivera-Malpiede, Sloan)
o Second Tuesday and Wednesday, beginning at 4:30 p.m. – 1 response (Director
Tisdale)
o First and second Tuesday of each month, after 5:30 p.m. – 10 responses
(Directors Bouquet, Catlin, Cook, Davidson, Dishell, Guissinger, Lewis, Rosenthal,
Whitmore, Williams)
o Other (please elaborate below)
Director Cook – Monday or Tuesday work best for me
Director Dishell – Any time after business hours will be best for me and I believe
create more access for various constituents. If the meetings could even be at
6pm I think that would be most beneficial. This would allow members of the
public who work until 5pm who want to contribute to meetings to be able to get
to the meetings themselves. Separately, this will allow more Directors to
participate and prospective Directors who may not have as flexible of schedules
to be able to one day run.
Director Lewis – Generally, meetings should not occur before 5:30 pm. Board
meetings should always fall on the Third or Fourth Tuesday of the month,
consistently.

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

PREFATORY NOTES:

Page | 1
Packet Pg. 164

2) For your reference, the following have been suggested as standing committees:
o Finance and Planning – Responsible for agency financial matters, including but not
limited to budget and monthly financial statement review, determination of the
fiscal impact of all Board actions, and long-range planning and capital projects
o Operations and Safety Committee – Responsible for operational matters, including
all contracted and non-contracted bus, rail, paratransit, and microtransit services,
as well as safety and security matters
o Performance Committee – Responsible for performance management of the
General Manager and CEO and the GM/CEO’s contract and annual comprehensive
performance evaluation, as well monitoring metrics as to the agency’s performance
related to the Strategic Plan success outcomes
o Executive Committee – Responsible for agenda review for each regular meeting of
the Board and addressing ministerial matters affecting the Board, public affairs,
external relations, and legislation
Note that the Audit Committee would operate separately and independently in
compliance with the International Professional Practices Framework promulgated by the
Institute of Internal Auditors.
What is the number of standing committees you would prefer?
a. Fewer than four – 2 responses (Directors Dishell, Rivera-Malpiede)
b. Four – 12 responses (Directors Bouquet, Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Davidson,
Guissinger, Rosenthal, Sloan, Tisdale, Whitmore, Williams)
c. More than four – 1 response (Director Lewis)
d. Other (please elaborate below)

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

2.12.F.a

Page | 2
Packet Pg. 165

2.12.F.a

Director Lewis – I am concerned about moving to smaller committees without
first establishing trust of board members first, my concern is that more actions
will fail during board meetings due to board members lacking information.
Furthermore, I am concerned that the number of committees doesn’t fully grasp
what is needed within the agency. I believe we will need further discussion
about how we are effective and transparent in our process as an agency. This is
also a good time to reevaluate how the requirements that 3 directors need to
bring forth a board initiated action item. Smaller committees should require less
directors to bring forth an action.
Director Tisdale – I personally prefer the four Committees identified by Doug
Eadie: (1) Governance (or Board Operations) Comm; (2) Planning and
Development Comm (which includes budget and long range planning); (3)
Performance Oversight/Monitoring Comm (which includes agency performance
and General Manager performance); and (4) External / Stakeholder Relations
(which includes gov't relations, marketing, communications, public relations and
all related matters). The Audit Committee -- a committee of three -- is a
separate case.
Director Whitmore – In general I think four committees are adequate. The only
issue I have is that you would have to be a member of the Executive Committee
to be active in governmental affairs decisions. This seems to eliminate those of
us who can't serve on the Executive Committee from governmental affairs
roles...

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

Director Dishell - I believe the executive committee could be collapsed and
include the chairs of each standing committee, a board chair, and a vice chair or
something similar. This would allow for greater collaboration among standing
committee chairs, which will be especially important as we move to smaller
committees.

Page | 3
Packet Pg. 166

3) What is your preferred number of Directors per standing committee?
a. Fewer than five – 2 responses (Directors Bouquet, Rosenthal)
b. Five – 6 responses (Directors Bouquet, Broom, Rivera-Malpiede, Rosenthal,
Tisdale, Williams)
c. Six
d. Seven – 1 response (Director Lewis)
e. More than seven
f. A range of five to seven – 7 responses (Directors Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Dishell,
Guissinger, Sloan, Whitmore)
g. Other (please elaborate below)
Director Cook - A range of 5-7 provides more flexibility.
Director Davidson – I suggest that we discuss this in more depth. My initial
suggestion is to set a range of 3-7 Directors based on the available expertise
from individual Directors, based on the needs of the agency in a given year, and
based on the associated workload. Furthermore, I do not believe that all
committees need to be the same size. In general, a target of 5 Directors
makes the most sense to me. If I had to pick a single number of Directors for
committees (excluding the Audit Committee), it would be 5.
Director Dishell – Fewer than 5 is also fine from my perspective
Director Tisdale – The Exec Committee could be renamed "Governance" or
"Board Operations" and might consist of seven (7) members, being the 5
Officers and two other Directors.
Director Williams – If there are four committees and 15 directors it would seem
logical to me to have 4 Directors on each committee and the Chair could be on 2
and each Director would be required to be on one.

4) Would you agree that the standing committees noted in Question 2 are sufficient for
subject matter purposes?
a. Yes – 13 responses (Directors Bouquet, Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Davidson,
Dishell, Guissinger, Rivera-Malpiede, Rosenthal, Tisdale, Whitmore, Williams)
b. No – 2 responses (Directors Lewis, Sloan)
c. Other (please elaborate below)

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

2.12.F.a

Page | 4
Packet Pg. 167

2.12.F.a

Committee
will –function.
said,
this discuss
generally
sense.
I also think
Director
Davidson
I would That
like to
further
to makes
hear the
comments,
ideas, and
"Executive"
could
be
removed
from
the
committee
name
in
lieu
of
a
different
concerns from other Directors on this matter.
name that does not create such a heirarchical implication. Separately, I
Director
Dishell
– The members
of a committee
should
the along
leader.the
Decentralizing
believe
the committee
definitions
should begin
with select
language
lines
power
where
we're
able
to
do
so
is
more
equitable
and
can
create
better
results
of "Working through a lens of Justice Equity Diversity and Inclusion [Name] for
committee
members
and the for..."
agencyWhile
as a itwhole.
Should
we that
go with
nomination
Committee
is responsible
has been
stated
JEDIa should
be a process,
the part
number
of
nominations
one
person
can
make
should
be
limited.
Again,
to
of all that we do and a lens through which we work, we should cementdecentralize
power
influence
person
or athe
small
group
may
have. Director
Lewis
thisand
in our
policiesone
if that
is truly
feeling
that
individuals
have and
the– Chair and
Vicejustification
Chairs can that
be nominated
or self-nominate
theRights
members
of the committee
is being used
to remove thebyCivil
Committee.
Director
Lewis:
Chair and
Vice Chairs
can be nominated
or self-nominate
by the members
Director
Whitmore
– Again,
a bit concerned
with governmental
relations
of the
committee
limited
to Executive Committee. Not a huge deal but something to ponder...
Director Williams – If there are four Directors on each committee why would there need to
be a vice chair? If the Chair of the committee isn't available any of the other Directors
could fill in
5) What is your preferred selection method for committee chairs and vice-chairs?
a. Chairs and vice-chairs should be appointed by the Chair – 2 responses (Directors
Broom, Buzek)
b. Chairs and vice-chairs should be appointed by the Chair and ratified by the Board
– 1 response (Director Rosenthal)
c. Chairs and vice-chairs should be selected by members of the committee – 5
responses (Directors Bouquet, Dishell, Rivera-Malpiede, Sloan, Williams)
d. Chairs and vice-chairs should be nominated in the same way that Executive
Committee members are selected – 1 response (Director Lewis)
e. Chairs and vice-chairs should be nominated by the Executive Committee and
ratified by the Board – 5 responses (Directors Catlin, Cook, Guissinger, Tisdale,
Whitmore)
f. Other (please elaborate below)

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

Director
Cook
– After
today's
seminar,
a norm ofcurrently
rotating the
Director
Dishell
– In
order APTA
to fully
opine, Isuggest
believe also
the "Officers"
in chairs
every
one-two
years.
existence will need to be revised to better understand how the Executive

Page | 5
Packet Pg. 168

6) What is your preferred selection method for membership of standing committees?
a. Committee members to be selected by the Chair – 2 responses (Directors Broom,
Buzek)
b. Committee members to be selected by the Chair and ratified by the Board – 4
responses (Directors Bouquet, Catlin, Davidson, Sloan)
c. Committee members to be selected by the committee chairs (see also question 6
below) and ratified by the Executive Committee – 4 responses (Directors RiveraMalpiede, Rosenthal, Tisdale, Whitmore)
d. Members to nominate and vote for Directors to compose committee membership
– 1 response (Director Dishell)
e. Other (please elaborate below)
Director Cook – Board members to indicate interest (self-nominate) and exec
committee to extent possible to accommodate interests
Director Dishell – Ratification by the broader Board seems to be more "check
the box." In reality, I don't foresee anyone making a strong objection to one
person being on a committee vs. others. However, if we are to truly all
operate together, then we should allow for a collective decision making
process to determine committee membership. A formal nomination and
voting process may be unnecessary for an item like this.
Director Guissinger – Board members should select their interests, which
should be respected by the EC as much as possible. Executive Committee
would have final selection.
Director Lewis – Directors can self-select the committees they are interested
in participating in.
Director Williams – Each Director should be required to serve on one
committee and have a 1st and second choice of which committee. You don't
want me on the finance committee, FYI

7) Of the four suggested standing committees, namely Finance and Planning, Operations
and Safety, Performance, and Executive, please indicate which committee you believe
should perform the following functions:
a. Governance of internal Board matters

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

2.12.F.a

Page | 6
Packet Pg. 169

2.12.F.a

Executive – 12 responses (Directors Bouquet, Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook,
Davidson, Dishell, Guissinger, Rivera-Malpiede, Sloan, Whitmore, Williams)
Performance – 1 response (Director Rosenthal)

Director Tisdale – Exec Comm a/k/a Governance Comm or Board Operations
Comm
b. Agenda setting for monthly Board Meetings
Executive – 11 responses (Directors Bouquet, Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Davidson,
Dishell, Guissinger, Rivera-Malpiede, Rosenthal, Sloan, Whitmore
Finance and Planning – 1 response (Director Williams)

Director Cook – This should almost be automatic after committee action, but
Exec.
Director Lewis – Full Board
Tisdale – Exec Comm a/k/a Governance or Board Ops Comm
c. Performance management – agency
Performance – 9 responses (Directors Bouquet, Broom, Catlin, Cook, Davidson,
Guissinger, Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale, Williams)
Operations and Safety – 2 responses (Directors Dishell, Lewis)
Executive – 2 responses (Directors Buzek, Sloan)
Performance or Operations and Safety – 2 responses (Directors Rosenthal,
Whitmore)
d. Performance management – General Manager and CEO
Performance – 11 responses (Directors Bouquet, Buzek, Catlin, Davidson,
Dishell, Guissinger, Lewis, Rivera-Malpiede, Rosenthal, Tisdale, Whitmore)
Executive – 3 responses (Directors Broom, Sloan, Williams)

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

Director Lewis – Not quite sure what is meant here, it’s rather vague

Director Cook – Performance, with ample opportunity for input by the Board

Page | 7
Packet Pg. 170

2.12.F.a

e. External relations with government entities
Executive – 8 responses (Directors Broom, Buzek, Cook, Davidson, Guissinger,
Rivera-Malpiede, Rosenthal, Whitmore)
Planning and Finance – 1 response (Director Bouquet)

Director Catlin – I believe that all of the committees play a role in external
relations, but different issues could be funneled through the Executive
Committee since there is a close tie with the GM/CEO
Director Dishell – Executive - if elected to elected or relevant committee based
on purpose and function of the meeting
Director Lewis – This should be a function of the full board
Director Tisdale – Exec Comm a/k/a Governance or Board Ops Comm
Director Williams – Staff
f.

External relations with nongovernmental stakeholders and community partners
Executive – 7 responses (Directors Broom, Buzek, Cook, Davidson,
Guissinger, Rosenthal, Whitmore)
Operations – 2 responses (Directors Rivera-Malpiede, Williams)
Operations or Performance – 1 response (Director Dishell)
Finance and Planning – 1 response (Director Bouquet)
Communications – 1 response (Director Sloan)

Director Catlin – Same answer as above
Director Lewis – This should be a function of the full board
Director Tisdale – Exec Comm a/k/a Governance or Bd Ops Comm
8) How many members should serve on the Executive Committee?
a. 3, including the Chair, the Vice Chair, and the Secretary – 2 responses (Directors
Bouquet, Williams)
b. 5, including the Board officers, namely the Chair, First Vice-Chair, Second ViceChair, Secretary, and Treasurer – 6 responses (Directors Buzek, Catlin, Cook,
Davidson, Guissinger, Rivera-Malpiede)
c. 7, including the five Board officers as currently organized, as well as two additional
Board members – 3 responses (Directors Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale, Whitmore)

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

Communications – 1 response (Director Sloan)

Page | 8
Packet Pg. 171

2.12.F.a

d. Other (please elaborate). If your choice above is not selected, what would be your
next preference for size of the Exec Committee?
Director Broom – Chair plus 4 committee chairmen.

Director Dishell – A full evaluation of the officers, as mentioned above, is
necessary from my perspective to opine on this matter. This will also need to
be opened up. I believe Exec Committee should be the chair of each
committee, Board Chair, Vice Chair (who may be able to assume the
responsibilities of Secretary and Treasurer), and perhaps a new role of
Government Relations, External Relations or a similar term. We may want to
consider having two of those individuals.
Director Guissinger – Second choice would be 7 members.
Director Rosenthal – 3--a Chair, a Vice Chair, as well as one interested other
Board member (selected by a drawing) on a rotating basis every 3 months.
The only officers the Board should elect are a Chair and Vice Chair. All the
other officer positions should be eliminated because they're not necessary
and don't really serve an official purpose.
Director Sloan – 5-7
Director Tisdale – If not 7, then we should default back to the 5 officers.
Director Whitmore – First choice is c.7, Second choice would be b. 5
9) If you answered “c” in Question 8, how do you feel the additional two members should
be selected?
a. The chairs of the Finance and Planning and Operations and Safety committees
should serve as ex officio voting members – 1 response (Director Rosenthal)
b. Two Directors who do not otherwise serve as committee chairs should be selected
by the Chair – 1 response (Director Sloan)
c. Two Directors who do not serve as committee chairs should be selected as
members by the Board – 3 responses (Directors Dishell, Tisdale, Whitmore)
d. Other (please elaborate below) If your choice above is not selected, what would
be your next preference for size of the Exec Committee?

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

Director Cook – 7 would be second choice

Page | 9
Packet Pg. 172

2.12.F.a

Director Lewis – Membership selection should follow the same procedure for
all of the executive board members, these can be self-nominations or
nominations from peers.

Director Williams – Seven is way too many and unnecessary

10) Do you agree that positions such as those of Executive Committee officers and committee
chairs should be rotated or staggered on a periodic/less than annual basis?
a. Yes – 3 responses (Directors Bouquet, Davidson, Dishell)
b. No – 11 responses (Directors Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Guissinger, RiveraMalpiede, Rosenthal, Sloan, Tisdale, Whitmore, Williams)
c. Other (please elaborate below)
Director Bouquet – I believe a six month rotation of both Executive Committee
officers as well as committee chairs would be best.
Director Cook – As per Eadie suggestion, every one-two years for the committee
chairs. Exec committee elected annually as is current practice
Director Dishell – It should be at least annual terms. That said, maybe January 1
does not make the most sense for us as an agency. Perhaps the fall makes more
sense to allow new leadership to get involved and up to speed prior to the start
of the legislative session.
Director Guissinger – I think they should rotate annually or even every two
years. Chairs need some time to get some experience.
Director Lewis – Without context as to what this solves, or what we hope to
achieve, I do not believe I have sufficient information to answer.
Director Rosenthal – The whole point of restructuring the committees was to
have them be more focused so chair/vice chairs & members can become more
subject matter experts. That wouldn't happen if there was staggering and
rotating.
Tisdale – No more than a one-year appointment for any office.

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

Director Rosenthal – I didn't select option "c", but if I did, it would be option
"a" from this list to choose who serves.

Page | 10
Packet Pg. 173

2.12.F.a

Director Broom – Written input may be sent to Board office to provide to
committees
Director Catlin – Perhaps, but only if clear guidelines are established. For
example, if people sign up on an issue and all make the same statement, it can
be time consuming. Perhaps a statement with multiple signatures could be
read to the Committee by one representative of the group.
Director Lewis - The public should have 3 minutes to speak at each meeting
without topic restrictions. We should provide language services for those that
wish to engage, including interpretation and document translation.
Director Whitmore – Must be germane and limited.

Attachment: Committee Restructure Survey Responses (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

11) Do you agree that public comment should be allowed at the beginning of standing
committee meetings, so long as the commentary is germane to listed agenda topics?
a. Yes – 11 responses (Directors Bouquet, Buzek, Cook, Davidson, Dishell,
Guissinger, Lewis, Rosenthal, Sloan, Tisdale, Whitmore)
b. No – 2 responses (Directors Rivera-Malpiede, Williams)
c. Other (please elaborate below)

Page | 11
Packet Pg. 174

2.12.F.b

Follow-up Questionnaire Regarding Committee Restructure – Board Report Options

1) Committee Composition. Beginning January 1, 2021, standing committees will no longer be committees
of the whole. Standing committees will be composed of:
[OPTION A] Five members.

Bouquet: A
Broom: A
Buzek: A

Catlin: B
Cook: B
Davidson: B

Dishell: B
Guissinger: B
Lewis: none of
the above

Rivera-Malpiede: A
Rosenthal: A
Sloan: B

Tisdale: A
Whitmore: B
Williams: A

2) Committee Membership. The membership of each committee will be determined as follows:
[OPTION A] The Board Chair will select members to serve on each committee, and the Board will ratify
the Chair’s selections.
[OPTION B] Based upon Directors’ stated interest in serving on standing committees, the Executive
Committee will select the membership of each committee, and the Board will ratify the selections.
[OPTION C] If committee chairs are determined by the Executive Committee (see item 3), the
committee chairs will select the membership of each committee, and the Executive Committee will ratify
the selection.
Bouquet: A
Broom: B
Buzek: A

Catlin: B
Cook: B
Davidson: B

Dishell: B
Guissinger: B
Lewis: none of
the above

Rivera-Malpiede: A
Rosenthal: B
Sloan: B

Tisdale: B
Whitmore: B
Williams: B

3) Committee Chairs. The chair and vice chair of each committee will be determined as follows:
[OPTION A] The members of each committee will select the committee’s chair and vice chair during the
committee’s first meeting each year. Committee members may nominate themselves or others for chair
and vice chair positions.
[OPTION B] The Executive Committee will nominate the chair and vice chair of each committee, and
the nominations will be ratified by the Board as soon as practicable in January of each year.
Bouquet: A
Broom: B
Buzek: B

Catlin: B
Cook: B
Davidson: A

Dishell: A
Guissinger: B
Lewis: A

Rivera-Malpiede: A
Rosenthal: B
Sloan: A

Tisdale: B
Whitmore: B
Williams: A

Attachment: Follow-up Questionnaire - Committee Restructure (4588 : Board Committee Restructure)

[OPTION B] Between five and seven members as determined by the selecting authority (see item 2).

Packet Pg. 175

2.12.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan

Committee Meeting Date:
October 19, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
October 19, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022-2027 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP).
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Todd Nikkel, Budget Analyst IV
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The 2022-2027 MTFP is the six-year financial forecast used as the basis for the development of the
2022 Budget and provides guidance for future year financial planning. The development of this forecast
seeks to balance planned expenditures with anticipated available funding sources in alignment with
RTD’s Strategic Plan. Adoption of the 2022-2027 MTFP by the Board is not a commitment or
appropriation of funding.
DISCUSSION
RTD’s financial projections have improved since the Board last approved an MTFP in November 2020. In
the intervening period, RTD has gained additional clarity regarding one-time and recurring revenue
streams and has defined a clearer path forward for service levels, state of good repair and other
expenditures.
2022-2027 Changes Since November 2020 MTFP
• Fare revenue reduction of $94 million including a modest decrease in 2024 as a cautious
approach related to potential results of the System-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis. No fare
increase is contemplated.
• Sales and use tax projections provided in September 2021 by the University of Colorado Leeds
School of Business projecting a $339 million increase. Includes cap on Base System growth of
2% after 2024 for Taxpayer Bill of Rights limits
• Additional federal COVID-19 relief funding apportionments of $542 million for a total of $774
million
• Operating expense increase of $577 million for 85% service levels and inflationary increases
• Debt service decrease of $129 million due to debt refinancing for interest savings
• Asset management of additional $163 million for state of good repair
• Increase in reserves of $118 million
Current Outlook
• The 2022-2027 period balances funding sources and uses while strengthening reserves
• Service levels at 85% of pre-COVID levels

Packet Pg. 176

2.12.G

•
•
•
•
•

Funding of full asset management backlog plus ongoing needs
Debt service coverage ratio policy of 1.2x is met or exceeded each year
Reserves of three months operating expenses met in each year
Base System funding will supplement FasTracks
No new projects are included

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2022-2027 MTFP projects balanced funding sources and uses while meeting asset management
needs and fiscal policy requirements for reserves and debt service coverage ratios.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP

(PDF)

•

10.19.21 AMP for MTFP

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 177

2022-2027 Mid-term Financial Plan
(MTFP)

October 19, 2021

1

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

Packet Pg. 178

2022-2027 MTFP

Six-year forecast
Strategic financial planning
Financial success policy roadmap
2022 Budget established baseline
Not an appropriation
October 19, 2021

2

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

Packet Pg. 179

MTFP History – November 2020

Only two of six years approved by Board
$250 million annual revenue shortfalls
Expense reductions
Asset maintenance deferrals
Unpredictable financial outlook
October 19, 2021

3

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

Packet Pg. 180

2022-2027 MTFP Current State

Fare revenue slowly recovering
Sales and use taxes higher
COVID-19 relief funding
Sustainable service levels
Asset maintenance fully funded
Fund balances restored
October 19, 2021

4

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

Packet Pg. 181

2022-2027 MTFP Additional Considerations

Strategic plan implementation
Reimagine RTD
Fare Study and Equity Analysis
TABOR limits
Economic volatility
Litigation and liability funding
October 19, 2021

5

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

Packet Pg. 182

2022-2027 MTFP Revenue – October 2021 vs.
September 2020
Revenues (in thousands)
1,300,000
1,200,000
1,100,000
1,000,000
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
2021

2022

2023

2024
October 2021

October 19, 2021

2025

2026

2027

November 2020

6

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

Packet Pg. 183

2022-2027 MTFP Expenditures – October 2021 vs.
September 2020
Expenditures (in thousands)
1,400,000
1,300,000
1,200,000
1,100,000
1,000,000
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
2021

2022

2023

2024
October 2021

October 19, 2021

2025

2026

2027

November 2020

7

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

Packet Pg. 184

2022-2027 MTFP Base System ($ in thousands)
Base System

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

Amended
Budget
2021
Fares
$
46,989
Sales and use taxes
409,801
197,204
Grant revenue and other income
COVID-19 Relief Grants
174,275
Total Revenue
Operating Exp less Depreciation
Debt Service
CapEx/state of good repair
(Contribute to)/use of reserves
Total Expenditures
Net Cash Flow
Reserves
Months of operating expenses

October 19, 2021

$

828,269

$

$

2022
67,744
461,021
116,436
101,412
746,613

$

$

2023
84,515
481,301
118,752
101,412

$

2024
82,025
505,014
121,118
101,412

785,980

$ 809,569

$

$

2025
83,665
515,115
123,967
722,747

$

$

2026
85,338
525,417
122,792
733,547

$

$

2027
87,045
535,925
125,355
-

$

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

2021-2027
537,321
3,433,594
925,624
478,511

748,325

$ 5,375,050

(544,656)
(78,271)
(30,247)
-

(560,713)
(69,716)
(153,242)
(185,000)

(565,762)
(56,612)
(50,060)
(87,000)

(579,690)
(56,599)
(20,613)
(88,500)

(593,552)
(47,013)
(22,222)
(86,600)

(607,689)
(38,580)
(130,388)
18,300

(618,790)
(27,495)
(111,869)
50,200

(4,070,852)
(374,286)
(518,641)
(378,600)

(653,174)

(968,671)

(759,434)

(745,402)

(749,387)

(758,357)

(707,954)

(5,342,379)

$ (222,058) $ 26,546

$ 64,167

$ (26,640) $ (24,810) $ 40,371

$

454,748

$ 607,415

$

5.1

6.0

$ 175,095

341,201
4.7

$

667,375
5.5

$

624,265
5.1

$

$

32,671

614,436
5.7

8

Packet Pg. 185

2022-2027 MTFP FasTracks ($ in thousands)
FasTracks

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grant revenue and other income
COVID-19 Relief Grants

Amended
Budget
2021
$
21,197
273,201
29,093

Total Revenue
Operating Exp less Depreciation
Debt Service
CapEx/state of good repair
(Contribute to)/use of reserves
Total Expenditures
Net Cash Flow
Reserves
Months of operating expenses

October 19, 2021

$

$

2022
30,436
307,347
-

$

2023
37,971
320,868
-

2024
$
36,852
336,676
-

$

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

2025
37,589
351,503
-

2026
$
38,340
368,788
-

2027
$
39,107
385,143
-

2021-2027
$
241,492
2,343,526
29,093

323,491

337,783

358,839

373,528

389,092

407,128

424,250

2,614,111

(146,660)
(183,861)
-

(183,761)
(166,848)
-

(188,657)
(180,498)
-

(193,389)
(181,916)
-

(198,011)
(196,506)
-

(202,380)
(227,272)
-

(206,659)
(257,881)
-

(1,319,517)
(1,394,782)
-

(330,521)

(350,609)

(369,155)

(375,305)

(394,517)

(429,652)

(464,540)

(2,714,299)

(1,777) $

(5,425) $ (22,524) $ (40,290)

$ (100,188)

(7,030) $ (12,826) $ (10,316) $
$

(101,987) $ (112,303) $ (114,081) $ (119,506) $ (142,030) $ (182,320)
-

-

-

-

-

-

9

Packet Pg. 186

2022-2027 MTFP Total ($ in thousands)
Total

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

Amended
Budget
2021
Fares
$
68,186
Sales and use taxes
683,002
197,204
Grant revenue and other income
COVID-19 Relief Grants
203,368
Total Revenue
Operating Exp less Depreciation
Debt Service
CapEx/state of good repair
(Contribute to)/use of reserves
Total Expenditures
Net Cash Flow
Reserves
Months of operating expenses

October 19, 2021

$

2022
98,180
768,368
116,436
101,412

$

2023
122,486
802,169
118,752
101,412

2024
$ 118,877
841,690
121,118
101,412

$

2025
121,254
866,618
123,967
-

$

2026
123,678
894,205
122,792
-

$

Attachment: 10.19.21 2022-2027 MTFP (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.a

2027
126,152
921,068
125,355
-

2021-2027
$
778,813
5,777,120
925,624
507,604

1,151,760

1,084,396

1,144,819

1,183,097

1,111,839

1,140,675

1,172,575

7,989,161

(691,316)
(262,132)
(30,247)
-

(744,474)
(236,564)
(153,242)
(185,000)

(754,419)
(237,110)
(50,060)
(87,000)

(773,079)
(238,515)
(20,613)
(88,500)

(791,563)
(243,519)
(22,222)
(86,600)

(810,069)
(265,852)
(130,388)
18,300

(825,449)
(285,376)
(111,869)
50,200

(5,390,369)
(1,769,068)
(518,641)
(378,600)

(983,695)

(1,319,280)

(1,128,589) (1,120,707)

(1,143,904)

(1,188,009)

(1,172,494)

(8,056,678)

$ 168,065

$ (234,884) $ 16,230

$ 62,390

$ (32,065) $ (47,334) $

$

342,445

$ 493,334

$

3.3

4.2

239,214
3.0

$

547,869
3.7

$

482,235
3.0

$

81

$ (67,517)

432,116
3.0

10

Packet Pg. 187

Regional Transportation District
2022-2027 Mid-term Financial Plan - Asset Management Plan
Attachment B ($ in thousands)
Requesting Department

Title

Bus
Bus
Bus
Bus
Bus
Equipment
Equipment
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
IT
IT
IT
IT
ITS
ITS
ITS
ITS
ITS
ITS
ITS
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Infrastructure
Light Rail Vehicles
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities

Transit Buses - 40 ft
Transit Buses - 30 ft
Access-a-Ride and FlexRide Cutaways
Intercity MCI Buses
State Highway 119
Hegenscheidt Replacement
Skid Steer Loader Replacement
Shop Equipment Replacement - Vacuum
Hoist Replacement
HVAC Replacement
Roof Repair
Roll Up Door Replacement
HVAC Replacement
Vehicle Wash Replacement
HVAC Replacement
Vehicle Wash Replacement
HVAC Replacement
HVAC Replacement
Network Equipment Replacement
Telecom Equipment Replacement
Server Equipment Replacement
Software Architecture Development
Digital Video Recorder Replacement
Mobile Data Terminal Replacement
Thermal Printer Replacements
Mobile Router Replacement
CAD/AVL Replacement
Mobile Radio Replacement
Portable Radio Replacement
Rail Replacements
Grade Crossing Replacement
Diamond/Switch Replacement
Grade Crossing Replacement
Traction Power Replacement
Grade Crossing Replacement
Traction Power Replacement
Grade Crossing Replacement
DC Propulsion Replacement
Parking Structure Repair
Parking Structure Repair
High Block Replacement
Driver Relief Station Repairs
Parking Structure Repair
Parking Structure Maintenance

Location

Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Elati
Rio Court
East Metro
District Shops
Elati SCC
Mariposa
Elati
Mariposa SCC
District Shops
Boulder
East Metro
Platte
Boulder Station
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Central Corridor
Central Platte Valley
Central Platte Valley
Downtown Loop
Southwest Corridor
West Corridor
Central Platte Valley
Central Corridor
Districtwide
US36 & Sheridan
Lincoln Station
Districtwide
Districtwide
Nine Mile Station
Districtwide

Project Costs - 2022 Project Costs - 2023 Project Costs - 2024 Project Costs - 2025 Project Costs - 2026 Project Costs - 2027 Total Capital Costs

$

12,866
3,971
3,516
109
896
9
384
2,822
2,500
240
265
650
60
800
2,350

$

1,199
4,046
1,140
399
654
66
378
1,384
1,772
1,000
800
2,300
650
60
650
2,350

$

2,317
1,836
48
4,046
575
282
223
132
4
34
5,080
1,200
500
875
650
60
2,350

$

4,055
4,003
11
32
1,083
1,058
1,500
3,000
2,268
650
60
2,350

$

25,408
1,256
1,871
2,118
113
6,100
3,135
1,784
1,000
1,890
650
-

$

3,516
36,499
767
896
295
384
2,822
2,086
8,129
8,175
1,512
21,000
1,300
500
650
-

$

12,866
3,971
35,955
40,554
1,836
48
109
8,092
1,140
399
575
282
223
4,003
1,256
1,871
767
4,707
518
7,279
8,778
8,248
1,772
1,083
3,145
8,129
8,175
1,512
3,500
800
1,200
3,000
3,000
21,000
1,300
500
7,333
240
265
3,900
240
1,450
9,400

Attachment: 10.19.21 AMP for MTFP [Revision 1] (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

2.12.G.b

Packet Pg. 188

2.12.G.b

Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
Public Facilities
SCADA
Security
Support Fleet
Support Fleet
Support Fleet
Treasury
Treasury
Treasury
Treasury
Treasury
Total

Title

Bridge Repair
Bridge Repair
Parking Structure Repair
Bridge Repair
Bridge Repair
Tactile Replacement
Bridge Repair
Station Removal
SCADA Equipment Replacement
Camera Replacements
Unleaded Vehicles
Diesel Vehicles
Standby Vehicles
Ticket Vending Machine Replacement
Platform Validator Head Replacement
Stamp Validator Replacements
Currency Sorter Replacement
Change Machine Replacement
Additional SOGR/Adj by Year

Location

Project Costs - 2022 Project Costs - 2023 Project Costs - 2024 Project Costs - 2025 Project Costs - 2026 Project Costs - 2027 Total Capital Costs

I25 & Arapahoe
I25 & Dry Creek
Table Mesa
LRT Bridge - Broadway
LRT Bridge - Arapahoe
Districtwide
LRT Bridge - Tufts
29th St Station
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
Districtwide
$

369
990
1,388
79
2,650
116,330
153,242

$

470
600
139
990
473
304
2,600
80
5,100
20,457
50,060

$

600
450
300
320
50
141
990
427
119
(2,996)
20,613 $

450
50
360
75
115
686
680
263
273
146
(946)
22,222 $

50
30
990
340
76
1,140
60
82,378
130,388

$

50
19
990
564
43
1,155
30
20,488
111,869

$

470
1,200
900
300
320
200
360
75
812
5,636
3,873
842
316
5,250
2,295
146
110
5,160
235,712
488,394

Attachment: 10.19.21 AMP for MTFP [Revision 1] (4583 : 2022-2027 Mid-Term Financial Plan)

Requesting Department

Packet Pg. 189

