2021-10-21
Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --to order. Oh, thank you. Good afternoon. I'd like to call the Executive
Committee to order. It is October 21, 2021. And it is 11:31 AM. Roll call, I see Secretary Buzek-VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --First Vice Chair Guissinger-LYNN GUISSINGER: Here
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I did get a call from Treasurer Rosenthal. He is in class and will not be able
to attend today's Executive Committee meeting and sends his sincere apologies. I also see General
Counsel Melanie Snyder. And Director Tisdale, welcome. And Mr. McKay. Gillian, is the General Manager
on?
GILLIAN DIVALENTINO: She should be here shortly
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and get started. First on the agenda
is the Board agenda for October 26. Do I have a motion to adopt?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Madam Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have a move Second Vice Chair Cook and a second of Secretary
Buzek. Any opposed to the agenda? OK. Seeing none, that was really all I had on the agenda was
approving the Board agenda. Does anybody else have anything to come forward for the committee?
Really?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, actually if I may, I have a question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: I have not had a chance yet to read the General Manager's response relative to the
communication from Shoshana Lew, the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Transportation
relative to the threat of withholding funds in order to secure the restoration of some additional Flatiron
Flyer service to Boulder, which seems a peculiarly parochial request on the part of CDOT that raises
eyebrows, and particularly in light of the extended discussion that we had on Tuesday night. And again,
with apologies because going through other Zoom calls I've had before this and other matters, I haven't
had a chance to read the General Manager's response. I was wondering if we might, for the sake of the
record, at least have some brief discussion relative to that. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely. Thank you. And General Manager, if you wouldn't mind
responding to Director Tisdale first, and then we can have any additional comments by the Executive
Committee.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just hopped onto the call in the midst of his
comments. But if I am able to surmise the request is more or less for me to address the correspondence
that the agency is in receipt of relative to the Urbanized Area 5307 allocation for the American Rescue
Plan dollars for that area? Yes.
So this goes hand-in-hand in reference to some meetings that have been ensuing since early April
recognizing that there appears to be some difference of opinion about what can be done with the use of
those monies, as prescribed with the Regional Transportation District being a direct recipient of federal
dollars as is designated by the Federal Transit Administration using census data to deem the size of
urbanized areas and things of the like.
So with that as a backdrop, there's been several conversations that have ensued. And with that as a
backdrop, as you may be aware, that meetings have been held in conjunction with representatives from
Boulder County, as well as with CDOT and with the Federal Transit Administration in and of itself. And
there were inquiries whether or not they could become a direct recipient, which they could be if they
would stand up a civil rights program as it relates to Title VI. And there was correspondence that was sent
by the Federal Transit Administration outlining that.
So in relationship to the letter in which was addressed to me that I read in detail yesterday and then
alerted you all to, it pertains to the fact that the Federal Transit Administration said that they would need a
response by CDOT, as they are designated as the sort of, for lack of a better term, authorizer pursuant to
how it's set up with a smaller urbanized area of 200,000 or less via a governor of that state.
So with that as a backdrop, recognizing that there is a deadline in which CDOT needs to act by October
31, apprising the Federal Transit Administration, specifically Region VIII, I received this letter that more or
less gives this agency an ultimatum. And quite naturally in light of the conversations that ensued, at the
course of the Board committee meeting being the operation to Customer Service Committee, recognizing
that we do have to comply to Title VI, and it's been very apparent that FTA has said we have done such,
that there's no way possible that this agency could comply with those stipulations due to the fact that we
would not be in compliance with Title VI, first and foremost, the financial constraints, and then quite
naturally the labor shortage.
So recognizing that's where we stand, I am not one that believes it's in the best interest of this agency to
play out whatever this miscommunication is or misunderstanding, how qualified as in the media. I don't
think that bodes well for the agency nor me as the leader.
So with that as a backdrop, as I indicated, I will respond to the letter. It's highly unlikely that I will respond
by tomorrow in reference to prioritizations and a myriad of the things I have going on. And more
specifically, recognizing that you as a committee basically unanimously approved the service changes, I
unilaterally can't change those actions.
So with that as a backdrop, I believe that our course of action is to respond in due time as it relates-- at
the conclusion of said Board meeting go forward. So I hope that addresses the question, Director Tisdale.
If not, please share with me if, in fact, there's other elements that I can outline as I am talking off the top
of my head, recognizing that this was not agendized. So thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Thank you very much, Madam Chair. No, I think it's a perfectly adequate
response. And I think it very accurately and appropriately summarizes the situation, and particularly the
committee meeting that we had on Tuesday evening discussing this all at length. So I appreciate that. I

thought it was important that we at least make a record on this point because, although there are
probably not people tuning in now to listen to this, there might be some media inquiry that comes along
later saying, well, what's RTD doing about this?
And I think it is fair, as you have highlighted, to say we have addressed all of this. And we are constrained
by federal law relative to what we can do. And with that constraint in mind, we have taken appropriate
action. And for CDOT, through its Executive Director, to say in effect, we want to take over your planning
and scheduling function and use the power of the purse in order to impose a particular request from a
particular region, wherein the governor resides, to accomplish this is something that, I think, it's fair that
we make a record so that people could refer to it in the future. And I thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale, I'd like to thank you for bringing up this subject, and talking
about it, and having our General Manager respond to it. I think this is a very, very important piece for this
Board to stand behind our General Manager as she moves forward with an appropriate response to
CDOT and to the governor.
Let me just note for the record that Treasurer Rosenthal has joined the meeting. Welcome, Mr.
Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are there any other comments from any other Executive Committee
members regarding this issue or any other matters? OK. Well, this evening, First Vice Chair Guissinger,
you have your telephone town hall meeting, so good luck with that. I'll be listening in.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Promises to be interesting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, it promises to be a good conversation, I'm sure. General Manager, is
there anything that you want to bring under Other Matters to the Executive Committee?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, Madam Chair. Thank you for asking.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: No, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Is there any other old business to come before this committee? No
other matters? Boy, I can't believe this.
All right. Well, then it is-- I got to look at my clock. This is just too interesting-- 11:42. Do I have a vote to
adjourn?
VINCE BUZEK: Let's go.
SPEAKER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second. Third.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. We are adjourned as of 11:42. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
Have a great week. And I'll see you next Tuesday.
SHELLEY COOK: Bye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

