2023-12-04
Performance Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good morning, everyone. The Monday, December 4, 2023 Performance Committee
meeting will now come to order. We are convened as of 8:31 AM Mountain Standard Time. I'd respectfully
ask everyone attending the meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thanks
for joining us.
Please note that this committee meeting of the RTD Board of Directors is being held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recording, along with unofficial minutes of this
meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit RTD-Denver.com. And a live
stream of this meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page. I'll now go ahead and call for the roll of
committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman. Let's see. He is here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here. Sorry. I thought I-ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. And Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Director Davidson. I am here. That is six committee members present and
zero absent. I do not see any other Directors with us this morning, but just would ask the Board Office to
please flag me down and let me know if I need to note any for the record as we might be joined later.
We'll now move into the public comment section. I'll open up for public comment to anyone who would like
to address this committee regarding any topic in this published meeting agenda or the immediately
preceding month's published agenda.
If you wish to speak and have not done so, you can raise your virtual hand or press star 9 if you are on
the phone. During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct responses. However, you're always
welcome to email comments to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Do we have
anybody on the line or that has submitted comments?

JACK KROLL: Director Davidson, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. We do not
have any one in attendance who has indicated a desire to speak. And we did not receive any emailed
public comments in advance of our meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, well, thank you, Mr. Kroll. Much appreciated. So with no other participants-- or
no participants I should say, we'll close the public comment period and move into our recommended
actions. There are two recommended actions on the agenda this morning. And the first recommended
action is for the approval of the 2023 General Manager and CEO's performance appraisal and related
compensation.
This is for the Board of Directors to approve General Manager and CEO, GM/CEO, Debra A. Johnson's
attached performance appraisal for the period of January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023, known as
the performance period. And in connection therewith to approve no corresponding monetary incentive
award and no corresponding change to the 2024 adjusted base salary. Do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved, Sloan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: There's a motion from Director Sloan, and a second from Chair Guissinger. Is there
any discussion on this motion-- on this action? All right, I thought there might be. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I have a question. Also, the comment that the net promoter score, even though it's
in the contract, is in my opinion something that we need to work on since it doesn't necessarily reflect-- it's
a very literal and not subjective evaluation. But I was curious, did we receive all 15 Directors evaluations?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We did not. Thank you for the question. We received 13 out of 15 Directors submitting
comments and evaluations.
PEGGY CATLIN: Because the math didn't work for me. So that's why I was just curious. OK, thank you
for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Is that all? Great. Vice Chair Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I had the same question. And this is an additional question just for future
edification. We did all do the subjective comments, both in person and in writing. And my expectation was
after, there was so much notice of the fact they would not be anonymous.
And in the past, the whole group has received all the comments. In this case, there were no comments
provided to the Board. And I was wondering what was behind that decision? Although I can think of some
reasons for it. And two, how was that decision reached?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Sloan, for the question. So a couple of things. And, also, first
of all, I'd like to just note for the sake of the record that we're joined by Director Rosenthal. So thank you
for joining us, sir. So, yeah, Director Sloan, right. So last year, we-- and I believe I may have misspoken at
a prior meeting, so I want to apologize for that in stating that the comments were part of the public report.
Actually, last year, the comments were anonymous, but were not attached to the report given the
sensitive nature of the comments. So we, this year, did not have the comments be anonymous so that our
CEO-- our General Manager and CEO could directly see the comments coming from each individual

Director, which would afford her the opportunity to ask for any clarifications and engage in one-on-one
discussions with Directors.
With respect to comments being distributed to the full Board, that's something I'd like to defer to Chair
Guissinger and our legal counsel. We could have some discussion to make a determination around
sharing that because, directly to your point, you're right. Although they were not in the full report, they
were confidentially shared with the full Board.
And before speaking to that, I'd like to just take a look at the additional ramifications of that. I do see that
General Manager and CEO Johnson has raised her hand. And perhaps you have a comment pertinent to
this. So please go ahead if that's the case.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good morning to all of you. Just a point of
clarification, Director Sloan had indicated that I had received subjective comments from all members
when we convened. I just wanted to point that out that not all members were in attendance since I did not
receive subjective comments orally or verbally from all members. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. And for clarity on the record, the General Manager and CEO is
referring to our Executive Session that was held for the discussion of her performance, at which we did
have attendance of 14 out of 15 Directors. And as noted earlier, the evaluation criteria-- 13 out of 15
submitted their comments.
I should also note, Director Sloan, that the General Manager and CEO has received all comments from all
Directors and has all of those comments in our non-anonymous format, thereby giving her a chance to
reach out if she has any questions of clarification for any of the Directors. So my apologies for any area
that I misspoke on that. Chair Guissinger, do you have a question or comment on this topic? Please, go
ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do. Thanks. It's a very good question, Director Sloan. I don't know that a decision
has been made on sharing with the Board. And so I'm happy to engage that with our CEO and with
Director Davidson. And I think it's something we need to look at and make a decision. OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. Agreed, Chair Guissinger. And Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Just a thought. Perhaps the source of the comments could be scrubbed,
and other Directors could see the general nature of the comments without identifying from whom they
came just to better understand what other Directors might be feeling or evaluate. That's just a thought I
had.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, that's a great thought. No matter what the-- I don't want to stop this discussion
here. But no matter what, I will take an action to look at what is possible and what we can do in terms of
sharing the comments with the full Board. But then also to the question about why these wouldn't be
necessarily publicly, these were sensitive matters regarding to personnel matters. As discussed in the
Executive session, there is overlap with the Executive session, which is ultimately why these will remain-the comments will remain confidential. So, Director Sloan, is there any comments, feedback, thoughts
regarding this topic?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No, it sounds like it's still an open question and maybe can be dealt with later. But I
was just curious because that had changed from prior years. Thanks.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Other questions or discussion items? I just wanted to make
a note as we do vote on this that the attached appraisal reflects the Board's assessment of the GM and
CEO's performance not meeting expectations with regards to three out of four of the success outcomes,
and that she did meet all expectations with respect to the organizational values.
And I just wanted to say, not surprisingly, as the Chair of the Performance Committee, I'd like to express
my strong belief, as I believe many of us agree with, that there's an opportunity to dramatically improve
the metrics we use to measure the short-term annual performance of the General Manager and CEO of
RTD. This Board and this GM/CEO did work together, and did agree on the net promoter scores as a way
to determine whether we are making gains in the areas of customer excellence, community value and
employee ownership.
I think it has become increasingly clear that changes to net promoter score in the transit space take
consistent and deliberate action over a sustained period of time almost certainly longer than a year. So
while I personally believe it remains for us to measure and improve NPS over time, I do believe it's
paramount for us to revise the way we measure the annual performance.
And I also just wanted to note for the sake of the record with delivering this that as the Chair of this
Committee, it is my opinion that there is very strong support from Directors agreeing that Ms. Johnson
has met the organizational values of the agency, and that this strong agreement exhibits support for her
overall performance. And it's in my view that this was only possible because Ms. Johnson met those
organizational values by indeed focusing on our strategic priorities, and indeed by doing things that have
and will improve RTD's ability to deliver improved customer excellence, enhance our RTD's community
value, build more employee ownership within the agency, and continue to ensure RTD's financial
success.
Such activities that she did this year to achieve that include major milestones, such as the completion of
the Fare Study and Equity analysis that resulted in a fair structure that's more affordable, equitable, and
simple than all of our prior fare structures. Another such activity involved putting our enhanced financial
stability that we have achieved to work to initiate a year-long pilot offering zero fare for youth. That's
leveraging financial success that we have achieved to improve community value and customer
excellence.
So it is my opinion that our CEO and General-- our General Manager and CEO is performing very well. I
think we see strong support for her in this analysis, particularly on the organizational values. With that, I'll
close my comments and just say thank you, Ms. Johnson, for your work. With that, with no other
discussion or questions, I will go ahead and ask, are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, the
motion carries with six ayes and zero noes.
The next action is the Fifth Amendment to the General Manager and CEO Employment Contract. This is
for the Board of Directors to adopt a Fifth Amendment to the Employment Agreement with General
Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson to adjust the annual deadline by which the Board shall adopt the
weighted success outcomes, organizational values and goals, and the distribution of the compensation
increase between base salary and incentive compensation for the upcoming performance period from
December 31 to January 31, as set forth in the proposed Amendment. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.

PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Chair Guissinger as the movement and Committee Vice Chair Sloan as the
second. Before opening up to discussion from others, I just wanted to state it is my belief, as is stated in
the packet, that if we move to the January 31 deadline on a go-forward basis, we allow ourselves the time
to complete the evaluation process and leverage that context to set goals for the next performance
period.
I also believe it is important that, given the way this Board is structured and the way we are elected, to
ensure that a Board that has been in place for a performance period completes its evaluation by the end
of the year, December 31, just as we have it. However, that any new incoming Directors who may be
coming in January have an opportunity to weigh in on the goals that are being set for the performance
period in the month that they are joining.
I know we have an ongoing discussion right now regarding next year's goals. I just want to make sure that
this is very clear. We're making this Amendment-- or putting this Amendment forward to make this
adjustment on a go-forward basis as better process. I also believe that this is going to give us some time
to revisit structures that we have in place with respect to the compensation increase math that is
leveraged based on those net promoter score goals.
So with that, I just wanted to provide that additional context. I'll open up for any questions or comments
from Directors. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: How is this going to affect the calendar for work for this committee? At the end of
this packet, it says our next meeting isn't until March. And this will push meetings up sooner-- or earlier in
the year, I guess, to finish that work. Has any thought been given to what the workflow and the calendar
looks like?
ERIK DAVIDSON: That is a great question, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Allow me to just say, I think we should be meeting more often, not less because of
the type of work that this committee does. And so March seems really far away for me to be working on
performance, or goals, or anything else. So we also get slammed at the end of the year with the budget
process. And December is a month that we don't typically have many meetings, so this makes a lot of
sense on that end.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Guzman. It's a great question. And almost certainly, the
Performance Committee is going to need to meet in January. And we'll need to meet to work on this. I
have agreed with our General Manager and CEO, our Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege, who has
been a very helpful subject matter expert in this. Our General Counsel Snyder and Chair Guissinger, we
had a chance to discuss this last week.
And I have committed to put together a framework for us to react to in collaboration with Ms. Polege as
our subject matter expert, and in collaboration with Ms. Johnson, who has put forward her recommended
goals for the 2024 performance period. At that point, I also put together some suggestions about how we
engage and accomplish this work by January 31.
One suggestion that has been floated and certainly open to any reactions folks may have here is to
actually leverage the time at the special Board meeting early in January at which we elect officers to
continue the discussion with respect to goals that was started in the Executive session in November.

So leveraging that meeting when all Directors are together since this is a full Board interest and matter is
one suggestion. And then directly to your point, certainly, the Performance Committee itself will need to
meet at least once in January to move things forward. So happy to open up to any reactions, questions,
thoughts that folks have on that. But I am working on what the cadence would need to be in January,
although this is my last official meeting as Chair of this committee here, as well as a framework for us to
react to so we can accomplish this in January. Any other questions? Oh, yeah, please. Director Guzman,
please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thoughts from the CEO? Are we good with this? Do you think that change is a good
one, if that's OK to ask?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly for the question, Director Guzman. I'm the one that actually
put forward the recommendation to extend it to January 31 for the issues that Chair Guissinger-- sorry,
Chair Davidson outlined. And more specifically, I'm going to step outside of myself for a minute. And
when we had this conversation, recognizing the timeline that you emphasized. When Chair Davidson and
I had a conversation about this.
I asked him, would he be committed to shepherding this? Because to the point that you raised, usually in
March, we get crammed. And then it's like Groundhog's Day all over again. So recognizing what I just
outlined, I'm fine with the approach going forward recognizing the January 31 as the date. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guzman. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, just to emphasize the point that you made that this will be an annual change.
It's not just for this year, but is for moving forward. I think it's a really good change. Not only the date, but
changing the goals from the NPS. We may have the NPS scores, but having other objective criteria that
really shows the changes in the agency and the changes that Ms. Johnson has brought about I think is
really important.
I'm happy to help with what you're putting together, Erik. And it may be that it makes sense to get
something out to people even before the end of this month. We'll see how that shapes up so people can
start thinking about it because January 31, as we know, will come up quickly on this topic. So thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I agree. And we're about to benefit from fewer meetings in the month of December,
which affords, I think, Directors the opportunity to do some more work in preparation. So wholeheartedly
agree. Other questions, comments, discussion? All right, with that, I'll ask, are there any no votes on this
action?
All right. With that, the motion passes. That's, again, six ayes, zero noes. Thank you for that. We'll now
move into other matters. Are there any other matters to come before this committee this morning? Yes,
Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Doing all my checking lower hand, I would just like to raise the elephant in the room
that, again, traditionally, we do salary setting in December. And it would probably be at the Performance
Committee meeting. And I've not heard any discussion of that going forward at this time.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Sloan. We do have an agenda item this evening to discuss
the outcome of the compensation philosophy, our compensation analysis. And a potential path forward for
responding to that will be on the agenda this evening. With respect to performance, I'll just state very
bluntly my belief at least that we need to revise and amend the performance compensation with respect
to the meeting of goals and success outcomes.
I think it's especially important to note, for example, that the current contract with the General Manager
and CEO requires that all performance metrics are achieved in order to be eligible for base salary
increase or incentive compensation. That's interesting because we have math in exhibit B of the
agreement that shows the distribution between success outcomes and organizational values, or objective
and subjective criteria.
And while we have that distribution, it actually requires meeting all metrics to be eligible. So I think that we
have to revise the performance pay. That's something that I think we should revisit in conjunction with
what we're doing on goals for the performance period in 2024 in January. So there's two things here.
There's base salary based on market, and there is incentive compensation. Both need to be revisited.
The base salary with respect to market needs to be revisited with respect to our compensation philosophy
and the compensation analysis that we aged the band on from the Gallagher report. And then completely
separate issue, we have the performance-based compensation that I think needs to be revisited later.
Tonight, we will be addressing and discussing the first of those items, which is how to respond to the
compensation analysis and compensation philosophy. Does that answer your question, Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: In a way, but it raises another question. And that is, do we have a contractual or
ethical deadline to provide our GM/CEO with their compensation going forward before the year begins?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So taking the two separately, I'd like to defer to General Counsel Snyder on any
obligations that we have with respect to compensation analysis in the contract and our compensation
philosophy, and whether we have any obligations to answer that. And then I believe I can answer the
second portion of that, which is with respect to the performance period. So, General Counsel Snyder, is
there any comments you would like to make on this?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Thank you, Mr Chair. So for clarity, the recommended action that this
committee just passed did-- as read by Chair Davidson, it did state that this committee is not adopting any
compensation adjustments associated with the adoption of the appraisal. So that actually did happen
consistent with the contract.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So that's to the performance. Thank you for that, General Counsel Snyder. So as far
as the performance portion of the pay, which is increase base salary and incentive compensation, we are
adopting before December 31 no increase and no incentive compensation based on the adopted
weighted success outcomes and the goals. So we've adopted that by December 31.
The Amendment we passed will move any adjustments to performance-based compensation to January
31. We'll be adopting both the goals and also the framework for incentive compensation in January.
That's what I'm saying. I think both of those needs to be revisited. Not just the goals, but also the
framework we use for performance compensation. So that's, I think, what General Counsel Snyder was
referring to is the performance-based compensation.

The adapting to market and market data is something that we'll be discussing this evening for forthcoming
recommended action in the month of January. Dr. Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: That's all at this time. It's an unusual approach.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I agree with Director Sloan. For the record, though, there will be a Cola
adjustment to the salary automatically, correct?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Correct. That has already taken place. It was a 5.4% increase.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager Johnson, did you have a comment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. No, I took my hand down.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. You know what? We as elected Board members have the responsibility to
evaluate the GM/CEO's performance. And I am very disappointed that we had two directors that did not
take that job seriously for whatever reason. Maybe there was a good excuse. I just wanted to state
publicly that I believe that we should have 15 Directors participating in this exercise. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. I completely agree.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sorry to lecture, but I'm just disappointed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. I completely agree. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I want to raise two things. One, here here, Director Catlin. I absolutely agree with
you. It is frustrating to no end that the entire Board did not participate in this. I don't think there is a
healthy excuse for why somebody wouldn't have gotten this done. We gave plenty of time and an
extension.
Second thing is, how do we proceed forward with what our goals will look like? How do we set better
metrics going forward into the future for this type of evaluation? I am absolutely frustrated beyond no end
that we get back this wonderful news that we're doing well in comparison to the nation, but because-even though I trust that the math was done correctly, even though we didn't beat the scores from last year
here locally, which I find really hard to believe if we're doing as well as we are compared to other places
in our country.
How do we as a Board adjust and correct path to provide realistic goals that are both challenging, gap
goals that are going to require a stretch, and then a fair evaluation to Ms. Debra Johnson, who is doing an
incredible job right now, which is full of frustration and full of technicality. And I would not want to be in the
hot seat at this point of the CEO/GM of RTD because there's so much to do. But she's making amazing
strides.

And that's me personally. I just wouldn't want that job, right? It would not be the job that I would take. But
as a Director from the outside looking in at the agency and as a member of the community, how do we as
a group improve this process and ensure that we don't have less than 100% participation next year, more
thorough feedback on an ongoing basis, and all of that work that needs to be put into this, right? So it's
not just one big cluster bomb.
Even in January, if we give ourselves the extension of time to do this, that throughout the year, we're
providing the right kinds of feedback and hearing and listening to our GM/CEO give us the information we
need to help support her in role and to help make policy decisions, and provide direction that is needed
throughout the year in a way that will allow us to keep moving on challenging goals, but also improve the
system, keep everything in a state of good repair, make sure we've got people hired, all of the wonderful
things that we're doing.
How do we do that? Does anybody have even a compass to go on a path somewhere? Because I'm not
sure that I even understand after looking at last year's, this year's process how we're going to do this next
year and not end up a rinse, wash, and repeat cycle. Something is broken, and it needs to change. But
I'm not quite sure I understand what that is.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Guzman. Those are, I think, really salient, probing
questions, and I agree with where they're coming from. I'll just say there's two things top of my mind, and
see what reactions some others have.
One is the work plan next year should include a discussion around goals for the 2025 performance period
about halfway through the year. So I think we need to be starting the goals discussion, even though we
would pass them in January 31. I think that discussion, that work needs to begin towards the middle of
the year ongoing and take up a lot of what the second half of the year looks like.
The second recommendation I would have would be that the Performance Committee-- and this is the
work that needs to be done in January. And I don't expect that the 2024 period will be perfect, but every
period should get better thereafter-- should have high-level metrics that the agency tracks on an annual
basis, like we did with NPS, but metrics that give us a more near-term look at how we're moving.
And then what I would hope is that Performance Committee would be in a more regular cadence on,
perhaps, at least a quarterly basis, receiving updates on how we're doing against all of those
measurements. So we need to adopt some of those things that we can measure. The General Manager
put forward her recommended goals for us. Those are things that we could be doing report-outs or checkins on a quarterly basis.
So, in my mind, just to summarize, I think we need to be talking about goals earlier in the year. And I also
believe that we need a series of metrics like NPS, but are more near-term so that the Performance
Committee can actually get a look at how things are going on a more frequent basis. And, General
Manager, I see your hand is up, so please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr Chair. I wanted to offer up some comments to Director
Guzman's statements. First and foremost, I want you all to recognize that this agency is on the precipice
of change. And I don't know how many people have taken-- have been involved with change
management, but it doesn't happen overnight. So when I did assume this job, what attracted me to this
job was actually being able to come in and help the organization holistically because I'm one that leans
into opportunity.

And with that being said, as the name of our strategic plan, you cannot spell the word challenge without
change. So I don't expect to see anything that happens for the betterment. There's going to be
incremental steps. And if we continue on this path, we will eventually see change. But I don't predict that
for the next few years.
So with that as a backdrop, just for everybody's edification, we as an agency do have metrics that we
track. We have key performance indicators. And generally, in the transit industry, they're typically lagging,
not leading indicators. We are having conversations relative to leading indicators as it relates to what you
all look at holistically, recognizing your constituents want to know when their bus, when their light rail car,
or their commuter rail constantly isn't showing up.
All of these things that we do from a key performance indicator feed into our service availability and our
on-time performance. And quite naturally, we are a labor-intensive organization. So as we talk about
hiring and hiring, once again, as I have said numerous times, we are focused on retention. In order to do
retention, we have to be leaning into the moment to ensure that we create an environment where people
can do their ultimate best. And this organization decimated the opportunity for organizational
development, and learning and training, and things of the like.
So I just wanted to share that holistically because I don't want anybody walking away from this meeting
thinking that we don't have metrics. Because trust and believe if we didn't have metrics, we wouldn't be
recipient of federal dollars because we provide data into the National Data Transit Base that enables us
to factor in how much money we're eligible through Section 5307. That's how we get those federal funds.
So I just wanted to take that opportunity to say that we, i.e. me as well as the Board, we're in the midst of
a two party agreement. So we need to collectively agree what that is because I do think NPS is valuable,
but those are long-term goals. And basically, they're short-term goals. And so what I would endeavor to
do with you all's support is ensuring that you have an understanding of what we're doing and where we're
going.
And it doesn't necessarily mean that you have to understand what MDBF is-- Mean Distance Between
Failure-- because it's different on rail than it is on bus. But that enables us to ensure that we can provide
service. And so basically, having the opportunity to educate and inform you all about that will put you in a
better place so you can be more responsive to your constituency. So thank you very much, Director
Guzman, for the question and Chair Davidson for the opportunity to offer up those comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. I think well-stated. And the
idea of whether this Board and I-- and thank you for acknowledging the two party engagement. I think
there is always that separation between what we're measuring as an agency and what we're agreeing as
a Board and General Manager and CEO to measure against performance of the General Manager and
CEO position.
I think that's exactly a discussion to have around leading and lagging indicators, and around how those tie
into the short-term, near-term goals, which I look forward to collaborating with you all on in January. Other
comments, questions? Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thanks. I agree with all of that. I'm looking forward to changing the goals. I
want to go back to a conversation we had a little while ago that Director Sloan and Director Catlin
weighed in on, which is sharing the answers to the comments with the whole Board and get this
committee's weigh-in on a good approach.

I think there's some value in Director Catlin's suggestions that we not put people's names on them. We
haven't really had this discussion. I don't want to surprise people. The fact that we did it last year should
help not surprise people. But what do you think? I tend towards sharing them and potentially not having
the names on them. But rather than make it a top-down decision, I'd like at least to hear from this
committee.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Would anyone like to comment? Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I don't think I need to share those. I know what I think and I know what I believe.
And my beliefs regarding the General Manager's performance will not change based on what other
people think. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sure. I can see both sides to it. I do like the idea of leaving the names off. But in
terms of surprise, it seemed that went in the other direction-- that we didn't get them with this packet
because that was the previous expectation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I was really prompted to advocate for making sure that we approach this work in
a manner that was transparent for the CEO. And I said, you don't write a Yelp review for somebody's work
review, period. You have to put your name on it.
I don't know that there's a right or wrong answer to this. I do believe that we should probably get some
weigh-in from CEO/GM Johnson on this and where she stands. I believe that's fair to ask our employees.
We are the committee responsible for this work.
However, if we do make it public-- let me rephrase that. If we do under our privilege as Directors share
this information with one another, the responsible manner of dealing with this is to respect that
everybody's going to have a different opinion. We share a lot in common clearly. The scores are not
100% by accident on some of those criteria. And so we need to keep that in mind.
Names don't need to be attached. And as Director Buzek said, we've already turned these in. It's not
going to change the outcome. So at this point, it's maybe a postmortem on how the review process went.
However, I do believe that by providing the work in a manner that was thoughtful, that could be shared,
that could be made public with a Director's name on it also prompted and necessitated a way of writing
the review that creates a different type of outcome, right, which is if I put my name on it and this becomes
public, then I am going have to answer it for what I wrote in that document.
So we're not under any obligation legally to share the narrative part of our review. It's my understanding
both now and last year that conversation came up that's a choice that we as a Board can make. How we
share that information with each other or with the public is a totally different conversation. And I think
that's what we're getting at here, so I'm good either way.
I don't know that I need to see necessarily anybody else's review remarks. I know that Debra knows what
I said. And if she has questions about my review, she can come to me directly because my name was on
it. And that was the point. I don't necessarily need to know who didn't participate because that's not going
to help at this point. The reviews have been submitted. But I do think going forward, maybe we as a body

need to have a conversation about the expectation that everybody will participate and that there will be no
misses next year on any of this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, one other thought is that we might consider making public the members who
submitted their evaluations as opposed to singling out the people who didn't. I think it's important as a
Board for us all to have a responsibility. And I don't think there should be an anonymous non-participator.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick question. When you say making public, do you mean sharing it with the
Board?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Right. Sharing with the Board, saying we have evaluations from these people. And it
could lend peer pressure to providing more input in the future from the entire Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. My thoughts about sharing the comments without names was in
response to Director Sloan's question about why they weren't in the packet. I really don't personally need
to see those comments. I just offered it up as a suggestion. So I'm good either way.
I just wanted to state for the record that I was very disappointed that two people chose not to participate
since that's something they were elected to do. And I don't want to publicly shame them or do anything
like that. I just wanted to state that for the record.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Guissinger, did that give you the kind of feedback
you were looking for in that discussion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's helpful. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Any other discussion on that or any other matters? I'd just like to note I know this is
difficult, but thank you for going on this journey this year. This is the final Performance Committee of
2023. Again, I urge us all to collaborate in January to improve the manner in which we measure General
Manager and CEO performance, and to do that in a more granular, more near-term way, and in a manner
that has a material impact on the performance pay in the contract.
So I thank you for the work this year. Appreciate it. We will be meeting this evening. Again, December 4,
2023 at a special Board meeting to bring these recommended actions forward, as well as to have some
further discussion regarding compensation.
The next calendared meeting date, as noted by Director Guzman of the Performance Committee, is
March 18, 2024. But as discussed, I believe the expectation is there will be at least one, if not more than
one, Performance Committee meeting in the month of January 2024. So with no further discussion, this
meeting will be adjourned as of 9:18 AM Mountain Standard Time. Thank you, everybody.

