Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 19, 2010
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
Corrected Minutes 10/27/10
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

October 19, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
October 19, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:
Directors
Absent:
Staff Present:

Committee Vice-Chair Daly, Directors; Christopher, Malpiede, Martinez,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam and Tobiassen
Chair Kemp; Directors; Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Cohen, James, and Tayer
Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Dave
Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien,
Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod,
Anthony Menendez, Todd Nikkel, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed,
Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey, Cherie Sprague,
John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, and Mike Washington

Others Present:
*******************************************************************
Call to Order:
Committee Vice-Chair Daly called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 5:59 p.m.
Bruce Abel asked for the permission from the Board to add an additional action item “Free Rides
for Members of the Military”. Directors Tobiassen, Christopher and O’Boyle accepted the new
action item and therefore it was added to the agenda.
Motion:
Director O’Boyle made the motion to add the
Free Rides for Members of the Military and to
move it forward for approval at the October 26
Board meeting.
Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director McMullen thought this was a wonderful
ideas and asked staff to look for ways to better
advertise this to the public.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 19, 2010
Page 2 of 5

Director Martinez reminded the members that
this is something that we do on an annual basis;
there is normally a press release in November.
We do this in honor of our veterans and
recognition of Veteran’s Day.
Director McMullen thought it might be nice to
have someone such as Lisa Trujillo’s daughter
who is in the Air Force Academy to be a part of
the public announcement.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion Passed Unanimously.

1. Recommended Action
Bruce Abel presented these next two items. He stated they had conducted 16 public
hearings and conducted an online survey of whether the public would prefer service
reductions or fare changes. The majority of the customers preferred a fare increase to
service reduction. With this information, they made two minor changes to the original
recommendation.
Approval of Recommendation Fare Changes for 2011

Motion:

Director Christopher made the motion to move
the recommended fare changes for 2011 to the
full Board on October 26.

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Malpiede was pleased with the list of
approximately 180 nonprofit agencies
participating in the RTD program and thought
this was quite inclusive.
Director O’Boyle inquired if we have a feel of the
501c3/nonprofit agencies that exist. Bruce Abel
responded “lots”.
Director Martinez expressed disappointment to
the number of people who turned out for the
public hearing. He stated he would vote no on
this item so it can be discussed at the Board
meeting on Tuesday night under recommended
action.
Director Christopher shared his experience as a
former public official and stated that low turnout
for public hearings are not uncommon. It may
be due to the time of day, location and that
some people can be intimidated by the formal

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 19, 2010
Page 3 of 5

process. He encouraged staff to look for other
ways to augment that formal process.
Director Tobiassen commented that some of the
drivers expressed concern over the impact of the
fare increase on them.
Director Daly commented about 2 to 1 of the
public being in favor of fare increase over
service reduction. Director McMullen suggested
we might look at fare increase over reserves for
future changes. Director Christopher cautioned
there is a tipping point and any increase will
require a thorough analysis.
Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed 7 in favor (Christopher,
Daly, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam and
Tobiassen) and 1 against (Martinez).

Approval of Recommendation Service Changes for January 2011
Bruce Abel stated that the approval of the service changes consisted of minor changes for
routes 205,402 and R. He also noted that in keeping with the Board direction to not
preclude transportation in service areas that will leave them without options, they will
withdraw the recommendation on the CC and 63X routes. This will reduce the projected
annualized cost savings from the initial $2,570,000 to $2,412,600 which is still within
the desired range for savings.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made the motion to move the
recommended services changes for January
2011 to the full Board on October 26 with the
amendment to remove routes CC and 63X from
consideration.

Second:

Director Martinez seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Malpiede asked for clarifications on the
route 28 & route 43. Jessie Carter responded.
Director Tobiassen indicated his understanding
that ridership is light on Fridays to Waterton
Canyon and asked if adjustments could be made
for Friday. Staff indicated that is not a
pragmatic thing to do. Director O’Boyle
followed up with a question on 4-day work
week. Jessie Carter indicated he will take a look
at the ride check data to see if it gives any
indications of impact. Director Martinez

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 19, 2010
Page 4 of 5

indicated that the customer has offered to do
internal marketing on the route 63X. Staff
needs to make sure we follow-up and hold them
to this for future considerations. Several
Directors had suggestions for what we might
need to do.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed 7 in favor (Christopher, Daly,
Malpiede, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, and
Pulliam) and 1 against (Tobiassen).

2. Information Items
Bruce Abel indicated all of the informational items had been included in the Board packets.
He asked for questions pertaining to these items.
 Detailed Analysis of Survey Results regarding tradeoffs between increases and
service cuts
 Background information – Fare/Revenue/Ridership
 Background Information on the Non-profit Agency Reduced Fare Program
 Analysis of Customer Complaints
Questions/Comments:
Director O’Boyle wanted to know what plans do we have to include a greater degree of
technology in scheduling of arrivals—driver related complaints. What can we do to assist
the drivers in meeting their goals?
Director Martinez expressed concerns that in many of the categories we will exceed and
therefore negate any improvements achieved in 2007, 2008 and 2009. When he looks at
the number of complaints, he sees an average monthly increase of approximately 367 in
2010 compared with these previous years. He wonders if there is any correlation with
these fare increase battles and the increase in complaints. He would like to know if this
plays a factor in customer satisfaction or if we need to be concerned about these
complaints to retain ridership. There is a point at which customers may stop riding mass
transit and we need to be thinking about this.
Director Tobiassen offered a different perspective. He is impressed with the level of
service we provide considering all the struggles that the drivers have to put up with such
as incorrigible behavior. The drivers do an outstanding job; schedules are tough. He is
impressed with the drivers and their patience.
Director Martinez responded that his concerns were based on possible loss of ridership
down the road and how could we be proactive.
Director Daly commented on hearing about loaded buses passing up passengers. He asked
if drivers still need to call in when a bus is overloaded. Dean Shaklee responded this is still
the process.
Director Malpiede inquired how long (how many times) does it take for a bus to be late
before the schedule is adjusted. Bruce Abel responded it depends-there is no magic
number but a combination of factors.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on October 19, 2010
Page 5 of 5

3. Other Matters
Dean Shaklee provided an update on the 12 FB cutaway vans they plan to use as a pilot.
These are the light weight vehicles that will be used for access-a-Ride demo pilot. These
vehicles have an expected 8 miles per gallon over the larger vehicles. They have decided
to award the contract to StarTran. This is within the staff authority to act but he asked if
the Board was OK with this decisions or if they need to bring this back before the Board.
The Board provided their consensus for them to proceed.

4. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned to Financial Administration and Audit at 6:58 p.m.

