Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, November 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Archuleta called the meeting to order at 7:13 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Committee Vice-Chair
Present
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Present

Arrived
7:20 PM
7:19 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Absent

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Remote
Absent

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:21 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:20 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

7:20 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Committee Chair
Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Absent
Present
Absent

7:20 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

7:20 PM

7:17 PM
7:19 PM

Director Folska participated via phone. Directors Anderson, Deadwyler, Francone, Menten,
and Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacy Bell, Steve Bodie, Nicole Carey, Lou
Cripps, Nate Currey, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Kathryne Grove, Anne Hillyer, Robin McIntosh, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen
Miller, Ed Neuberg, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Zamy Silva, Bill
Sirois, Yong Song, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Doug Gragg, William Gross, Emily
Snyder, Paolo Solorzano, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions
There were no Recommended Actions.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Committee Updates
Zamy Silva, Senior Manager of Civil Rights, introduced two new employees
to the Civil Rights Division: Kathryne Grove, Equal Employment Opportunity
(EEO) Manager, and Anne Hillyer, ADA Investigator/Specialist.
Ms. Silva stated that this year RTD went through the Federal Transit
Administration’s (FTA) Triennial Review and the FTA recognized RTD’s
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) and Equal Employment Office
(EEO) as model programs with best practices.
Ms. Silva added that in July RTD hosted a one day US Department of
Transportation (DOT) Career Days Discovery:
 Six girls with ages ranging from 13-19 had an opportunity to spend a
day at RTD learning about careers in transportation and construction.
 They also spent a day at Denver International Airport (DIA), Iron
Horse Architects Inc., P&H Equipment, and Wagner Equipment. This
also created media coverage in the Denver Post, Denver Business
Journal, and news channels 7, 9 and 31.
Ms. Silva commented that RTD implemented a new Advisory Committee for
People with Disabilities (ACPD):
 The mission of ACPD, through multi-directional communication,
apprises the ADA Steering Committee on ADA-community related
issues and concerns and provides suggestions, ideas, and feedback
on matters as they relate to people with disabilities. ACPD will serve
in an advisory capacity and be assisted by a designated staff liaison
to the ADA Steering Committee.







ACPD is comprised of 13 members who will serve 1, 2, or 3 year
terms.
ACPD will work with an ADA Steering Committee made up of 11
members who are RTD staff as well as ADA working groups made up
of various RTD staff across the organization.
RTD held an orientation for ACPD members on August 31, 2017.
ACPD will meet on a quarterly basis and the next meeting will be
November 9, 2017.

Ms. Silva stated that the Small Business Office (SBO) collaborated with the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the City and County of
Denver, and Denver hosted the first Colorado Small Business Collaboration
Conference on September 21st:
 VIP Presenters gave their perspectives on the future of transportation
and opportunities for small, minority, women and disadvantages
owned businesses.
 VIP Presenters included:
o Mayor B. Hancock from the City of Denver
o David A. Genova, RTD General Manager and CEO
o Shailen Bhatt, CDOT Executive Director
o Eric Hiraga, Executive Director of the Denver Office of Economic
Development
 369 people pre-registered for this event and 303 people attended. It
was an all-day event and a huge success.
Ms. Silva added that the next SBO event would be the Small Business
Breakfast of Champions, which would be held at the Radisson Hotel Denver
Southeast on Thursday, November 9th. She noted that RTD has spent over a
billion dollars in small business development and the agency wanted to
recognize that achievement.
Director Folska inquired if the Civil Rights Division was helping to recruit
operators.
Ms. Silva explained that currently the Workforce Initiative Now (WIN)
program is helping with the outreach for bus and light rail operators. She
commented that since RTD received a grant in 2015, staff is working with
the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to see if some of those funds could
be used for a more robust outreach effort to help RTD recruit operators.
Director Folska asked how many people Civil Rights helped to recruit and
hire.
Ms. Silva stated that the information would be researched and provided to
the Board the next day.

Director Lubow asked if the ADA investigator was a new position, and if so
what did that position do.
Ms. Silva explained that the position was new and was identified last year.
She noted that RTD has had a lot of ADA complaints and in 2016 staff
spent a lot of time improving ADA procedures. She added that some
complaints required more attention than others, and with Ms. Hillyer’s legal
background, she was able to work with the various RTD divisions to ensure
complaints were properly handled and investigated.
General Manager Genova remarked that the Small Business Breakfast of
Champions was sponsored so that people could attend at no charge. He
added that the Civil Rights team had been working hard on event planning
and it was a great opportunity to mark the FasTracks success with small,
women-owned, and disadvantaged business owners.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, commented that he had pulled Kathryne
Grove, RTD’s new EEO Manager, out during the break in between meetings
and said that he wanted to make sure that she was properly introduced to
the Board.

D. Other Matters
There were no Other Matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - To Be Determined
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Archuleta adjourned the meeting at 7:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

