2025-03-25
Board Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, I would like to now call the Tuesday, March 25 RTD Board meeting to order.
We're convened as of 5:33 PM. I respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you're recognized to
speak. Thank you all for joining us for this evening.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that committee
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video
recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon
as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a Livestream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we also will be providing Communication Access Real Time Translation, also
known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can
be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access the live transcript of this
meeting in Spanish.
I would now like to call on Director Whitmore to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
TROY WHITMORE: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. I will now call on Director Paglieri, would
you please read out loud the land acknowledgment.
BRETT PAGLIERI: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains
operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that
are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment
demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequality of the Native and all
historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we
move forward. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Paglieri. I'll now call the roll. Treasurer Baker.
KAREN BENKER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: On your left.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: On your right.
[LAUGHTER]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: On your video screen.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: On your other left.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We love to hear it, folks. I see 15 in attendance and 0 absent. Before I'd like to
recognize tonight's retirees, I would like to ask Director Chandler to read the Board Statement of Employee
Appreciation.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Regional Transportation District Board of Directors
recognizes that RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every day, RTD employees do
extraordinary things to make lives better through connection. We honor their work of delivering transit
excellence, service, and value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult and stressful
moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our profound gratitude,
commitment, and support toward all RTD employees.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director. I would now like to read the name of the employees
who have retired since January, or will be retiring by the end of the month. Curtis Blake, Light Rail Field
Supervisor, 25 years, Joe R. Henderson, Supervisor, Overhead Catenary System, 28 years.
Unfortunately, neither of our retirees were unable to attend tonight's meeting, but I would like to thank them
again for all their hard work and dedicated service over these many decades. Further, you may see that
Officer Doug MacLeod was set to be recognized tonight as a retiree. Doug has asked that he come back
down the line to be recognized, as the official last day as an employee has not yet come. We look forward
to recognizing Doug in the months to come. With that, please join me in recognizing our retirees, Curtis
Blake and Joe Henderson.
[APPLAUSE]

Thank you both for your service. Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would
like to address the Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go
first, followed by those who are participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to
the podium when your name is called. If you have not already signed up to speak and like to do so, please
approach the podium when called for additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual
hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak if you're dialed in.
Press star 6 to toggle your Mute settings. Please bear in mind that participating in this process, you will be
recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted via writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would
like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.directors@RTDdenver.com. During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board office at
rtd.directors@RTD-denver.com. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and will have
up to 3 minutes to provide those comments. Looks like our first speaker tonight is Jessica Beachum.
JESSICA BEACHUM: Good afternoon, everyone. I'm sorry that mic's a little hot. The National Federation
of the Blindness, that blindness is not the characteristic that defines us or our future, and that when we
have the proper tools and training, that we can live the lives we want.
For those of us in the Denver Metro area, for many of the members of the National Federation of the Blind
of Colorado, Access-on-Demand has become a critical piece of having the tools in our tool belt to be able
to fully participate as active citizens in this beautiful state of Colorado.
We are really pleased that we've had some more correspondence and conversation with staff of RTD. But
what we haven't had is a real opportunity to sit down with RTD staff, with members of the Board, with a

collective group of people who have the ability to make change and to help to develop the Access-onDemand program into a program that can be sustainable and to provide the services that we need in a way
that's really collective and participatory. And this is something that we as an organization would really like
to see.
Our organization is categorically opposed to service cuts. And so we recognize that cutting the number of
rides significantly, cutting the service area back to the service area that's offered by the Access-a-Ride
service, and cutting the times of service is going to have a significant and drastic impact on our members.
And what we would like to do is think about creative ways that we can keep this program, the Access-onDemand program that has helped so many of our members, particularly those members with multiple
disabilities, or those members who maybe don't have the orientation and mobility skills at their fingertips to
use the fixed route transit system to be able to fully participate as active, as employed, as taxpaying, as
contributing to the economy, citizens in Colorado.
I would like to thank our Board of Directors for being very thoughtful in their deliberation about changes to
Access-on-Demand. And I'd like to thank the staff for taking some extra time. But I really think that the piece
that's missing is real collaboration and a real idea that we can build a program that doesn't take anything
away from anybody, that helps to continue to build out the public transit system that we love and depend
on here in Colorado. So thank you for your time. And have a great meeting.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much for your comments, Jessica. I have next on our list Fitz Stone.
FITZ STONE: Good afternoon. My name is Fitz Stone. I am the Residential Manager for the Student
Housing at the Colorado Center for the Blind. And the Access-on-Demand program has been crucial in me
being able to perform my job, being able to repair and do the things the students need me to do to keep
them happy in their little apartments, quickly, because sometimes taking public transit or even the
paratransit system isn't going to be enough when I need to get to a Home Depot or somewhere to get what
I need to fix things.
So I just would like to thank you for starting the program. And I'd hate to see it diminished in any way. So
that's all I got. Thank you so much for your time and your service.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Fitz. Next speaker is Maureen "Nitefeld," Nietfeld.
Apologies for mispronunciation.
MAUREEN NIETFELD: Hello, everyone. I'll back up, sorry. My name is Maureen Nietfeld, and I am Director
of Student Services at the Colorado Center for the Blind. I'm also a Second Vice Present of the National
Federation of the Blind and President of our Denver chapter.
I do want to reiterate the importance of Access-on-Demand, and how critical it has been for many of us to
live the lives that we want to live. I am a person with multiple disabilities. I am employed full time. I'm a
parent of a six-year-old and a volunteer for my community. And this is the service that I use to be able to
do all of these things.
I do want to mention that none of us want to see a reduction in the amount of rides, and also a reduction in
our service area, and also want to bring up that we feel it is really important that we actually have real data
to work from, real numbers of how are cuts going to actually save money, and how are we going to be able
to move forward to create a sustainable program, not just make cuts and hope that next year we aren't all

here again facing the same problem. So we really hope for thoughtful collaboration moving forward. And I
appreciate your time. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Maureen. Our next speaker is Erin Daley.
ERIN DALEY: Hello, so my name is Erin Daley. I live in Englewood, Colorado. And I am a Access-onDemand user. And this is such an important service. And not only is it so important, it works.
And I think we have said that again and again that this service, it really does what I think RTD's mission is,
which is to connect people. And this is connecting us with jobs. There's people here who would not have
jobs if they did not have this. And I know that there has been a communication that has gone out that said
that AOD should not be used for jobs.
But I would ask any person in this room to use the paratransit system to get to their job, because first, you're
going to get there early, or late, because your pick up time is what's on time, but what's the drop off time?
Are you going to get there?
I've gotten there early for appointments, and I sometimes, from my pickup, I've had to wait an hour and a
half. And as someone who is working full-time and a grad student, there's plenty of things I could be doing
with my time besides sitting at my job when I'm not getting paid to be there. And it is not a pleasant
experience to do that.
I definitely think that the 60 rides should be kept, because that is essential. The people that are using those
60 rides are using it because they need it for their job, and oftentimes for their children. I am not one of the
people here who has children, but there are people here who have children that would not be able to take
their kids to childcare to do, like anyone in this room could do, when their kid is sick from school and they
have to go get them.
This is just such a huge lifeline for that as well. And I definitely think that, we've been talking about a base
fare, I think that that's fair with the paratransit, me personally, with being equality between that. So I
definitely think that that's a possibility if we're looking at fiscal, financial things that we can do if, especially
if we have the LiVE that we can have for people who have less means. I think that that's great for that.
I do think it's important, though, that we realize that multi-stops are something that we should also be
reconsidering. I know one of the things that is being discussed with AOD on demand and also with multistops is equity, and that this service is not available to every single person who can use the paratransit
system. But I would encourage you to realize that equity is not about taking away rights, it's about adding
to them.
We will never be able to be equal, anyone in here, for so many various reasons. But for instance, those of
us in here who are blind cannot use self-checkouts at King Soopers. We're not going to King Soopers and
asking them to remove the self checkouts. We're asking to be able to use them.
When it was available on the buses, to be able to see where the stop you were going was, we didn't demand
that to be taken away. We have audio cues that tell us what the stops are now. Equity is about being able
to add and make everything equal. And by removing this service, we are not achieving equity. We are just
moving further away from the goalpost. So that's what I have to say. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Erin. Our next speaker is Dan [INAUDIBLE]. Apologies
for any mispronunciation.

DAN: Thank you all for being here. And thanks for having us, giving us the time to say something. So first
and foremost, I am a father. I am a son to a sick father. I get real emotional about all of this because really,
this program has given me my ability to move around my world independently. And that is such a huge,
huge thing.
And I don't know if-- until anyone sitting around the table in front of me has really understood what it feels
like to have your independence taken away from you or feel that kind of loss, and then have a sliver of it
given back to you, and then have to be here to argue against how these are real foundations to help all of
us get to what we need to get to. I work at the Center as well.
I'm a full-time student in the fall, getting a master's program. Like I said, I caretake for my sick father. I need
to get places to get his medications and to his appointments. I have twins that are a year and a half. And
though I don't use my 60 now, I promise I'm going to, that is, without a doubt I'm going to.
So to hear that the bone you're throwing me is you're going to cut mine in half and give me an extra $5 to- I live in West Arvada. It took me over an hour to get here with your service that I'm so grateful for. I'm so,
so grateful for it. And to get to Littleton, sometimes just to make it affordable, I have to hopscotch to those
places. So the thought of having that number cut in half, that means I have to go to work, to work, to get to
work that day.
And I mean, I'll do it because I love my job. But I mean, when I came on this program, it was such a breath
of fresh air that part of my day working only went to getting myself there and home. So I mean, please heed
this call of working with us collaboratively. We want to come up with gainful solutions for both sides. So
thank you so much for your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Dan. Our next speaker is Maryann Migliorelli.
MARYANN MIGLIORELLI: Good evening. My name is Maryann Migliorelli. I am from Boulder. Uno wants
to have his say.
[LAUGHTER]
Regional Transportation District is all about traveling. And I want to encourage you to travel with me very
briefly to your favorite grocery store. And in that grocery store, there are many, many products, some of
which are cookies.
Some of them are in bags and boxes, and they're sitting on the shelf. And others are fresh baked. Imagine
being at the bakery counter and the baker comes to you and says, here is a fresh baked chocolate chip
cookie right out of the oven. If you would take that cookie, say Aye.
GROUP: Aye.
MARYANN MIGLIORELLI: If you would not, I understand the reticence. But for us, Access-on-Demand is
that fresh baked chocolate chip cookie. You can get it when you need it. You can use it effectively. There
are some limits, but they are not extreme.
The opposite, Access-a-Ride is that store bought cookie. It is still there, it is very valid, and it can be really
scrumptious. But it's not ever going to be the same as the cookie fresh out of the oven. That is one thing to
realize.

The other thing to realize is that right now, that Access-a-Ride cookie costs $4.50, or maybe $2.25 if you
are on the affordability budget program for Access-a-Ride and RTD. But right now, that fresh baked
chocolate chip cookie is being handed with no cost until you reach your $25 maximum. So why wouldn't
people want that cookie, to be perfectly honest?
But when we talk about Access-a-Ride, and I've heard so many people say it's not equitable, for one thing,
it's free. For another thing, the stops, the multi-stop option was there. For another thing, we can use it 24
hours a day and the service area is pretty large.
Equity, in this instance, is not to cut service hours to add cost. Though many of these things we could
certainly look at in collaboration. We've been having these comment sections. And while I am perfectly
happy to spend my time, effort, and energy to come down here to have a comment, and I know that you
will listen carefully to the things I say and to the same things that my colleagues say-JULIEN BOUQUET: Maryann, if you could wrap up your comments.
MARYANN MIGLIORELLI: Yes, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
MARYANN MIGLIORELLI: We are looking for collaboration. And we are looking to make sure that Accesson-Demand is the high bar and that Access-a-Ride rises to meet it, not reducing to lower a standard. Thank
you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Maryann. Our next speaker is Ian Miller.
IAN MILLER: Good afternoon, RTD Board. Thank you all so much for allowing me to speak with you today.
I want to speak to you all about a slightly separate subject than the previous batch. Although I do want to
say that cutting service and reducing our ridership at this time in any of our programs should not be an
acceptable measure of cost cutting, given that our ridership numbers for the last few years have been
stagnating, despite several institutions and several peer systems getting back to pre-COVID levels.
I want to talk to you very briefly today about the Front Range Passenger Rail and the importance of the
success of that project. We are currently facing severe budget cuts, both from the federal level and across
the board here in Colorado. We're looking at about anywhere from a $700 million to $2 billion deficit in the
next year.
That depends entirely on the federal side. However, we cannot allow these budgetary concerns to limit our
ability to impose and explore and expand our transit programs. If we allow these budget cuts to hinder our
ability to find creative solutions to continue to support these programs, we are going to see the end of transit
as we know it.
My family lives up in Scottsbluff, Nebraska, which, for those of you who don't know, is about a four-hour
drive from here, give or take. The Front Range Passenger Rail could cut that in half by taking me up to Fort
Collins, where I could rent a car thereafter to get the other half of the way up there. That ideal of rail
eventually reaching up to Cheyenne, these are human rights, the human right to travel without a car.
We are currently looking at a car industry that is paving over our city. An expansion of Pinion Boulevard,
for example, is a program we should be attacking and fighting rigorously to make sure that money comes

here to protect our programs of such significance and importance, both to our communities of the blind, to
our peer communities here in the city, our impoverished community, folks who can't afford to have a car.
This should be a city that is capable of walkability, capable of a planned infrastructure, capable of that
walkability. And I am concerned that I've seen several Board members fail to meet that fight, fail to reach
at this moment to engage on these levels, to fight creatively to find solutions. Instead, we're attacking our
blind community.
Instead, we're attacking ridership options. Instead, we're thinking about cuts that could affect ridership. We
have the resources to improve our ridership. Plans have been proposed to improve ridership.
But if the Front Range Passenger Rail project fails, if we are unable to fight in this moment to make sure
that these programs are successful, we could see an inability for us to get tax increases in the next few
years, because when we come to the voters, what are they going to say? They're going to say we failed
them at every single turn. It is extremely important that rather than cutting at programs that provide ridership,
we find creative solutions. Thank you all so much for your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Ian. Our next speaker is Nate Trela.
NATE TRELA: Hello my name is-- that is a little live. My name is Nate Trela from Englewood, Colorado.
Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity to speak to the Board today.
We've been closing in on almost a year and a half now that-- can't believe it's been that long, it's been that
long about Access-on-Demand and the improvements that can be made to make it both sustainable while
still retaining the utility of it. Through that time, I've been up here quite a few times to talk about the multistop trips that used to be possible when using Uber on the system.
For some of you, you've heard me talk about this for a year and a half. With half the Board being new, I
think it's worth revisiting this question, because it was a tool that made it possible to do so much more
efficiently, cost efficiently, time efficiently. When I go take my daughter to school and come back to go to
work, you're spending $20 for me to do something that could be done with $11 or $12 round trip.
Financially, it doesn't work out. The refrain repeatedly has been, it's a matter of equity, that you can't do
that with a wheelchair accessible vehicles, multi-stop trips. Maryann before made a very good point that-or I'm sorry, Erin before made a very good point that the question should be, maybe we should elevate the
standard of what the district can provide on the core Access-a-Ride service.
And it looks like you're taking steps to that with the change of the vehicle mix and the pilots that have been
hinted at. But this needs to be part of the discussion that we're having. I appreciate the fact that RTD is
taking the time and slowing down the process of evaluating what the best structure is going to be for Accesson-Demand.
And it should be a holistic look that includes all of paratransit. And it should be done again in partnership
and in better communication with your stakeholders or with your passengers. We've been talking at each
other for a lot of this time. And lately, we've been talking with each other more. And that's where we're
actually seeing progress. We're seeing engagement.
We can work together and find a way to, again, maintain the system's usefulness and make it more
sustainable financially. But there's more transparency that needs to be there into the data. I do feel circling

back to the multi-stop trip question as well, when the equity question, yes, you cannot hop on and hop off
a wheelchair accessible vehicle, but with the core fixed route service, you can if you buy a three-hour pass.
That seems like there's a question, if equity doesn't work when your-- or it seems to be a question about
what you could do with Access-on-Demand versus Access-a-Ride. Then maybe there should be a question
to you about what you do with fixed route versus Access versus any of the paratransit systems. It seems
like you should be raising the standard for everybody instead of cutting it back. But I again, appreciate the
improving dialogue and look forward to hearing how the system will be stronger and sustainable. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Nate. Our next speaker is Jason Bailey.
JASON BAILEY: Hello, thank you for having me. Appreciate it very much. I would like to talk about priorities
on how do we spend our money. I think we should have more door-to-door service. I would not want to take
a ride from anyone who needs a ride, more Access-on-Demand.
And we should spend less money on large cement structures costing billions of dollars that benefit
contractors and banks, and spend more money on the people. We should have more door-to-door service
and give less money to Chase Bank and all the other banks for interest on all your debts. Cut off the debt.
Cut off the banks.
You gave, what, 10% of all your expense last year to the banks? That's like throwing the money into a trash
can. You can't spend that on the people if you're giving it to the banks. I think we need more door-to-door
service and fewer enormous buses that are mostly empty, wasting hundreds of millions of dollars polluting
the environment and backing up tens of thousands of cars every single day.
More door-to-door service. Technology has changed transportation, as it always does. Anyone over 20
remembers just a few years back when there were thousands of taxicabs on the road. Of course, the
internet and the connectivity provided by the internet did away with most of the taxi cabs.
The internet and the connectivity provided by the internet has dramatically changed mass transit forever.
Uber and Lyft are a couple of the more obvious reasons as to why so many enormous RTD buses are
mostly empty. And there are so many other categories of internet connectivity that have changed mass
transit forever.
Another reason as to why so many enormous buses are mostly empty is Zoom, such as in this room, and
another 1,000 applications that make working together from home and other remote locations more possible
than ever before. Much of the bus traffic from home to work and back to home has gone away forever
because of the internet's connectivity. We could talk about Amazon and Walmart and online sales. We
could talk about DoorDash and all the other delivery services.
But what I'd like to talk about for my last minute here is your financial report. This 300-page document, if
you open a PDF or a Microsoft Word, and on your keyboard, hit Control-F, F means find. Hit Control-F, a
menu will pop up. And you type in a word and you hit Search.
You know what word is not in your financial report? Internet. You do not have the word "internet" in your
financial report. You talk about risk factors pertaining to RTD and your financial condition, but you do not
mention the word "internet," which has completely changed your entire organization. This financial report,
completely fraudulent.

I don't care how many auditors you talk about. I don't care about how much you think your financial report
is such high standards. It's completely fraudulent. The word "internet" is not in your financial report. I could
talk another hour about it, but my time is up. Thank you so much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, sir. Our next speaker is Cody Bair or Cody "Bar."
CODY BAIR: Awesome, thank you, everybody. I'm Cody Bair, a blind CPA and Access-a-Ride user, also
serve as the Treasurer of the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado. And I'm proud to stand here with
my friends from this organization that categorically opposes service cuts to RTD Transit services.
I will say I concur with what's been said by this group, but want to approach a couple of other topics that
we've yet to bring up with regards to Access-a-Ride. The first of those is the limitations around the 3/4 mile
rule and hours, as previously discussed. I do oppose that, but want to consider the worst case scenario that
we implement those. It would cause significant administrative headaches for RTD to enforce.
There has been suggested that geofencing is possible, but it has also been suggested that the hours rule
is not possible. I can imagine there's 15 of you guys on this Board right now, and imagine how many of you
guys know what hours the bus runs at every place that you're going to. I would suggest that very few do, if
any.
And imagine having that burden to prove being placed on the customer. I think, when we look at the multistop issue, it was a nightmare from an administrative perspective, people being suspended because they
were allowed to do it. And I would offer that likely RTD spent more cost in administrative time enforcing it
than if they would have just allowed multi-stops to continue.
Second of all, I want to hit on the arbitrary rule of the three-month wait period for Access-on-Demand users.
I myself work in a project-based job, and don't always have a set time of when I need to be at work or leave
work, so it makes it impossible to plan Access-a-Ride out two days or a day or even a week in advance.
I don't see how we can put a limitation like that, when for some people, Access-a-Ride just doesn't work as
is. And again, it's completely arbitrary. And how would we determine after three months as to whether
somebody is allowed to use the on-demand services or not? I hope the Board will consider these questions
that I posed in the upcoming month. And I appreciate your time tonight.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, sir. Our next speaker is Eileen Gallegos.
EILEEN GALLEGOS: Hello, I'm Eileen Gallegos. And thank you for having me speak today. I really want
to talk about dignity and confidence. I am a native of Colorado. I have three children and seven
grandchildren. And I am very grateful for RTD as a whole.
Before Access-a-Ride came around, I took the bus everywhere with my children. Sometimes I had to take
three buses to get them to daycare, so I would have to get up at like 3:00 or 4:00 in the morning to get my
children to school or to daycare, whichever it would be.
Anyway, long story short, I just want to get to how happy I was when Access-a-Ride came around and I
was able to get picked up door-to-door, and especially for job interviews, not being lost. There were times
that I went the wrong direction and ended up an hour late for interviews, and therefore, not getting the job.
And then we'll just keep going on. So when on-demand came about, and this is where more confidence
and my dignity was just flowing over because I could go to recreation, I could go to bowling, and I didn't

have to leave bowling if I wasn't ready to with demand and the on-demand program. So when my children
live outside of the service area, and I cannot tell you how heartbreaking it's going to be if I just can't come
to see them when I want to see them.
Also, the one-stop, the adding one-stop was very helpful in leaving from work to go pick up groceries and
not having to deal with Instacart, which sometimes you can get lettuce that shouldn't even be at a food
bank. And when you go to pick up your groceries, someone in the store gets those for you. And it's just
done with a lot more care. Anyway, thank you for considering my thoughts. And I hope that we can work
together to make this keep going.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Eileen. Our next speaker is Miller Hudson.
MILLER HUDSON: Good evening. I came this evening just to speak very briefly and encourage the
adoption of the CORA fee waiver motion that you have in front of you this evening. I have two things to say
about it. One is, it is an opportunity for RTD to set a good example, particularly at a time when we have a
legislature who seems to keep trying to limit access to information about the legislative process. And I don't
need to remind you that they continue to look for a path to undermine the democratic process here at RTD.
One of the things I've done in retirement is I write a weekly column for Colorado politics. And I've become
familiar with a lot of the press, which is no longer driven by our major newspapers or our major channels.
They don't have the resources any longer to have investigative staffs or long investigative processes. And
so often, the most important stories are broken by freelancers, someone like myself who might be very
curious about a particular issue.
But I can guarantee you this, the pay for one column doesn't cover more than maybe one or two hours of
investigation. So it would be a tremendous assistance to someone who works for a blog or who is writing
for an independent newsletter to have this kind of a provision. And so I think it's a good idea, I think it serves
the public interest, and I hope you'll give it serious consideration and endorse it tonight.
Any organization that is doing what it's supposed to do has nothing to fear from investigation or someone
looking at their records. And when you have an organization that isn't doing that, right now, the only way it
makes its way into the public notice is from a tip. And I'm willing to bet-- I'm not a betting person, but I would
bet money that the story about the mayor's office on Channel 4 CBS station using Signal to erase their
email trace, I'll bet you that was a tip that they got from someone who knew what was happening. So I
would hope that you would look at this as a good government move. And as I said, it's a good way to set
an example. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, sir. I will now turn to Mr. Kroll in regards to has anyone
raised their virtual hand?
JACK KROLL: Chair Bouquet, we have several present who have raised their hand. It looks like we've got
around 8 to 10, the first of whom is Tim Keenan.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Tim, you're recognized.
TIM KEENAN: Hi there. I'm Tim Keenan. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to address you. First and
foremost, I just wanted to-- this peer review was taken because ridership and Access-on-Demand was
exploding.

Staff was like, whoa, this is getting expensive. We need to take a look at this program. But now it seems
like we're plateauing. We got $15 million-- $15 million was the funding request for this year. That is 1.13%
of RTD's budget. So I would just ask you to consider whether this is, in fact, unsustainable going forward,
even if it creeps up to 1.5% or closer to 2%
This is a very well used program that has enabled people to build lives and livelihoods that would not have
been possible without it. It's a very efficient program. It's about $16 per trip versus buses, I understand are
$19 per passenger subsidy. And Access-a-Ride is way up there, at $60 to $80 per passenger. So I would
think that you would want to push more people toward Access-on-Demand, rather than any other options
if they're able to utilize it.
As far as I'm concerned, this past November, I started working at Amazon out in Green Valley Ranch. And
I live at 1st and Broadway here. And I'd been working overnight. So I would not be able to use Access-onDemand to get to work if these recommendations are adopted. It would take, it's about $30 a trip, so that
would take a huge bite out of my weekly paycheck.
And I go four times a week, so even with 40 rides, I would still have a little bit left over. But if somebody is
going to work full time and they're like me, and their schedules can change, because Amazon can flex me
up or down an hour at the end of my shift, so I can't use Access-a-Ride. For these people, they would have
nothing left if you do 40 rides a month. That's just unacceptable.
So let me just check my points here. I think I had one other thing. Actually, I've pretty much covered
everything. The fair seems fair, although I would submit that you might want to zero out the fare for people
who qualify for the LiVE program, because there are people that have really, really tight budgets. And even
$2.25, if they do it several times a month, is going to be a significant expense for them. And so overall, I
would just urge you to reconsider whether this is in fact is a sustainable program.
JULIEN BOUQUET: If you could wrap up your comments.
TIM KEENAN: Sure, it furthers RTD's mission across the board of bringing more people more places. So I
hope you consider that going forward. Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Tim. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have David Sabados.
JULIEN BOUQUET: David, you're recognized.
DAVID SABADOS: Good evening. I'm not sure if I can turn my camera on, but my name is Dave Sabados.
I wear a few different hats, but I'm here today as a resident of RTD District C and as a mostly former
journalist, and not on behalf of any organization. I'm asking for your support for the proposal to waive some
CORA fees for journalists.
Besides a few guys like Miller, journalists are pretty bad advocates for themselves because of the role they
play in society. So I want to speak as someone who'd been in their shoes in the past. When I was running
two community newspapers in Denver, deciding whether or not to file a CORA request was always a real
question.
Most government agencies responded professionally and with courtesy. A few attempted to claim
thousands of dollars in costs for almost any request. Other entities, not RTD, to be clear, that sometimes

tried to throw up financial roadblocks might have thought they could avoid a story. But in reality, those
games just make journalists figure there's something being hidden, even if there isn't. I think everyone
knows that media is struggling in this country, and even modest fees can be a barrier to local publications
doing their work.
Student journalists certainly can't afford additional costs. In many cases, CORA requests aren't looking for
bad information. They're looking for complete information so a journalist can do their research. Roadblocks
to CORA requests don't stop stories, but they can make them less accurate and cause unneeded
antagonism between communication staff and the media, which ultimately harms the agency when trying
to work with the media on positive, proactive stories as well.
The overall cost of this proposal to RTD is minuscule. But waving a few hundred dollars in fees means a
small outlet, like those I ran, might be able to hire an additional freelancer to write extra articles about RTD
or other government agencies. This proposal really does help local media, who in turn are trying to bring
quality, accurate information to the public.
It would also set an incredible example to other government agencies to follow, showing our state that RTD
is a leader in transparency as well as transportation. Thank you for your time. And I encourage you to vote
Yes on this meaningful proposal. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, David. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Ian Santopietro.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ian, you recognized. Ian, if you are attempting to speak at this time, we cannot hear
any of your audio. It might be good to go to our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Mr. Santopietro, we are going to move on to our next speaker, and we'll circle back to
you down the line here once you've maybe had a chance to your audio issues. Next up, we have Chaz
Davis.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Chaz, you are recognized.
CHAZ DAVIS: All right, good evening, everyone. I am Chaz Davis. I'm a father of two, I am blind, and I do
have multiple disabilities as well. Like many of the citizens here today, I have come up and spoken quite a
few times on Access-on-Demand. So a few years ago, RTD came together and created a service that really
allowed for so many of us with disabilities to be more free and more able to move about our community, to
engage in our community, to go to work, to be able to have our kids in daycare so that we can go to work.
It has opened our lives to places that we previously hadn't been able to do, or hadn't been able to do reliably.
And so we saw a huge increase in ridership, at least using that AOD. And that's because it's reliable. It's
something that works. It's something that we can use and it's consistently there for us.
I firmly believe that we should be buoying the expectations of people with disabilities, rather than making
going to work or keeping our kids in daycare cost prohibitive. So I just look at Access-on-Demand as
something that we really need to maintain.
And even if it causes us to look at the budget and say, OK, well, this is increasing because this is something
that is working for so many people, then maybe that's a consideration we have to look at, and we have to

be more creative in our cost saving measures. And obviously, we can say, let's cut the rides in half. That's
going to save money overall.
But maybe we can look at it in a more creative way, and we can all come to the table and have a solution
that's viable for everyone, because I've spoken to many people, people on the Board, staff members, this
is not a service that we want to get rid of. This is something we want to maintain. But we know it needs to
be sustainable. All right, thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Chaz. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: OK, we've received notice from those online that they're having a hard time hearing us, so
we're going to need to, if it's OK with you, pause and restart the Zoom. And that way we can ensure those
participating remotely are able to fully hear what's going on.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent.
JACK KROLL: OK, we believe our audio issues may have been addressed here. We are going to now
move on to the next speaker in the queue, which is James Triplet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: James, you're recognized.
AUTOMATED VOICE: All the audio now unmuted Zoom webinar.
JAMES TRIPLETT: OK, can you all hear me?
AUTOMATED VOICE: Looks like you're done talking, so we'll lower your hand.
JAMES TRIPLETT: No, no, I'm not done. I'm not done. Whoever's speaking, it's very scratchy.
AUTOMATED VOICE: Hand now lowered.
JAMES TRIPLETT: No, don't.
AUTOMATED VOICE: James, you are now [INAUDIBLE]. Looks like you're done talking, so we'll lower you
hand in 8 seconds.
JAMES TRIPLETT: No, can you all hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: James, you may proceed.
AUTOMATED VOICE: Hands now lowered.
JAMES TRIPLETT: Your voice is very scratchy. I can barely understand you. Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, James.
JAMES TRIPLETT: OK, I'm Joe Triplett. I'm a citizen of Englewood, Colorado. I do agree on what
everybody's talking about Access-on-Demand. But we must remember it was originally given to the Accessa-Ride as something to assist so those who can ride Access-on-Demand can leave Access-a-Ride and ride
it.

I know there's been quite a bit of criticism about Access-a-Ride, but I can't use Access-on-Demand for
many reasons. I am totally blind. I've had several jobs here in Denver in the past. I'm 77 years young. And
I've been able to get to and from work with very little problem. Yes, in life, we gotta always plan things we
do, including transportation.
I would like to make three recommendations. Number one, I'd like to see the Access-on-Demand budget
taken away from the Access-a-Ride. The reason for that is if they have their own budget, then that way,
improvements could be made on Access-a-Ride. Right now, we haven't had one improvement on Accessa-Ride for over 21 years concerning the passengers.
Number two, I would like to see them-- in other words, I'd like to see them don't let them qualify for Accessa-Ride, but they could qualify for direct access on-demand only. That would improve service on Access-aRide, including making it more efficient. Less people who cannot ride Access-a-Ride because, on Accessa-Ride, we have multiple disabilities as well as blindness. That would help.
And I would like to see the Board do the same consideration and spend as much time working with all of
us who are on Access-a-Ride who want to see this service improved. I do thank the Board for all their hard
work. I know this is not an easy job. I know its decisions are not made just making them. I know that there's
a lot of thought and a lot of time put into it.
But after this is over with Access-on-Demand, please, let some of us who are Access-a-Ride users basically
only, let's get together and let's make improvements for people who have to ride Access-a-Ride because
their disability or other reasons, they just cannot write Access-on-Demand. Again, Access-on-Demand is a
great service.
It's just like being cited, as far as transportation, you can get a car anytime, day or night, 24 hours a day,
seven days a week, 365 days a year, where Access-a-Ride, you can't. I mean, I appreciate and I'm so glad
we have Access-a-Ride, so let's work out ways to improve it, like dropping the time between the times we
stop. Like, if I go to the bank just for five minutes, I have to wait an hour. Let's consider dropping that to 30
minutes or a little bit less.
I know there are improvements, so I'd like to ask the Board to please, let's spend some time together. I'm
more than willing to volunteer and work on any committee that the Board has concerning Access-a-Ride.
So let's get the Access-a-Ride users together, and let's make some improvements.
I really appreciate your time. Thank you so much for allowing me to speak tonight. May everybody have a
very blessed and great week. Thank you very much.
[AUDIO OUT]

DEREK SELBO: Hi. Good evening. Hi, my name is Derek Selbo. I live in Downtown Denver. Firstly, a thank
you to Denver Regional Transport, as well as all of the Board of Directors who spend a lot of their time
working on these issues.
I have one issue here that I really feel needs to be addressed. Let me first tell you where I'm coming from.
I founded a business many years ago. And I started it with near no money. And it was a seminar in training
business. And I grew it into a somewhat successful business over many years.

It grew and grew and grew. And the reason it grew is because I understood what was going on for my
customers. I understood what my customers were getting or not getting, depending on the instructors
abilities when they were doing a course. So I sat through a million different courses, classes, to understand
what was going on. And I grew the business simply because I understood all the problems.
Where am I going with this? I feel that probably all of the Board members, but maybe one or two or three,
don't have any conception of what it's like to be blind, nor do they have any conception of what it is like to
be dealing with these transfer issues that everybody has addressed so far. In order to really understand,
you have to do what I did by sitting in on the classes and determining what exactly was going on so I could
make valid decisions related to each instructor.
What you need to do, if I may suggest, would be to use both services for a week. One week, Access-onDemand, and one week the regular access to do everything, from going to work to going shopping, et
cetera, et cetera. At the end of the week, you'll be able to understand far better what we're dealing with,
because right now, you're sitting on your seats and looking at us and going, oh, poor people. No, we're not
poor people. We're people with disabilities.
I only went blind about eight years ago. And I've done a lot in my life. And I continue to want to do things in
my life. But you guys, if you pull this away from us, are really taking away from my and many other people's
ability to do things effectively.
So I would ask you, please have the courage, and I'll even say the guts, to live like a blind person in terms
of, put a blindfold on, and for a week, go with your families, go to the supermarket, and see what it's like.
Get on one of the Access bus rides and be dropped off at a curb, and try to find your way to the front door
where you need to be. Only then are you able to understand enough to make valid decisions.
And my final point is I have a question. And it's a theoretical question. But I will pose it. I feel that the Access
system is being protected to the detriment of its customers, being us, us people that use it. What I mean, I
think that-[AUDIO OUT]

VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chair, yeah, we can't hear you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Our next speaker in the queue is who, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Anahit LaBarre.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Anahit, you're recognized. Apologies for mispronunciation.
ANAHIT LABARRE: No, you did not. It's all good. Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity to speak. And I
wanted to share a couple of things. Number one, I would like to thank the Board of Directors for
consideration of this issue. I wanted to share that we have had multiple opportunities to share our thoughts
and share our feedback, share our personal experiences, which has been incredible.
I am curious to see how this information is processed and presented by the Board, because the sessions
that we have had was mainly us sharing our personal feedback, and not a lot of concrete data has been
shared as to what the numbers are, what exactly the participation is, and how it all can relate.

We are here to assist and to support the cause, and to see how we can be of assistance in improving the
Access-on-Demand services. I am a teacher. I am blind myself. I am a deaf-blind individual. I am a teacher
of students who are blind and low vision.
And my job has a little bit of a different nature. I go to different schools each day. I start at different schools
each day, and that can change the morning of my job. So having Access-a-Ride is not necessarily a feasible
option for me.
I think there is an elephant in the room, and we're not necessarily speaking about this in that services has
been drastically reduced since COVID. And very few of them are either restored to their original frequency
or route.
I live in Centennial. The bus, the only bus that only goes east and west that we have, has been reduced.
The route has been reduced, and so has the frequency, neither of which have been restored. It is impossible
for me to get to work in a reliable way using public transportation.
I would love for you to note, for all of you to note that as blind, deaf-blind individuals with multiple disabilities,
we want to participate in our country's economy. We want to participate in local economy. We want to be
working, paying taxes. And so I would really encourage RTD to look at this holistically and from creative
point of view.
RTD can very well become a national leader in solving and coming up with a solution that can be viable if
we find a way to raise revenue. I know I have been personally on multiple committees with RTD throughout
the years, just because I am very passionate about transportation. And so there are so many things that
we can address. How do we improve services so we increase ridership, so we increase revenue. There is
a lot. And I feel like we're addressing the one issue.
JULIEN BOUQUET: If you could wrap up your comments.
ANAHIT LABARRE: Yep, you bet. The one issue that is easy to cut, the one issue that is easy to diminish.
So anyway, I would really encourage everybody to have a creative, holistic approach to this. And thank you
for your attention.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Jeff Roberts.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Jeff, you are recognized.
JEFF ROBERTS: Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Jeff Roberts. I'm Executive Director
of the Colorado Freedom of Information Coalition, a nonpartisan group that promotes government
transparency and helps journalists and the public understand and use Colorado's open government laws.
CFYC's advocacy committee has not taken a position on the proposed CORA and CCJRA fee waiver
resolution.
But generally, I want to thank the Board for one, not raising its CORA fee rate to the statutory allowed
maximum, like about 1,500 other government entities in Colorado have done, and two, recognizing that
high fees can be and often are an obstacle to obtaining important information about how government
operates and how public servants conduct themselves in their official capacities.

In 2020, a CFYC report concluded that CORA's fee provision can be used to make public records so cost
prohibitive they effectively are off limits to the public. It got worse last July, when the maximum research
and retrieval rate jumped 23% because of an inflation factor built into the law.
Even the state's largest media organizations don't have a lot of money to set aside for open records
requests these days, but the smaller ones are especially vulnerable. As the Aurora Sentinel put it in an
editorial earlier this month, "Exorbitant fees for public records put revealing government actions and
meetings outside the realm of affordability, at great cost to public accountability."
CFYC encourages you to interpret the pilot policy as broadly as possible to include bloggers and others
who seek records in an effort to make sure the public is informed, and to grant fee waivers as often as
possible to others who request records for a public purpose. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Jeff. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Next is Andrea Brandies.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Andrea, you're recognized.
ANDREA BRANDIES: Yes, my name is Andrea Brandies. And I moved from Maryland to Colorado in
August 2020, retiring from government service. And for me, as a retiree, instead of sitting home passively
as a blind person, a blind retiree doing nothing, Access-on-Demand has enabled me to contribute in many
ways to activities in my community, such as volunteer activities at my church, participating in Broomfield
City Council meetings, participating in the local community center, and also just helping out with needs in
my own house, getting groceries, going to doctor's appointments instead of always thinking, oh, I have to
ask someone to drive me because, for example, in Broomfield, there is some bus service if I could get to it.
But if I was able to get to a bus, which is not really possible, it would take me two hours to get to Nativity
Catholic Church, which is five minutes from my house. So Access-on-Demand has made it possible for me
to live a full life as a contributing retiree. And I would like to use Access-on-Demand in order to participate
in meetings, perhaps in Denver, to help to think of creative ways so that the program could be sustained,
because I realize after working in the Senate and in government that everyone has a budget.
So this program is so important to so many people. There must be ways that it can be sustained. And if
anyone has any doubt about this, all you have to do is put your car in the garage for one week, don't use
it, and then you can get an experience of what we as blind people have to deal with in terms of
transportation. Thank you so much for allowing me to speak.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Andrea. Next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes, we are now returning to Mr. Ian Santopietro.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ian, can you hear us?
IAN SANTOPIETRO: Yes, I can hear you. Can you hear me this time?
JULIEN BOUQUET: We can. You are recognized, sir.
IAN SANTOPIETRO: Excellent, thank you. My name is Ian Santopietro. I live in District C and recently
started taking the E line to work for three to four days per week. And I'd like to express my appreciation for

the new simplified fare structure and the lower fares since I was last a regular rider of RTD. It saves me a
lot of money on my commute compared to driving. The $88 monthly pass particularly, bears a large
responsibility for my attraction to and usage of RTD services. And I'd like to thank the Board personally for
working to implement those structures. I'm a little bit late for perhaps for a little while, but yeah.
I'd also like to encourage the Board to explore any additional means of increasing public transit affordability
without reducing service, because it really does benefit all citizens of the entire Metro area, abled, disabled,
everything. And thank you again for all of your work and for the time to speak. Thank you so much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Ian. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: At this time, Chair Bouquet, we have no further speakers in the queue.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, I'd recognize anyone in the Board room who would like to speak. If you would like
to do so, please approach the podium at this time. Seeing none, I will close this section for public comment.
Excuse me, were any email comments received, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Bouquet, there were five emails to which you all received in regards to public
comment for tonight's meeting. Mr. Sam Spear sent an anecdote on decreased ridership related to E Line.
Kevin Bruton sent a comment related to training failures, specifically with respect to service animals.
Mr. Cody Baits provided an email titled "RTD updates," in which he expressed some general disgruntlement
with the Board. GDT sent letter this afternoon regarding service planning standards and service
performance reporting, the National Women's Soccer League Expansion Team, and the CORA CCJRA
resolution you all are considering this evening. And finally, Landon Hilliard sent a letter of commendation.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent, thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. So now, at this time, I will close public
participation. Tonight, we will have three external entity reports. The first will be from our Advisory
Committee for People with Disabilities. Earl Lee is here to provide an update. Mr. Lee, the floor is yours.
EARL LEE: Thank you very much. On March 11, we held a joint meeting with the APAC committee. During
the portion with the ACPD, the ACPD is actually working on some planning groups. We have several
different plans that we are working on.
We heard from three of them. One of those planning groups is working on a resolution to work to change
the name of Civic Center Station, in honor of Reverend Wade Blank. We heard from Joe Beaver and Jamie
Lewis, who seem to be very close to submitting a formal application to the Board to make that very change.
During that meeting, we took a informal show of hands, if you will, of everyone in the two groups. And we
got an overwhelming show of hands in favor of that change.
The second group that we talked to was led by Curtis Chong, who talked a lot about the accessibility of
electronic documents, especially with regards to RTD's compliance. He is very close to that particular
subject and has been monitoring and he is very, very involved in wanting to bring RTD up to full compliance
to online accessibility with their online documents.
He has mentioned it several times. He is a blind person who has a great deal of experience and has offered
to help quite a bit and to help RTD convert those documents. And Gabe Christie has committed to meet
with him to help move that project forward.

The other planning group that we discussed is one that includes Greg Martinez, Gabe Christie, and myself.
And we are looking at a procedure for a more timely method of communications, both internally to RTD and
externally to the public, to identify the barriers that impact people, especially those with disabilities.
And part of that is we have drafted a new form that we think it's going to simplify the reporting process. It's
a little more detailed in some areas, a little simpler in other areas. And we think it can replace multiple
confusing forms that currently reside in the website. We hope to have a working copy that we can actually
present to the Board later in the year. And hopefully we can get some resolution that will help them.
That's pretty much the report on the meeting. I have a couple of what I feel are positive notes that I would
like to end on. One, I would like to commend Gabe Christie. I assume that you're aware that he is working
on an outreach program that he is calling Gabbing with Gabe and Gisa. Tomorrow, he is holding one of his
Gabbing with Gabe and Gisa meetings at The Center for People with Disabilities in Boulder, where he and
Gisa are meeting with people in the community. These are people with disabilities in the community.
I think it's an interesting program. He was only able to get one in last year. I hope to join him tomorrow in
Boulder. So I think that will be a very interesting program. And I think that public outreach is really very
important.
The other thing is we all too often hear on the news, RTD's name is usually not reported in a very positive
manner. This morning on 9 News 6:00 AM, they brought a very positive-- what I feel is a very positive piece,
where they reported that year over year, in February, that the reported crimes at RTD bus stations and rail
and bus stops and rail stations were down nearly 50% of reported crimes year over year.
So I think that's a very positive thing. And so I would like to commend Chief Martin-- oh, I'm sorry, Acting
Chief Martin Barto and the Board for their support in expanding the RTD police force. I think that's all that I
have for this evening. And I yield the floor.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Lee, for your report. Are there any questions or comments
from Directors at this time for Mr. Lee? Well, excellent. Well, thank you so much for your report, sir. Yes, it
was a good sign for us to get some good news this morning.
And also been seeing a lot of social media praise for Gabbing with Gabe, so I'm glad to see that out there.
Thank you for your report, sir. All right, next we'll hear from Julie Jennings. And that's going to be an update
regarding the activities of the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory committee. Miss Jennings, the floor is
yours.
JULIE JENNINGS: Good evening. This is a brief summary of the March 11 APAC meeting. After roll call,
there were no public comments. Updates on Queue Ride web portal, the final testing was being conducted
and expected to be ready for APAC volunteers to test in the next couple of weeks. APAC observation of
reservations and dispatch feedback. In response to APAC's September 23, 2023 feedback on
improvements, APAC members observed and provided feedback on Access-a-Ride reservations and
dispatch.
Multiple APAC members engaged. And overall, the feedback was good. APAC volunteers then provided
their personal feedback on customer service, reservations, and dispatch. The group discussed their
concerns and suggestions. We had a discussion of the peer review and proposed revised RTD
recommendations. Paul Hamilton, the RTD Senior Manager of Paratransit Services, provided a summary
of the revised proposed RTD recommendations.

The RTD Board Operations and Safety Committee will review these recommendations at their next meeting.
Access-on-Demand recommendations, these include fare subsidy, trip cap, service area, service hours,
enrollment, suspension, and waive vehicle incentivism. Information on potential savings was given. Accessa-Ride recommendations, these include extending recertification, modifying on-time performance metrics
to measure both pickup and drop off, and developing a fleet procurement plan with modified fleet mix.
Next steps, in March, they will present a draft of proposed recommendations to the RTD Board committee.
April-- They will request RTD Board approval and May through August implement approved changes. There
were several suggestions in a discussion providing actual accessible PowerPoint slides to public
participants.
Also, a suggestion to not change the current ADA service area, since some have no other transit option
available, and reduction could lead to loss of jobs or access to healthcare. Questions were asked about
incentivizing the ride share taxis, providing Access-on-Demand service to use their own waves, and what
happens after reaching the monthly ride cap and Access-on-Demand vendors ability to know what is in and
out of the service area. And that concludes the APAC portion of the joint meeting with ACPD.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Miss Jennings, for your report. Any comments or questions
from directors? All right, well, excellent.
Thank you, Miss Jennings, for the report. And thank you for your time. Finally, last but not least, we'll be
hearing from our new CAC Co-Chair Eric Smith to give us an update on the work that the Citizen Advisory
Committee has been doing. Mr. Smith, the floor is yours.
ERIC SMITH: Good evening. My name is Eric Smith, pronouns he, him, and his. And I am the newly elected
Co-Chair of the CAC. So thank you guys for having me.
I'm here to let you know about all the hard work that we have lately been working on, since the last time the
Board has been updated. First, we have elected a new co-chair again, me. We've also onboarded new
members for 2025, at least 8 out of 17. And let's see-Can you hear me now? We've provided input on Title VI program updates and the May 2025 proposed
service changes, and submitted comments through online portals. We have reviewed and have the
following input on SB-161, the transit reform bill. We just wanted to let everyone know that, first, there's a
discrepancy between the projected transit usage in the year 2035 and lack of increased transit funding.
We also noted that many in the legislature would not be likely-- well, they'd probably be pretty unhappy with
the service cuts in the suburban areas or areas with less housing and job density to drive ridership in denser
areas. Suggested revisions to the dashboard, right now we're looking at RTD's capital costs. We want that
to be included in the dashboard. And then we are supportive of simplifying the EcoPass purchases, also,
realistically, a total redesign of all of RTD's apps, and maybe possibly get them centrally located into one
app.
Right now, we have reviewed HB 25-129 transit worker assault funding and training. And we have the
following input. There are several members who are unsure whether increasing offenders' penalties will
effectively reduce harm against system operators. Not sure if that is deterrent enough. Consistently, we
think that fare collection, not just on the A line, but on all rail lines and the commuter rail as well, could
possibly act as a deterrent.

And then we received a presentation on the proposed paratransit program modifications. And we have the
following feedback. The agency could improve how users' needs are identified in order to tailor services
more effectively, possibly using volunteer user surveys or other data collection tools like QR codes.
We also believe in exploring integrating FlexRide with Access-on-Demand and Access-a-Ride to provide
more flexibility for riders, as well as showing the costs. We've been noted that services being tied to
proximity of fixed route bus services will likely limit access.
I know there's a lot of BRT projects going on in the city. And we're pretty excited about some of them. And
we have a broader input on the transit infrastructure, which is to say, RTD, we understand is not the lead
agency on some of these projects. We know RTD, as a stakeholder, should advocate for an incremental
build process.
A good example would be installation of transit priority signals at key intersections, like Lincoln and 11th
Avenue, to improve transit service prior to completion of the planned BRT corridors. We've heard some
great updates. And we got to know some from Directors Nicholson and Chandler at our February meeting.
And so we included some of that in our February CAC Work Plan meeting.
Right now, the draft includes input on route performance and cost policies to provide timely input to the
work of operations, security, and the Security committee to inform near-term service changes and longterm service planning, and how. Review transit signal technologies and strategies to improve system
efficiency.
Also, we want a little bit more involvement with Director Nicholson's welcoming Transit Working Group, a
little bit more collaboration there. And the CAC destination, specifically engagements, meaning that we
would like to possibly take field trips with a focus, which are to be determined, but could include visiting
parts of the district or parts of RTD's Security Office, or just here at the headquarters.
Finally, we have updated our membership bios on the CAC website. And I encourage all of you to review
them. We do have an engaged, committed, and knowledgeable group of members, including myself. And
you guys are more than welcome to join us at our next meeting, which is scheduled every second Tuesday
of the month. So for April, it will be Thursday, April 10 at 3:30 PM. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Eric. Do we have any questions or comments for Eric Smith?
KAREN BENKER: Should I go?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: I have two questions actually for the three entities that gave a report. One, do we have
an RTD staff person that works with these citizen volunteers? And then two, can we get a written report
from the three groups so that we have something on paper? Because you've given us a lot of good
suggestions, and it'd be nice to be able to have them on a piece of paper so that we can look at them and
have discussions about them. Thank you.
ERIC SMITH: So we do work with Mr. Kroll here. He's usually attending all of our meetings, so he does
help us craft our agenda. At the end of the meetings, we do have a report basically outlined for everything
that we've just gone over. And so we can have that submitted to the Board.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for the question, Director Benker. Miss Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Chair Bouquet. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. And if I can address
Director Benker's question for the other two entities relevant to the advisory committees for people with
disabilities and the paratransit committee, there are staff liaisons appropriate to that as well, one out of the
Offices of Civil Rights, specifically the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 Office, and then, the support
personnel relative to folks that are using the paratransit entity, that would be out of our Paratransit offices.
And the Senior Manager of that office supports as well.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And also, thank you, co-Chair Smith. Congratulations on the
new position. And it's lovely to see. I think this is the first time, at least my time serving on the Board, for a
member of the CAC to be in person. So we greatly appreciate you making the journey down here. Thank
you. All right, that will close up our external entities reports. We're going to move now to the Audit Committee
report. Committee Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Audit Committee met on March 13, 2025 at 2:00 PM and
discussed two recommended actions, one to adopt the internal audit charter, one to adopt the proposed
2025-2026 internal audit plan. Both of those matters passed out of committee with unanimous support and
appear on tonight's agenda under Unanimous Consent items B and C.
Our next meeting will be in May of 2025, where we will hopefully be discussing the annual comprehensive
financial report. That concludes my report. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Buzek. Committee Chair Guzman, would you
like to share regarding the Finance and Planning Committee report?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Guzman, District C. Finance and Planning met on
March 11, 2025. We did not have any recommended action at that meeting. We did, however, have several
discussion items. They included finishing the FasTracks report, 2025 Fiscal Policy, 2024 Actuals to Budget
Review, and identifying comparable agencies for cost efficiency comparison. The next meeting of the
Finance and Planning Committee will be Tuesday, April 8 at 5:30 PM.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your report. Co-Committee Chair Ruscha or Co-Committee Chair
Harwick, do you have anything to report from Operation Safety and Security?
IAN HARWICK: I do. The Operations, Safety, and Security met on March 12 at 5:30. And the committee
discussed several important items, some of which will be voted on tonight. Going through unanimous
consent will be the Service Standards and Performance reporting, which was brought by Director Paglieri,
myself, and Director Ruscha.
Up for recommended actions will be Title VI Service Equity Analysis and the May 2025 service changes.
We also had a robust discussion about paratransit program modifications. And we bid our esteemed Fred
Worthen a happy movement to the Southern state of Florida. And our next meeting will be Wednesday,
April 9, 2025 at 5:30 PM.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much Co-Committee Chair. Moving on, we are going to go to
Performance Committee. Committee Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Guzman, District C. Performance Committee met
March 3, 2025. We had the 2025 Performance Committee Work Plan, which is in tonight's information for
this Board meeting, and key Organizational Performance Metrics meeting. It was the first of these types of

meetings that we have held. It was a lot of information. And we have certainly taken the feedback that we
need more time to focus on that.
We had two distinct parts to this meeting. After that, we adjourned into an executive session for the first
quarterly check-in with our General Manager-CEO, as agreed to in the current GM/CEO contract
amendment. We will not be doing those meetings at the same time going forward.
We're going to separate those out for everybody. That way, we can really do the deep dive and focus on
that, and we can commit our time with the General Manager and CEO to the discussion that needs to
happen, and use the length of that time. That meeting happens during the morning. And we did increase
our time allotment to try and give ourselves a buffer. But it was not nearly enough time to engage properly.
And so the feedback was, let's separate those out. There's one more calendar date that we'll have to look
at in the future. I'll work with General Manager CEO Johnson, and with my Vice Chair to ensure that we get
those separated out in a timely manner and inform the Board and the committee members of those changes
for the work plan that was submitted to this Board. Our next meeting will be April 7, 2025 at 8:30 AM. And
we look forward to seeing you there.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. All right, moving on, we're going to do the approval of Board
meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board and committee minutes were included in the Board
packet. Director Guzman has already provided the Board Office with a few corrections.
Are there any additional corrections from the Board for the minutes to be approved this evening? OK, unless
there is objection to considering the minutes, all at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve
the minutes for the following meetings?
February 25 Board meeting, March 3 Performance Committee, March 6 Executive Committee, March 11
Finance and Planning Committee, March 12 Special Board Meeting, March 12 Operation, Safety, and
Security Committee, March 13 Audit Committee, March 20 Executive Committee. All of these happen in
the year of 2025.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman is the mover. Do I have a second? Ruscha is the second. Is there any
discussion on this motion? OK, I will now call the vote for this motion. Are there any no votes on this action?
OK, seeing none, it will pass 15 ayes to zero noes. We are actually going to take a 10-minute break for our
CART representatives, for them to get caught up. And we'll be back at 7:25.
All right, excellent. So we are moving forward. I will now offer my Chair's report for this month. All right,
excellent. So good evening, everyone. I want to start off my report with a congratulations to Angel Pea for
being selected to be our new Deputy Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Pea will bring a great amount of expertise
and experience to this new position.
Mr. Pea brings over 25 years of experience in the private and public sector. It was great to hear that his
name was one of the top 40 under 40 by Mass Transit Magazine. This position is new to the agency, and I
believe it was a critical position for us to fill. I want to thank Ms. Johnson for her work in this search and
selecting Mr. Pea. I know Mr. Pea will be an excellent leader here at RTD. Welcome to the agency, sir.
[APPLAUSE]

The next part of my Chair report, I'd like to highlight the creation of two new working groups, one led by
Director Benker and Director Chandler to do a thorough review of the Board operating guidelines and the
Board bylaws. The hope will be that these two directors will have recommendations for their Executive
Committee in 2026, and that is to make sure that our guidelines and bylaws are in the most efficient position
as possible.
I'd also like to mention the working group on improving a welcoming transit environment. I'd like to thank
Director Nicholson and Director Paglieri for being part of this working group to observe, study, and bring
back recommendations for the full Board in regards to enhancing a more welcoming transit environment
along with our RTD stations and vehicles.
We look forward to the work that the two of you will be bringing forward to the rest of this Board. And I'd
also like to thank the Citizen Advisory Committee for working closely with these directors on these
endeavors. Finally, Directors, I'd like to thank you all for the work you have done for documenting your
stakeholder engagements. All of you as directors have met with mayors, council members, county
commissioners, business leaders, nonprofit organizations, or your local communities to engage and create
the necessary communication channels between the public and RTD.
The success of this organization and the success of this elected Board falls onto the 15 of us to continue
to be out in the public. We must continue to build new relationships and strengthen those already existing.
Thank you to all for your continued presence and documentation for these stakeholder engagements. With
that, I'll turn it over to General Manager and CEO Ms. Johnson for your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Once again, good evening to you, all Board members
and the public that are assembled here in the Board room and virtually. I am Debra Johnson, RTD's General
Manager and CEO. Before I delve into my report, you've heard from the Chair, everybody that's gathered,
that we have Angel Pea here.
So it's my pleasure to introduce Angel, who is taking part in his first RTD Board meeting as the agency's
inaugural Deputy Chief Executive Officer. In his role, Mr. Pea will advance the agency's vision for a
customer-focused transit system with a heightened awareness on asset renewals and state of good repair.
He has auspices over several departments and divisions, including Capital Programs, Safety and
Environmental Compliance, Civil Rights, Contracting and Procurement, as well as Planning.
As you heard in the Chair's report, Angel has nearly 25 years of experience. And I do want to qualify, he
was 40 under 40 back in 2017, not to age him or anything, but just wanted to provide some qualifiers there.
And additionally, he has experience across many facets of the transit industry, previously working for what
we call DDOT, if you're familiar with Washington, DC or a native Washingtonian, also with WMATA, the
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, as well as the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority
in Boston, known as the T, before moving into the private sector.
I'm excited that Angel made the decision to join the agency and look forward to working closely with him in
the coming months, and into the future as well. And so, Angel, I see you standing close to the lectern. So
please join us. And I yield the floor to you, sir.
ANGEL PENA: Good evening, Chair Bouquet, members of the Board, GM/CEO Debra Johnson, and to
everyone who is joining us here in person and online. It is true, a true honor to be here today as RTD's first

Deputy Chief Executive Officer. And I want to thank GM/CEO Debra Johnson for her bold leadership and
vision.
Her national experience and deep understanding of transit have helped shape a stronger organization, one
that is built for today's needs, to meet those needs, and to prepare us for the future. I am proud to be part
of this structure now and to help carry that vision moving forward.
So I am not from Denver. I have spent my career working to make legacy transit systems more reliable,
safer, and more responsive to the communities that they serve. I look forward to supporting RTD strategic
priorities by collaborating with all of you and with our teams to bring our system to the state of good repair,
enhance safety, and improve the quality of service for the communities that we're serving.
I deeply respect the insight this Board brings as representatives of each of your communities. And I am
grateful for the opportunity to serve the agency and the communities within its 2,345-square-mile service.
I'm proud now to call Denver home. And I look forward to growing roots here and working together to shape
a stronger future for RTD. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Angel. So this evening, I will share with you just a few highlights and
activities that align with our strategic endeavors since the most recently held Board meeting on Tuesday,
February 25. So I'll first start out with community value.
So on Wednesday, March 19, I had the opportunity to attend a meeting of the House Transportation,
Housing, and Local Government Committee and gave testimony in support of House Bill 25-1290, which
would establish in state law a specific criminal offense related to assaults of transit workers. I believe many
of you know that this is something that is very near and dear to me, having been in this space for a while
and have seen firsthand impacts from those that are assaulted, and in previous agencies, actually lost
employees at the hands of gun violence that was directly impacting a front line operator when I was at LA
Metro.
So the support for this bill clearly aligns with RTD's strategic priority of employee ownership, as providing
an optimal work environment for frontline transit workers and other agency employees is critical in achieving
overall agency success. And so I want to thank Second Vice Chair Troy Whitmore for attending, as well as
members of RTD workforce, from managers to union stewards, as well as the presence of ATU 10-001 and
light rail operators that provided their lived experience before that committee last week.
So bridging both strategic priorities and community value and customer excellence, at this juncture, I'm
going to provide a status update on the phases two through four of the Downtown Rail Reconstruction
project. So I have a brief presentation to ground all assembled in our path forward.
So if we could go to the next slide, please. Oh, my bad. It's in my hand.
[LAUGHTER]

That was funny. OK, so thank you for indulging me. Really briefly, the outline I have is focused on state of
good repair, you heard Mr. Pea reference that, and you've heard me talk about that a lot as of late, because
that's where our laser like focus is, ensuring that we can have a transit network in a state of good repair for
the next 30 years. I'll give an overview of the project, the four phases service impacts, and next steps.

So before I launch into the details of the rail project itself, it's important to highlight how this project has
come to be. And so as we talk about state of good repair, like many agencies, RTD is an asset intensive
organization. Maintaining assets in a state of good repair is a critical effort for several reasons. Doing so
guarantees previous investments in the system remain intact, supports operationally safe, accessible, and
dependable transit services, preserves investment in a reliable transit infrastructure, and as you all know,
the Federal Transit Administration, or FTA, as we commonly say, requires transit agencies within its purview
to maintain a transit asset management plan, what we refer to as the TAM. RTD TAMs plan continues to
be evaluated and adjusted and prioritized to address the agency needs to maintain assets in a state of
good repair.
Adherence to TAM plan informs intentional development of the agency's annual budget. And just as we
know, I sent some correspondence to you all just last week because there's been a lot of questions and
talk about where RTD is relative to monies that we have in unrestricted reserves. Those monies are
intentionally to ensure that we can maintain our assets in a state of god repair when we look at rehabilitating
the system, renewing assets, and procuring other assets, such as rolling stock.
So as we talk about agency assets in and of themselves, pursuant to FTA guidelines, we must maintain an
inventory of assets and their physical condition. So assets inventory pursuant to an agency TAM plan can
range in cost from thousands to millions of dollars, and can include items such as revenue vehicles, as I
indicated previously, equipment, and other infrastructure components. Agencies must employ a analytic
processes or tools to assist in capital asset management, prioritization, and a list of prioritized investments.
The rail segments in Downtown Denver that will undergo reconstruction are such a prioritized asset. So let
me segue into that. So most of you and some returning members have heard me talk about this before, but
just to ground everybody in the same information, on Friday, October 7, in 1994, RTD held a ribbon cutting
ceremony to inaugurate the first light rail line in the region. Following commencement celebrations, the line
was placed into Revenue Service on Sunday, October 9, 1994.
Just a couple of months ago, with the completion of the first phase of the rehabilitation of the Downtown
rail, we had an opportunity to celebrate the 30-year anniversary and more or less showcase what had been
done relative to do the rail replacement, so we can ensure futuristically that we have this viable network for
future generations. So as I talked about RTD opening up the rail line in 1994, UTA, being the Utah Transit
Authority's TRAX rail line, opened five years later, in December 1999. So initially, our line was named the
Metro area connection. It was the only line in the system at that time.
The later naming convention would come later, and this line became known as the D line as it traversed
the heart of Downtown Denver. At that time, the entire corridor stretched from 30th and Downing to I-25,
5.3 miles in total. For context, the entire light rail network now consists of more than 60 miles of track,
traveled by approximately 200 light rail vehicles serving 57 stations.
So the Downtown Loop, a component of RTD's inaugural light rail line, is located primarily within the Central
Business District of Downtown Denver, served currently by the D, H, and L lines. Trains operate in a streetrunning fashion, meaning that there is no dedicated right-of-way. Public utilities, such as electric, gas, and
water lines, run underneath the existing paved track. Later in the presentation, I will show a cross-section
of the elements of the paved track that will need to be reconstructed.
So now I will just give you an overview of reconstruction. So this prioritization that I've been talking about
is due to service-related wear and degradation, due in part to deicing chemicals used on the roadways. To

be reconstructed and to have a targeted design life of at least another 30 years, phase 1 of the project
included in-depth full reconstruction of five intersections in the Downtown Loop.
Phase 2, 3, and 4 will commence, most likely in 2026. The numbering of these phases does not necessarily
correspond to their order of importance, but are rather segmented to denote the focus on the specific
sections of rail that will be reconstructed in those areas.
So now I want to take the opportunity to orient those that may not be familiar with the nomenclature I'm
utilizing. So on the screen, you can see an actual photograph of the paved track in the Downtown core, and
to the left, quite naturally, these colored elongated bars.
And so a note on the terminology, these are the technical terms and may be referred to by others using
different terms. But as we look at the concrete tie that's identified by the red bar, it is a concrete railroad tie
similar to the wooden ties people may be more familiar with. So if you saw an exposed rail and you see
those wooden ties, if you were to walk-- well, you shouldn't be walking across the track. But I'm certain that
many people can understand what I'm referencing.
So this is the same thing as an exposed wooden railroad tie. So the track ballast, which is denoted by more
or less the periwinkle-- or not periwinkle, the aqua color blue, this is the material which forms the track bed
upon which railroad ties are laid. It is packed between and below and around the ties. It is used to bear the
compression load of the railroad ties, rails, and rolling stock.
Rolling stock being the actual [INAUDIBLE], the rail cars that constitute a train. And to facilitate drainage
and keep down vegetation that can compromise the integrity of the combined track structure. Now, the sub
ballast, which is the darker blue underneath, is a layer used to distribute the loads from the ballast to the
subgrade, as well as to mitigate climate-based subgrade problems.
What I mean by that is during hot weather, you can have rail that expands. And quite naturally, if it's colder,
it can contract. And that's why we traditionally have issues. And in most areas that you may be familiar with,
that's why they have subterranean rail. They may use a cut-and-cover, subterranean underground cut-andcover, which is more or less rail placed in a box that looks like it's underground as well, or maybe just a top
cover that's in a trench with a cover on top to protect those assets.
But here, we do have exposed rail. And then, lastly, the duct bank that is that lighter color green is the
underground reinforced concrete or metal container used for laying utility lines, such as electric and
telecommunication cables. So wanted to take that time just to orient you so you understand the nature of
the work in which we are endeavoring to do to keep our railway network in a state of good repair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson, I hate to interrupt you. We're having a couple technical issues with the
audio. So we're going to take just a quick pause-DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, cool.
JULIEN BOUQUET: --to restart it.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JACK KROLL: Yeah, testing, 1, 2. Those online, can you hear? Mike Smith, if you're there, can you
acknowledge?

MIKE SMITH: I can hear you, Jack. You're nice and clear.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, it's nice and clear.
JACK KROLL: OK, great. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for your patience.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, sure thing.
[LAUGHTER]

Did that sound crazy? No.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

DEBRA JOHNSON: All right.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, Ms. Johnson, whenever you're ready. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right, so to reiterate, as we go into the phases, that these do not denote any type
of priority. Phase 1 was completed ahead of schedule, as some returning Board members may recall, in
the summer of 2024. And phases 2 through 4 are scheduled to commence in 2026.
So let's delve into this. On the slide before you, there are five different photographs with numbers that
correlate to the intersections, which we successfully completed ahead of schedule this past summer. So
the work was sequenced in such a way that not all intersections were impacted at the same time. Vehicular
traffic was able to move through these areas while the work was underway.
Quite naturally, we worked hand in hand with the city and county of Denver's Department of Transportation
and Infrastructure, keeping in mind that we do not have auspices over the right-of-way, nor the
infrastructure, so had to get permits from them. And as we go forward, that would be the same case as
well.
So I just wanted to iterate that and more or less stress that we had a great partnership in working with the
city and county of Denver. From a communications vantage point, we leveraged with the city and county of
Denver, Downtown Denver Partnership, other entities as we put out information and met with different
businesses and hotels and other businesses so they had an understanding of what was coming before
them.
So moving forward to the next slide, for this phase, the rail segments in this area, between the intersections
undergoing reconstruction last year, will be reconstructed in phase 2. So keeping in mind that we did the
intersections, more or less, we're going to do the straight away in the track that are within the streets and
not at the intersection.

The reason why the intersections were so important for us to do first, keeping in mind that there was other
vehicle traffic that traversed those intersections, so you had garbage trucks and buses and heavy vehicles
that compromised the ballast and the railroad ties, of which was hard for us to deduce without going in. And
that's why we made the decision to do those intersections first to support the network, since they're more
greatly exposed to heavy vehicle weight. So keeping in mind that this construction will impact the D, H, and
L lines.
So moving on, as it relates to phase 3, this full-depth rail reconstruction will take place along a segment of
track that runs parallel to Colfax. And so this work does not include segments of track near the Colorado
Convention Center, as they were subject to very targeted repairs. And also, it's important to note that while
we have this rail line, the convention center is newer than the inaugural rail line that went in 1994, so work
had already been done.
So when we're talking about that 30-year threshold, work had already commenced. And hence, that's why
there were targeted segments that were done previously. And so, as I said before, the D and H lines will
be impacted with this segment.
So as it relates to phase 4, this is the Welton Street Corridor, again, a full-depth reconstruction of track
along the Welton Corridor between Welton and Broadway intersection and 30th and Downing. The L line
will be the only rail line impacted by this work. One thing I do want to note before I move on to another
segment of this, is that, for those that may not be aware, we have been fortunate through our-- it's really
called a community grant program now.
But in previous years it was called earmarks from the Federal government, whereby we have received
federal earmarks over the course of at least the past three to four years, whereby we receive monies. And
that is helping with this reconstruction. It's not all of the money. It's basically, off the top of my head, Doug
MacLeod, it's probably about $10 million.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: About $10 million. Just checking that my memory isn't faulty. OK, so going ahead to
Kalamath. So Kalamath Street Crossing, you have the information on the slides. I'm going to keep it moving
because we're getting a little late, and I'm getting a little lengthy with my words here. But it's the grade
crossing.
It's part of the original light rail corridor. This is another segment where you do have vehicles traversing this
area as well. It serves the D and H line. And 16 trains cross Kalamath per hour.
But also, you have vehicular traffic as well. And that's why this is critically important. We did some temporary
work in 2024. When we finished the Downtown rail reconstruction phase 1 early, we were able to do some
work then since we finished beforehand, and we had scope. But we're going to go in and do the ultimate
reconstruction of that.
So as we talk about service impacts, both the D and H lines, as I said, will be impacted. So we're going to
reroute those during the work. And they will terminate at Denver Union Station, just as we did last summer.
The L line will be suspended for the duration.
When we get to that phase, the customers can utilize route 43 bus service as an alternative. There will be
route line changes that will align with the commencement of service changes as we move forward when

we do this. So we will ensure that we are being methodical as we move forward. And we'll have a robust
communications campaign, just as we did last summer as well.
And as we know, it's important to communicate early and often. And with the support of my colleagues in
Communications and Engagement, we will ensure we do that. So just impacted bus routes, these are the
same bus routes, more or less, that we had showcased last year. But I want everybody to be aware that
these bus routes will not all be impacted at the same time, because it's based upon the phasing as we go
forward and how we will do work as we progress.
So really quickly, the next steps. Uh-oh, so we commenced with a request for proposal in December of
2024. I do want to say I'm going to be really brief with my comments here, recognizing that we have active
solicitation since their blackout periods. So in February, we released a request for quotes for the Kalamath
Street Crossing. And that request for quotes basically was do this week.
As relates to the request for proposals with the rail reconstruction, that solicitation is due on April 15. And
then, keeping in mind we'll have a better understanding once we can assess the proposals and the quotes
we receive, we have a better understanding of what is needed relative to sequencing, and we will ensure
that we have Communications and Outreach Campaign launch.
And then, as you all know, made a commitment to bring these things back to the Board. So you will hear
additional information as we come forward with any type of contractual agreements going forward. But
wanted to ensure that we provided this information at this juncture to ensure that everybody was grounded
in the direction in which we're going.
So that concludes my report on this. So if the Board office staff can take that down, I will quickly finish my
report. As it relates to customer excellence, in alignment with the Welcoming Transit Environment Strategic
Initiative, the agency has redoubled efforts related to personal safety and security. You heard comments
from one of the commenters earlier. I believe it was Earl Lee who chairs our Advisory Committee with
people with disabilities who commented on the news reports that he had seen.
Our efforts have extended far beyond the expansion of the agency's police department, which is on track
of 450 sworn officers by the end of 2025. And to highlight many of these efforts, the Communications and
Engagement Department did launch a comprehensive public web page to communicate RTD's public and
personal safety efforts.
The link to the page can be found at RTD-denver.com/yoursafety or via link located at the agency's home
page. It's important to note that all RTD police officers now carry hand-held fare validators, which allows
them to perform fare enforcement checks across the transit system. Typically, this function has only been
left to our third-party security contractor.
A campaign is also underway to promote the Transit Watch app, which since its inception in 2014, has
garnered more than 45,000 unique users. QR codes linking to app download options can now be found onboard transit vehicles and at stations and stops. And as a result of these cumulative efforts and many
others, I'm pleased to note that the calls for service were cut in half in February. I believe the commenter
said that incidents were cut down.
But we're talking about calls and service. And we say calls and service, that runs the gamut. That could be
somebody saw somebody tagging an asset, so it's graffiti. They may have needed some assistance.

It could have been that somebody was in distress. So I just want to qualify, since I do have this forum, that
everyone's quick to assume that somebody was in a state of emergency relative to their personal security
being violated. But these calls of service could range from somebody using an elevator where they saw
some nefarious activity or something of the like as well.
So also earlier this week, RTD implemented a back-end upgrade to a service alert system. So effective
Thursday, last Thursday, on March 20, a long format text messages can now be sent to customers.
Previously, the system limited us to 260 characters, and any alerts beyond that length would be truncated
or snipped. And so now the shortened messages would then require a user to click a URL. And basically,
that's not enhancing the customer experience as we focus on customer and community connections with
our strategic initiative for 2025.
And so following a back-end update to RTD system, service alerts can now be up to 1,530 characters long
and are in the same format as an email alert. And so this enhancement means that customers can easily
see the alert in its entirety as one text message. And all customers currently subscribed to receive text
message service alerts were sent an introductory alert last Thursday. And we have seen through our
customer care that customers have basically put forward a lot of positive response.
So really quickly, as many of you know, March is Women's History Month. And earlier this month, the
agency unveiled a 40-foot bus wrap to celebrate the occasion. The wrap's theme is "Moving forward
together, women, education, and inspiring generations," and features many women employees, each of
whom have made significant contributions to the agency.
And so other buses in the series include artwork that honors Asian-American, Native Hawaiian Pacific
Islander Heritage Month, Pride Month. We had the 60th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act and the Hispanic
Latinx Heritage Month. And each bus reflects RTD's commitment to making lives better through connections
within the diverse communities that the agency serves.
So rounding out, I'm proud to announce that RTD's marketing team was recognized with an Ad Wheel
Award during the recent Marketing, Communications, and Customer Experience Workshop hosted by
APTA in Long Beach. RTD's winning video, which can be found on the agency's YouTube channel, earned
a Best Electronic Media Educational Initiative Award. The video details the ways new customers can utilize
RTD services, including amenities, different payment methods, how to validate tickets and passes, and
what to do while on board.
The annual award competition offers an opportunity to share industry best practices and to raise the
awareness and the value of public transportation. Each year, grant award winners are selected from among
the first-place winners. And this year, grant awardees will be honored during the APTA Transform
Conference that will be held this September in Boston. And there is a designated section of the Transform
Conference that is the awards luncheon.
And last Tuesday, March 18, RTD joined transit agencies nationwide celebrating Transit Employee
Appreciation Day, as you all know, a day set aside to recognize individuals that do this tireless efforts as it
relates to connecting communities and giving selflessly of themselves. The agency promoted the event by
way of communications campaign that included the launch of a dedicated web page, social media posts,
in-person events, and internal communications. So I want to take this opportunity once again to thank all
those that comprise this agency and all the dedicated and hard work they do to make lives better through
connections.

And last, but certainly not least, this evening, I want to take the opportunity to share some updates regarding
the agency's leadership team. Greg Smith, who is seated in the back-- give a wave, Greg-- who recently
served as Deputy Assistant General Manager of bus Operations, stepped into the acting role technically at
5:01 PM last Friday when Fred Worthen departed the agency, who left to join the Jacksonville
Transportation Agency in North Florida as the Vice Present of Operations.
And commencing this Friday, we have Brenden Morgan. Hi, Brenden. He's currently, as you know, Senior
Manager of Debt and Investments. And he will serve as acting Chief Financial Officer following CFO Doug
MacLeod's last official day in the office. I say that because Doug will still be leaning in a little bit to help with
some other activities. Hence, that's why we didn't fully recognize him being retired today.
And at this juncture, I just want to say, I cannot thank Doug enough for his tireless efforts over the past 15
years here at the agency, and particularly during my tenure with RTD. Doug was serving as the comptroller
when I first joined the agency. And he was my first hire as the GM and CEO. And I could have not made a
better decision. I, along with many here at the agency, will remember Doug for his kindness,
professionalism, diligence, and his humor after he signs off on his last official day.
And I'm certainly not alone in wishing Doug a bon voyage as he sets off to explore the country in his welldeserved retirement. Please join me in giving Doug a standing ovation, even though he would prefer to go
quietly. I would be remiss if I didn't do so.
[APPLAUSE]

And at the expense of embarrassing him because he doesn't like that kind of stuff, I will yield the floor and
thank you for your patience.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. And of course, speaking on behalf of the Board,
Mr. MacLeod, as I stated during our Finance and Planning Committee meeting, the amount of sacrifice, the
amount of time, and the amount of effort that you put into this agency, we wouldn't be in a financially stable
position, financially secure position without all your hard work. So this Board thanks you for that. At this
time, I would like to offer any questions or comments from directors. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: General question, should it please the board. I can work with General Manager, CEO
Johnson and our Government Relations Specialist, Michael Davies, for an invitation to the Denver Land
Use, Transportation, and Infrastructure Committee Chair. Councilman Watson-- thank you-- to attend and
perhaps apprise us of any issues from Denver side, communication from Denver side as well when we go
forward with these projects.
Just need a nod of approval from everybody. And we can work on that as they are the group that I spend a
lot of time with. And I love invading their meeting space because I learn a lot about my city. But also, it's a
great time to connect with that entire committee. And so he has expressed an interest to join us during our
Board meetings. We just need to schedule it out properly for both sides.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Director Guzman. Yeah, I think we're getting some
head nods and thumbs up on that, so appreciate your efforts on that. Any other questions or comments for
the GM-CEO at this time? OK, moving on. Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for your report.

All right, moving on to unanimous consent. There are four items on the unanimous consent agenda, listed
under Section 15, actions A through D. Those items are for the service planning standards and service
performance reporting, the internal audit charter, the proposed 2025-2026 internal audit plan, and
amendments to the Board Operating guidelines regarding engagement with staff and meeting time
management.
Director Guzman has requested that item D, amendments to the Board operating guidelines regarding
engagement with staff and meeting time management be moved to recommended action. So that will be
voted on first when we move to that section. If anyone else has a change or discussion on any of the
questions about the remaining unanimous consent items, please feel free to advise me at this time. And at
this course, we'll be happy to pull the item from unanimous consent. Yes, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I wasn't able to attend our last audit meeting. And I was wondering if
there was anyone who might have any updates since the last one, because it involves our yearly audit plan.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Might call on Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The packet for the Audit Committee is online and has all the
presentations and slide decks for what we discussed. Kind of difficult to go through here briefly at this
meeting. So I would recommend you start there. Have any questions, you can always reach out to me.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha would you like that item pulled from unanimous consent?
[INAUDIBLE]
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, sir. I should have been more clear that I was wondering if there was any specific
highlights. I did see the packet, but I didn't attend the meeting. And I will follow up with Director Buzek if I
have questions. But thanks for entertaining my question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you for the comments. Any other items that we'd like to see pulled
from unanimous consent? Excellent, seeing none, may I have a motion to approve these items A through
C on the consent agenda?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Whitmore is the mover.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I've got Catlin as the second. These items will pass with unanimous consent. All right,
there are four recommended actions. Oh, excuse me. I am so sorry. Thanks for reminding me. Are there
any no votes on this item? OK, and any discussion? No, thanks for catching me on that. I see 15 to zero.
These will pass. Thank you.
All right, there are four recommended actions on the agenda tonight under section 16, for actions D, E, F,
and G. The first action, D, is for amendments to the Board Operating Guidelines regarding engagement
with staff and meeting time management, for the Board of Directors to adopt amendments to the Board
Operating Guidelines regarding engagement with staff and meeting time management, do I have a mover?
LYNN GUISSINGER: [INAUDIBLE]

JULIEN BOUQUET: I've got Guissinger as a mover. And a second?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Chandler as a second. Is there any discussion on this item? Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It has not been our practice until recently that items that come from Executive
Committee, even if unanimous, are put on unanimous consent. The use of unanimous consent, according
to Robert's Rules, should only be used thoughtfully, keeping in mind protection of the minority opinion on
such matters. I state that because there are only five members of the Executive Committee.
And that's only one third of the Board, where our regular standing committees have around seven directors
each. So I want to be careful with that type of change going forward. And I would offer this opinion to you
about that with regard to this, Board Operating Guidelines affect all 15 of us and probably should not go to
unanimous consent and be discussed here in this body properly before we make any determination to
change them.
That said, I don't know that we have consensus around these changes. I certainly did not have time to
provide feedback, nor was I directly asked for it. I found out about these changes listening to the copy of
the meeting on YouTube when I was able to, after my regular employment had ended the day that you had
the Executive Committee meeting.
It was a good conversation. I appreciate all the points and that more work will come from a work committee
of directors who I hope will engage in a more detailed way with all of us, because these are things we have
to agree to and implement.
That said, I am not ready to move forward with this as a director. I would vote no right now. But I would
suggest perhaps it would be appropriate to table this recommended action until, let's say the retreat as a
date, certain, to bring it back that month after we've had plenty of time to discuss these changes and
reconsider the item at that time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Director Guzman. Are there anything of specific
concerns regarding the changes that you had?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It seems to counter itself in a couple of ways, that Committee Chairs should manage
the time of a meeting and how we move through them, but then also, doesn't allow that to happen by
restricting or allowing a specific amount of time, as delineated here.
That's one thing. I think it's kind of counterintuitive. Either you trust your Chair to manage the time of the
meeting and move forward on subjects, and I think that there is a way to do that with respect to all directors
who might have a little bit more to say on a subject matter. Or we may need to explore a different avenue
or thought process with a little more time and concern for that director to express everything.
But also, for example, Performance Committee meets in the morning. And we have time limits on the end
for everybody that's participating in that, unlike our evening meetings in Finance and Planning, which can
run a little bit later or longer. Really being able to maneuver through that is important.
We have seen meetings run well past the planned time. We've seen some finished before the planned time.
And so I have concerns as an acting Committee Chair right now that my hands might be tied if I have to
follow some of these rules, and we wouldn't efficiently be able to have that meeting.

So I think that it's a good start. But there's more work to be done, and maybe input is needed from your
chairs and vice chairs of the committees, who are really working to make sure that these are efficient and
well run meetings. That's one item.
The other item is, I do have questions about the use of staff time in this with respect to staff who do an
amazing job anyway. I'm confused as a Director. I brought this up last year and the year before that
sometimes it feels like I, as an elected director, a part of this committee, am not allowed to ask staff
questions.
And I have grave concerns about that because I am not often asking questions because I have a personal
interest in it. I am conveying messages from constituents, concerns from community, or trying to get
information as an elected official to return back to the conversations, which this body has so boldly put
forward as our goals for this year of interacting with other elected officials and community leaders.
And now I'm being told not to do that. That's what this feels like. And so I would like to have a larger
conversation with all of you here to seek understanding and try and understand this, but I don't know that
we have enough or sufficient time to do that here tonight. And I would suggest that we lay this over until we
have an opportunity to have that communication.
The recommendations could be sound, but they're prohibitive in some ways and exclusionary in other ways.
And I don't know how to do that. Also, serving as a director that is chairing two separate committees, which
I am humbled to do, I am using a lot of staff time just for the purpose of making those committees work.
So as an individual director, am I then going to be penalized in some way when I have to do just director
work that is not related specifically to committee, for example, getting a constituent complaint and a
violation-- two different violations submitted to me from the Department of Health and Environment, from
the city and county of Denver that needed to be addressed as a director of a district where there was a
problem and needing to go to various staff members, cuts into the four-hour time limit here that is listed,
effectively inhibiting me from doing any further work with staff on any other matter outside of committee
work. And that makes me an ineffective director.
So by making this change, I do have questions. I understand the purpose, but we need to have some
clarification on this. And I need some specific understanding and engagement with the thought process
behind some of these rules, where they're coming from, and what they seek to resolve, other than just
limiting the time that I have as a director to participate with staff. That's all I have. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. I'm-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mr. Chair, was that an official motion to table, which would be-MICHAEL GUZMAN: We need a second.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: You need a second. And we would need to address that before we come back to the
underlying-MICHAEL GUZMAN: So if it wasn't clear, I move to table this until the February or until the next retreat
date, and then we can take it back up and consider it at that month's meeting.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Is there a second? Oh, Ms. Snyder.

MELANIE SNYDER: Mr. Chair, if we could just ask for some clarification, the motion would be to postpone
the matter to a date certain. So if we could pick a date, and then we'll call for a second on that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I simply don't remember the date of our planned retreat because it has changed.
JULIEN BOUQUET: The 7th.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: June? So I would then say we could bring this back up at the June Board meeting.
JACK KROLL: So, Director Guzman, if I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: You know, it's typically not something that the Board would take an action item up at the
retreat. That's just typically not been something that's done. Would you be amenable to having this be a
discussion at the retreat, but then returned to the-JULIEN BOUQUET: That's what he said.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, discussion at the retreat, but then have the action item returned at the June Board
meeting?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So we lay this over to a date certain. I'm asking to table this until the June Board
meeting so we have time to have discussion between now and the June Board meeting around what these
Board Operating Guidelines perceivably do, so we can reach consensus on them.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Who's the second?
IAN HARWICK: Right here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, Harwick is the second. OK, this is a motion to postpone. Before I do make
the roll call, this is debatable. I'm just personally a little shocked because there's been multiple
communication.
We've discussed this in Executive Committee, brought forward, was looking for any feedback, have
addressed this on every weekly update from the Chair if there's any specific feedback that we wanted to
address. And now we're kind of at the 11th hour. So that's kind of the frustration with it.
I believe that if we table this right now, we're just taking away months of time of trying to make our system
more efficient, trying to make our system more respectful of our staff. And to address the question of what
context do you want, there are requests from directors that take more than four hours of time, and the
directors do not do anything with that information.
Staff are sacrificing hours, if not days, with what is being requested. And again, what this proposes, thanks
to Director Gutschenritter, is based on the amendment, would say, hey, if this is going over four hours, we
as the five Executive Committee members would look into it and think, hey, would this justify going over
that four hour rule? I don't think it's limiting directors' free speech or inquiries at all. It's just more respecting
our staff's time.

And again, there's frustration from staff that these inquiries are being made and there's nothing that ever
happens or is done with these inquiries. And frankly, we're exhausting our staff with some of these inquiries
that don't go anywhere. Frankly, we're not getting-- that this is more of the agency as a whole. And what
my job I'm trying to do as the Chair is making sure that we're sustainable, we're respectful of our staff as
public elected officials, and making sure the inquiries that we go forward with actually are helpful and
meaningful for those who put us in these seats.
If we're just going forward with inquiries that go nowhere, that's where the frustration lies. That's where we
have it where there is staff hesitancy when it comes down to actual requests that go to policy change. So I
think it is a major, major misstep for us to try to postpone this for months on end as we continue to wear
out staff, as we continue to go forward with inquiries that don't help as policy matters. So I urge my fellow
directors to vote No on this postponement. Are there any other further discussion? Secretary Nicholson and
then Ruscha.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you-- sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I supported these amendments in
committee. I said then that they were well crafted and I appreciated the work that our Chair had done. I still
do. I think they are well crafted.
And I think we should postpone them. And here's why. These amendments are not like a normal motion on
which we vote on something and it goes into effect, and the thing happens or it doesn't. These are binding
all of us basically to behave appropriately and to act according to our own-- they ask us to be honest.
They are guidelines. They are not rules. And so passing them without overwhelming consensus is
essentially setting ourselves up for a situation that is bound to fail. I have seen this happen in other
organizations. I've seen it happen when I was in school.
If we pass this 8 to 7, those seven directors can say, well, I don't agree with them, I'm not going to follow
them, and if I get caught, then you can do what you want. And I don't think that's helpful for us. I think, in
this particular case, and normally I'm a "vote on it and move on" kind of guy. We have too much else to do.
In this particular case, it is worth trying to get as much consensus as we can reasonably get so that everyone
is bought in from the beginning. And I think if we force this through tonight, it would probably pass. And
then we would be in a situation where a lot of people would be really, really upset with the guidelines that
we are all being asked to follow.
So I'm a big supporter. I will support this if it gets to a vote. But I think what we should do, for the sake of
consensus and the sake of everyone's buy in, is push it to the retreat, listen more, and then come to
something that we can all live with. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Director Benker. Sorry, Ruscha, I saw first. OK. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: I am a new director, so I'm still learning a lot of things. There's no doubt I have a lot to
learn. And I ask a lot of questions. This particular one did concern me from the beginning.
I have felt that I've been given freedom to talk to our staff and ask my questions. It may not always relate
to a Board goal, but I feel that since we're the governing body, we should have access to our staff and
access to information. I do like the way it's written.
And both Director Chandler and I are going to be reviewing these and hopefully shortening them. I see most
of these items on this-- what is it, four, six page document, it's more voluntary and recommendations. So I

would like to go forward with this tonight and move this forward knowing that we're going to be reworking
these things and getting everyone's comments.
And at that point, sometime later this year when we have a draft document, I think that would be a good
time to really have a thorough and feisty conversation and see what we can do and move forward at that
point. So I would urge that we pass it tonight, and then in a couple of months, we'll be rewriting the whole
thing. But I do respect your concern because I also had some of those concerns. And I think at this point,
we can try to work some of that out and go forward. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Treasurer Benker. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I concur with the comments made by Director Guzman and
Secretary Nicholson in terms of building consensus. And it's actually part of our Board Operating Guidelines
and our culture, whether we write it down or it's unspoken, that as much as you can, when you are moving
policy, that you reach out to everybody.
And sometimes folks get busy, you can't catch a person. But a text, a call, an email is not much to ask,
especially when something is going to affect all of us, because this is internal governance. And again, I'm
keeping in mind our Board Operating Guidelines. And it was contentious last year. And I thought we had
settled things.
But we also assume the best intentions. So what I am about to say, I hope, is not interpreted as me attacking
anyone's intentions or anything like that. I'm not. But I will be honest in that, when I saw the draft, I did
respond with some concerns.
And I reached out to the Board Office and I reached out to the Chair, and I didn't get a call back. And I
thought, people are busy, it's OK, and there's a lot going on. But as noted, this has been circulating, at least
in Executive and amongst a couple of folks who had more knowledge than others, I think, not everybody
can attend a midday Thursday meeting, especially if you have another job or responsibilities.
And I have concerns about how this is drafted. And I don't want to take up too much time. Happy to be very
specific. I think one might violate our bylaws. I think two lines contradict each other. I have questions on
another. And there is one sentence that is clearly a term of art.
So for me, I wanted to participate, not just I have a concern, but I thought I could also contribute. in addition,
we are still lacking language here regarding equity and accommodations and diversity. We talked about
that last year.
But we have a code of ethics we're also bound to and it's covered there. So it never made it into the BOG.
And I wanted to participate. And I felt like there was no space at the table. And I'm not blaming anyone one
person. That was my experience.
So I also know we have a really diverse party. And we're really passionate. And when we had our retreat,
I will be honest, I walked in with a stomach ache, I kind of had the icky feeling because we had a rough first
Board meeting and there was tension. And you know what? I thought about it a couple days later, and I
was like, whoa, that was my third retreat. And we got so much done.
Those work plans were like 80% drafted. We met the Chair's deadline and worked around the clock to get
consensus and process. And we don't see each other in person a lot, right, just once a month. But when

we say, hey, I want to get something done for the good of the order, we really rock it. We've done so much
in just a couple of months.
And for me, I truly believe that, yeah, maybe this passes tonight. But is there a is there a compromise here?
Can we maybe not-- I would like to table to the retreat for the purpose of us being together. We do our best
work when we're together. Maybe we could hold a special meeting, and then it can not be delayed as much,
and understand more about what it is we're trying to solve.
And then it's 15, because these are our guidelines. And we're going to be stronger if we have that broad
consensus. And that was something we talked about at the retreat, was trying to find the broadest
consensus possible. So I feel just after what we went through last year with the BOG and because of our
current guidelines, that it might do more harm than good to push today.
But there is a middle ground between those of us who want to wait till the retreat, and I'm one of them, and
pass today. So perhaps, Mr. Chair, if your amenable to it, we can find that so we get the best possible
outcome instead of just the majority. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect, thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I read through these and I felt that they were pretty common sense solutions.
And I know that we have Directors Benker and Chandler that are going to be working on it. I don't see why
this could not be a topic for the retreat, and maybe we would have some data from staff to see if, if this
passes, how it's working and how it could be improved.
But I didn't see anything too onerous in there. But I think that the directors could keep these guidelines on
the top of their mind before they make a request. Is this really going to solve a problem, is this information
that the rest of the Board can use to make decisions on policy. And I personally think that they're fairly
common sense. I understand the desire to perhaps postpone it.
But we might find ourselves in the same situation in June. So as I said, I read through them this afternoon
again, and I think they're fairly common sense. And they do show that we respect staff's time. So that's my
two cents worth.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. I'm going to call on Director Larsen next. I do
want to remind us, we're in debate of postponement-- of postponement, and then we can go back to the
debate of the actual merits of the amendment. Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I just wanted to say a brief comment in response to your concern that we are taking
up staff time and not doing anything with it. But after we find out, I mean, I guess part of me thinks,
unfortunately, that deciding not to go forward with the policy is not necessarily a bad outcome of that. But
my real comment is that I would suggest, and that perhaps instead of postponing until the retreat, given
that there seem to be some urgency to this, that maybe we just push it one more month and consider it
then. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate everyone's comments about caution, but this is at
the Executive Committee meeting, hearing. And based on conversations with senior management, this is
a critical issue. And we have a serious retention issue.

And I would say that when we're talking about this as only impacts on us and Board culture and Board
rules, that isn't capturing what this is actually intended to do, which is go easier on our staff. And so the
wonderful thing that we've got as a gift is we're going to look at all the Board operating procedures, we're
going to look at everything within a few months.
And I would love to try this and see anecdotally if people are restricted. And if they are, I'll be the first person
to back a change to it. But right now, both in reality of answering staff concerns and the appearance of our
attention to it, I think requires approval tonight, and then a review when we do the full consideration.
So I'd ask everyone to move forward tonight. And I promise that if they are more than anecdotal but real
restrictions, I'll be the first one to support the change. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, First Vice Chair O'Keefe. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Chair. And thanks for your work on this. I agree with the comments of Directors
O'Keeffe and Catlin. There's no reason to postpone this. Let's move this forward. This is critical and very
important for our staff.
And Mr. Chair, I do read your weekly updates, so I've been apprised of this. I can't make those 11:00 AM
meetings either, but I can watch the replay. So I do that. And we're going to have two directors that are
going to be looking at all of these things. And we can always refine these. We need to move this forward.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Buzek Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I can defer to Director-JULIEN BOUQUET: Nicholson, you're recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Fair enough. I thought she had not spoken yet. I actually just have a question for
staff, basically, which is what prevents us from enforcing-- not enforce-- what prevents us from doing what
is in these amendments right now simply by the Chair, asking the Executive Manager to don't fill those
requests.
I'm willing to guess that in previous iterations of the Board, going back 20 years, that you have had chairs
who basically said, this is happening, please do this differently. And so I'm wondering, in this situation, isn't
there an argument for, OK, we can't come to consensus, we've got people who are really upset, we've got
people who disagree, we've got people who think it's good, can't the Chair just informally say, I'm going to
instruct staff to not let directors misuse their privileges, and basically handle this in a reasonable fashion
using your Chair's privilege?
Or do we have to-- is the only way for us to have these kind of changes to alleviate the burden on staff-- is
the only way to alleviate that burden, to do it as part of a formal change to the Board Operating Guidelines?
That's basically my question for you, General Counsel.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you for the question, Director Nicholson. I mean, I think you're all aware,
you're elected officials. So ultimately, the consequences, I think we know what the consequences are.
You're accountable to the voters. What we're talking about right now are Board Operating Guidelines.

And they're just that, they're guidelines. They're not enforceable. No one can be removed from the Board.
They're really the customs that you all are adopting and agreeing to adhere to. So I think that's really all
we're talking about tonight.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Snyder. Thank you. Secretary Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'll be brief. I hear the concerns, and in particular Director Guzman's,
since he's Chair and all of that. But I think they are operating guidelines. I think that there is room in here
for your needs in terms of working with staff and all of that. And it's really great that we have Director Benker
and Director Chandler offering to carry on this conversation and to specifically look at these things. So I
guess I fall in the camp of moving forward, passing these, and then discussing them further when we can.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. I'll take my Chair's privilege before I call
for the vote for postponement-- postponement. Again, as First Vice Chair O'Keefe has brought up, as many
have brought up, I believe this is a very critical issue that needs to be addressed.
These are operating guidelines that, again, Director Chandler, Director Benker are going to be looking at.
For me, it just doesn't make sense for us to, I'm saying, let's postpone it to a month. OK, well, you're going
to get four more weekly updates from me in a month. Are any of those going to be read? Or am I going to
receive any feedback from that?
And again, that's the frustration is we're at this 11th hour, I never received any feedback going forward with
this. So I think a postponement is just trying to kick the can down the road. We have a working group to
look at this. They're going to be officially looking into it, doing a deep dive.
What this proposed would be, based on the timeline, is making sure that we're being as efficient as possible
and respectful of our staff during this process. This is going to be under review. If there's major changes
with it, we can look forward to going into the future. So with that, I'm going to take a roll call vote. This is a
vote on to postpone this to the June Board meeting.
JACK KROLL: So, Chair, if I may, to clarify, a Yes vote would be in support of the motion to postpone, a
No vote would be opposed to that notion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect, thank you, yes. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, the motion to postpone has failed 11 to 4. 4 to 11. OK.
VINCE BUZEK: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: The Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, I am also a No vote. Thank you for clarifying. Thank you.
BRETT PAGLIERI: It was worth a thought.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, so that motion will fail. Back to the original motion. Is there any further
discussion regarding the Board Operating Guidelines.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Sir?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'd like to make a motion to divide the question so that we may consider each new
operating guideline individually. We have several.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so the motion is there. Is there a second on that motion? There's very many. Is
there a second? OK, no second. So that fails.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, I will second that motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: To break-MICHAEL GUZMAN: To divide the question and consider each individually. There are at least two items in
there that contradict each other, and one that potentially violates our Board bylaws.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so we have a second on that, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, at this point, as opposed to debating the actual merits of the proposal, you need to
vote on whether to divide the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, may I.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for recognizing me. Just in case there was any misunderstanding, I'm only
talking about the new additions. Not all the pages, just the new additions, that that was the dividing the
question. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So I think we have-KAREN BENKER: So there's now-JULIEN BOUQUET: So this is looking like I think nine additions. So it'd be nine separate questions. OK,
let's call a roll call vote to divide it then. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: [INAUDIBLE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a No. It'll fail to divide the question, 4 to 11. OK, back to amendments to the Board
Operating Guidelines regarding engagement with staff and meeting time management. Are there any
further discussions or questions on this? Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Although I have spoken twice, so if someone else also raised their
hand, I'm happy to yield. OK, thank you, sir. Also, if you could give me a second, because I inadvertently
clicked over to CART, and I need to click back so that I'm referencing this properly.

I guess I'll just start with just the questions I know I have on the top of my head. So when it comes to this
new rule about four hours of staff time, the Board has direct oversight over two staff members. How could
Executive Committee authorize somebody else's time?
That falls under our GM/CEO. In fact, if I would like to speak to a member of our senior leadership team,
even as a Chair, I still communicate with her and I get her permission. So could whoever brought that
forward, could you explain how that works and how that doesn't conflict with our bylaws or our delegation
of authority? Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha, can you state the question one more time? I'm so sorry.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, how could Executive Committee under our current bylaws, which I personally
believe Executive Committee doesn't have this authority, because it's not in the bylaws. But if it did, how
could the Executive Committee or the Chair authorize staff time beyond GM/CEO Debra Johnson or Mr.
Jack Kroll given that they're not responsible for the schedules of all of our other staff? But where does that
power come from? Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: The power to the Executive Committee? We as a 15 Board voted for us in these five
seats during our 1st January Board meeting.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Gosh, gosh, [INAUDIBLE] let me just ask. Respectfully, sir, even as Board Chair, you
cannot say to Mr. Carter, you must do this, meet with this person, hold a group, et cetera. Does that make
sense? You don't have that authority. That would be our GM/CEO or some other person.
So I'm asking, if we want more than four hours of staff time, that's generic, any staff, where does the
authority come from the Executive Committee to dictate that time? That's what I'm asking. And then, I
guess, not the question, but the similar line of thinking is couldn't someone just get around that by speaking
with the GM/CEO, who-- she's [INAUDIBLE]. Does that kind of makes sense? That's who I go to when I
need staff time on something.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Might need a little clarification, Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I think in this case that we're amending our Board Operating Guidelines and not our
delegation of authority or anything related to staff. This is our general agreement on how we're going to
interact with staff. It's not a management issue of staff, it's a Board Operating Guideline. So that does fall
under the Executive Committee jurisdiction.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think I must just be reading this completely different-- OK, sir, would you mind
explaining the amendment that Director Gutschenritter and you worked on, on the four hours? Please
explain how it works?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure. Yeah, absolutely. So first off, the four hour rule was established, I think it was
1996, is the memo from it, in regards, again, if you look at it, it's four hours outside of our Board goals. So
this does not obviously count when we're having discussions during meeting.
This doesn't pertain to if there's questions that are going forward with what we have on it. In reality, what
it's trying to cure is, if a director says, hey, I want to request-- give an example, I want to request the different

advertisements we have on all of our buses. And I want to know specifically what advertisers are where
and how often people might be seeing that.
It's just a specific example. Then this would say, hey, we as staff think this is going to take more than four
hours. And we believe that would be more appropriate for the director who's making that request to make
the case to the Executive Committee, make the case to the fellow directors on here, saying, hey, this is
why this information would be important to us.
And that's why I respected Director Gutschenritter's amendment, because it is directors making the case.
Again, the hope is, it's not trying to restrict directors' request or time. The hope is that the request we make
are going somewhere, it's going to an overall policy change or helping us be informed when it comes down
to policy discussion.
That's what we're curing with it. Again, and these Operating Guidelines, these aren't written in stone. It's
just, this is what we should be adhering to as directors.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I just want to restate just for understanding, because I misread what was written,
or misunderstood. So if a director would-- knows they have something that will take more than four hours
of staff time-- and this is per month, in a 30-day period. OK, just want to make sure because that was the
previous rule that we had moved away from. Then they would go to one third of the Board and ask them to
approve that on the basis of speech or policy position. Is that-JULIEN BOUQUET: They would approve it based on if they believe it's a request that we as a-- or whoever
the Executive Committee is, if we believe that's an appropriate use of staff time, if that makes sense.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, OK. But [INAUDIBLE] speech policy position. OK, thank you. I'm still not sure
how the Executive body or even all 15 of us, unless we make changes on lots of other documents, can
dictate staff time outside of two people. So is that a question I can ask of General Counsel? [INAUDIBLE].
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, so just to clarify, let's have your question asked for General Counsel Snyder.
And then I'm going to come to Director Guissinger to come back, OK?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, thank you. Thank you, sir.
MELANIE SNYDER: So Director, if I'm understanding your question, you're asking, how is it that the
Executive Committee would have authority to authorize more than four hours of staff time when the Board,
under its bylaws, has delegated all management to the GM/CEO, is that correct?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, so as I said before, since we're talking about these are Board Operating
Guidelines. And the guidelines throughout talk a lot about collaboration amongst the Board and with staff.
And so I don't necessarily want to speak for the whole Executive Committee, but my understanding of how
this would work is that they would be collaborating with GM/CEO Johnson and consulting with her about
this. I didn't get the impression during the Executive Committee discussion that the Executive Committee
was suggesting that they would come in here and take over and direct on an individual basis, without some
collaboration with our GM and CEO.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Snyder, for that answer. So I did get a report our audio is
breaking up a little bit. So we're going to take just a quick pause and--

[AUDIO OUT]

All right, thank you. OK, back where we were. I appreciate everyone's patience on that. That was just some
technical issues we're facing. So that was what that little pause was about. Who I have next on my list is
Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: To respect our staff's time, I believe that there has been enough debate and a couple
votes that indicates how people are voting on this. I call the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Buzek is the second. All right, Director Paglieri is the mover to call the question, Buzek
is a second. So there's no discussion.
JACK KROLL: There's no discussion. And you need a 2/3 majority vote to move on to a vote on the main
motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for the reminder. OK, perfect. So I'll make a roll call vote. Again, what we
are voting on is to call the question itself, not the actual motion, OK? And to end debate, thank you.
Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
- Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure, why not?
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so we will call the question. And now we're doing the vote for the amendments to
the Board Operating Guidelines regarding engagement with staff and meeting time management. All right,
Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am a No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Also a No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director-- excuse me, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, sir. Yeah, I'll be a Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Nyet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You skipped me.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I am so sorry, Director Guissinger. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I am also a Yes. So this will pass 12 to 3. Thank you for the discussion, everyone. And
thank you, everyone for your patience.
OK, moving on. Our section action is E, which is for the Board of Directors to adopt the Title VI Service
Equity Analysis Report for the May 2025 service changes to comply with federal laws, regulations,
guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Do I have a mover?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman is the mover.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Guissinger. All right, excellent. Is there any discussion on this? Yes, Director
Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just very quickly, I want to say thank you to the staff for providing this analysis. I know
it's a lot of work to do these. And you do them well. You provided a lot of good information.
Thank you for providing everything in the packet, including comments and recordings. It made for fun
reading on my bus routes and train rides. But I also got through the entire thing. And I think it's thoughtful
and well done. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Any further discussion or comments from directors? OK, are
there any No votes on this action? OK, I will do a roll call vote. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek. I believe Buzek had to hop off. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
MATT LARSEN: Also Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sure.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Respectfully, No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a Yes. It will pass 13 to 1 No and one absent. Excellent, all right, we're moving
along to the May 2025 service change, for the Board of Directors to approve the May 2025 service change
as revised and summarized in attachment A, and to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators impacted by the service
changes. Do I have a mover?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Guissinger.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Any questions on service changes? Yes, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to thank staff for the analysis. And I also wanted to applaud the public outreach.
And I read through all of the comments received. And I don't want to make any suggested changes to this
particular service change, but I would like there to be some consideration regarding the C and D line
comments that were received, and some good suggestions about perhaps alternating a C line and a D line
so that there is access from the Southwest to Denver Union Station, that dropping the C line resulted in
either a one- or two-transfer trip from Mineral Station.
So I know that I'm asking a lot of staff, and I don't know if Mr. Carter would respond. I don't think that I would
ask for any consideration in this service change. But maybe if we could look at some possibilities for the
future. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Sure, I think, if I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Carter, yes.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, I think what I'm hearing is that on the C and D line, there was the request for
consideration of mixing the C with its designation to DUS and the D line with its designation to the Downtown
Loop. And this is one of those things that is, we took at heart because of the fact that both of them had very
high ridership prior to the pandemic. And they were so very, very close. But the E line won out as the route
to go to the DUS from the Southeast and Southwest corridors. But we will take that into future consideration.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Carter. Yes, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That's all I'm asking is for consideration, because it is clumsy. And I
experienced that too. And I understand from our AGM of Rail Operations, that with the Downtown
reconstruction, that there will be service to Denver Union Station. So we might kind of gauge what the
reaction is to that during that period.

JESSIE CARTER: Exactly, so with that, you're gaining it anyway. You get both the C and the D. Depends
on the year and the time of year.
PEGGY CATLIN: Then it could go away.
JESSIE CARTER: Right.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I would just appreciate that very much.
JESSIE CARTER: Understood.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: We'll take a look at that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Jessie.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Thank you, Mr. Carter. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Director Catlin is wise. She said exactly what I was going to say.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent, any other comments? Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I will be a No tonight for the same reason why I've been a no on the
service changes for the last year. And I'm explaining for our new colleagues, just because I made a
commitment to some stakeholders in my district, including some elected officials, that I would be a No vote
until we had updated our service planning standards and some of our communication methods.
But the service planning standards was a concern for some local governments. And so tonight, I'm going
to be a No. Jessie Carter, you are still my favorite staff person. Doug MacLeod, close second. Please don't
leave us. And I'm hopeful that this is the last time that I do this. And I just wanted to say on the record the
why and the background. It has nothing to do with staff's work. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Director Ruscha. Oh, yeah. OK, perfect. Director
Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just really quickly, thank you. Public outreach is important. And getting feedback and
information from constituents is important. So to that end, the RTD-denver.com website, you can do a quick
search for service changes or service alerts, and it will take you to the appropriate pages to send more
information.
And each of these routes and each of these additional changes had their own tile that a rider could click on
when they are familiar with the routes. I said this at the meeting before. I'm repeating it here because I think
it's that important. It is also available in a number of languages.
I believe there are seven available now besides English, which is amazing. And so that information is sent
directly into our service planning community and provides the best way of getting direct feedback to the
planners and to the staff from the public to help them manage these changes three times a year when we
do it. Thanks.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Guzman. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I live in downtown. In fact, I live right at basically 18th and 17th and
Stout. So when this change takes place, one of the things that was noted last year was basically, the way
that the lines were reported in the data feeds that we would put out about them, they ended up looking kind
of funky because they weren't traditional D line trains, they weren't traditional, and because they were
rerouted to Union Station.
And so I'm wondering, and maybe this is a question for Mr. Carter, what are those going to look like in our
app? What are they going to look like in the Transit app in Google maps? What data are we putting into our
GTFS feed to effectively and correctly tell people where these trains are going and what is the name of
them going to be, both on the trains themselves and in the data we're providing? Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Carter, GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, first and foremost, Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. So thank you for
the question. There's a couple of elements that we need to assess as we go forward, recognizing that we
had lessons learned going back to the previous presentation I just gave under the General Manager's
report.
We previously had some antiquated technology. And as we go forward, we're going to try and ensure
leveraging our customer initiative of customer and community engagement, that we are going forward with
intention and purpose. In interest of full disclosure, I have a meeting with staff tomorrow morning with multi
modal entity leads where we're having conversations. But as I indicated before, when we get to that point
in time, will we be apprising this body. And so I think at this juncture, I'd be better suited not to address that
question specifically, because there's a couple of elements we need to assess.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK. Can I just ask, will you come back to us next month or before this goes into
effect and have an answer for-- if these trains are going to a different location, should they have the same
name, should they have the different name, how will they look on the map, because this was confusing to
people last year.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. That was my point, sir. We call that interlining. And we will deduce as we
go forward what would be appropriate. And yes, I will be highly communicative with this body as I've
committed to. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Any further questions or discussions on this? OK, I'm going
to do a roll call vote. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek. Still absent. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Respectfully, No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I am also Yes. It will pass 13, 1, and 1. 13 Yes, one No, and one absent, OK. OK,
perfect. So we are moving on to our fourth and final action.
And this is for the records request fee waiver for members of the media, for the Board of Directors to adopt
detached resolution providing CORA and CCJRA request fee waivers for certain verified members of the
media. Do we have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Got Nicholson as a mover.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I got Chandler as a second. OK, I understand we will have an amendment offered to
effectively replace the resolution that was printed in the packet, that was developed by Directors Nicholson
and Directors Ruscha over the past few days. Is that correct?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That is correct, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
KAREN BENKER: [INAUDIBLE] is one that came out at 5:00.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, so it looks like we're getting the paperwork on that.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

JOYANN RUSCHA: Is this version 5 or version-CHRIS NICHOLSON: This is version 6. Do you mind if I-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I think we need a mover and a second on this new version.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I move the amendment that has been distributed by our Executive Manager. And
second's on the desk. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, then we have O'Keefe as the second.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yep.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, may I?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, so Director Nicholson or Director Ruscha, would you kind of walk us through
the changes you're proposing?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I'll pull up-- so there are two pieces of paper, two packets on your desk.
The first reflects changes that were made by myself and Director Ruscha over the weekend to streamline
and clean up language, clarifying the eligibility by including students and independent journalists, sharing
our records retention policy publicly, giving individuals and organizations the same $300 in waivers, and
using the statutory definitions for mass media and news [INAUDIBLE], as well as rolling out the funding
quarterly, rather than all at once, to make sure that over the course of a year, there's still funds available in
September, October, November, December, in case there's a lot of requests early in the year.

The second update, which was put together this morning and early afternoon, came from concerns from
General Counsel Snyder and concerns from Director Chandler, sorry. One of those things, it's late at night.
And all this does is remove some language around record keeping that was added in version 5, so just
reverting back to what was in the version that we passed on Thursday, and then placing into the resolution
the language around what the press yield statute refers to for newsperson and mass media, and modifying
them slightly to make it clear that for mass media, includes digital journalism, and for newsperson, it includes
any individual doing journalism, even if they're not paid, because the current statute requires them to be
paid.
So basically, the first set of changes, as I said, it does not change the intent of the resolution, it does not
change the scope. It simply clarifies the language to use what's in the Colorado Revised Statute, and not
just what was sort of written up.
And then the second bit just sort of reverts two pieces of what was in the changes that we proposed. So
before we get to the discussion of the overall package and the merits thereof, I just ask for a Yes vote to
move to this most recent version. And then we can move forward from there. And so I move the amendment.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second Ruscha.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, what discussion do we have further on this amendment? Any questions about it?
Yeah, Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the fact that they did clarification under 3A
and 3B. I really do appreciate that. I am going to be a Yes vote on this because that does take into
consideration many that are working in not traditional media. And so I appreciate that those additional
clarification. So I will be a Yes vote.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it's kind of a process issue. But when we've talked about at various times in
the past, I have three things here that have all the same topic. So if I mix them up, I'm not sure what I'm
voting on. We got one of them early this morning, I think around 9:30. And we got one of them around 5:00
before we ever came in here.
We also got some information from our General Counsel that I don't think anybody's had a chance to read.
So I'm concerned about moving forward with proposals coming in so late. I can make a motion. And my
motion would be to postpone till next month and know what we're voting on.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so there's a motion to postpone.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll second that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so we have a motion to postpone till-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry, point of information.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Given that we're voting on the amendment right now, if I'm wrong, you can't postpone
the amendment vote. You can postpone the main motion. And I'll address your concerns, I promise, as
soon as we're finished moving the amendment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So it would be-- OK, so we're going to finish up. You can-JACK KROLL: Per Robert's Rules, you can postpone at any time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
JACK KROLL: The way I would recommend doing this, if you moved forward with a postponement, is we
could, upon this returning to the Executive Committee next month, immediately take the motion to amend.
And we would be able to print in the packet both the current version and what's being proposed as being
changed, if you all were to adopt a motion to postpone to next month's meeting cycle.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so a motion to postpone, second by Director Guzman. Any discussion on that?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So just to be clear, and you beat me to the punch, quite honestly. I wanted to get the
amendment done and then move to postpone rather than not take the changes that have been worked on
very distinctly by Director Ruscha from Director Chandler.
I'd like to take those into account on the item, and then kick it back to Executive Committee. I think that
would be the respectful thing to do of the hard work that they've put in, and then move forward, which is
what I was going to suggest from the first place. So Executive will still have the ability to review all of this
stuff, but I want to honor the work that they've put in before we kick it back to them.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Does that require a Yes vote on the amendment? Because that's the concern I
have is voting Yes on something that I haven't had a chance to read and some of the other information that
came out at the same time. I'm fine with you bringing this forward to the Executive Committee and next
round. Maybe it's a question for Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, like I said, you can postpone it now and then take the amendment at the Executive
Committee when everyone's had time to process it. The directors who made the motion to postpone could
withdraw their motion and their second, except you could finish the conversation on the amendment, and
then, at that point, subsequently move to postpone again. But it sounds like Director Guissinger concerns
is the very fact of voting on the amendment at this point in time.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. One last question, and then I think we should take the vote. Voting to postpone,
does that kick it back to Executive Committee? Or does that just kick it to the next-- it's not clear to me what
voting to postpone would formally mean.

I'm OK to vote to-- there's a weird motion that says basically kick it back to the committee. So I'm OK with
that. I'm not sure I'm comfortable with just a vote to postpone, because that doesn't necessarily mean it's
going to get brought up anywhere before.
JACK KROLL: I think the issue here would be to just ensure that the-- to clarify the motion from Director
Guissinger and Director Guzman, that Director Guzman seconded, that you would like this to be postponed
to next month's Executive Committee meeting, where it would be considered, and then brought back to the
full Board for a vote.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I'm fine with that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman, is that fine? Yeah, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Since this is a debatable motion, this passed out of Executive
Committee 4 to 1. The amendments that were made were in response to concerns from directors, staff,
and comments made in Executive. Staff gave their feedback the day before Executive.
And so I feel like this is just-- we're going to have the same result, respectfully. And I think we would be
happy to answer any questions you have. But that's why it is the way it is. We-- honestly, not we, because
I was not a Yes at the time. But generally speaking-JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, I'm just going to stop.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, thank you, Director Ruscha. Yeah, Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: So Mr. Kroll, it seems to me the proper motion would be to refer this back to the
Executive Committee and not get crosswise on postponing what, or whatever. And I think that's a proper
subsidiary or one of those type of crazy motions, as Secretary mentioned. Is that correct, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, that would be an acceptable route to go with this as well. So do you want to-- DirectorsJULIEN BOUQUET: Guissinger and Guzman.
JACK KROLL: Guissinger and Guzman, withdraw your motion and then restate the motion as a referral to
the Executive Committee?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I will withdraw my second so that Director Guissinger may make the motion.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: And I will withdraw my motion and make a motion to refer this proposal back to
the Executive Committee.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. I got Guissinger and Guzman as a second. Just to clarify, again, before I
take the vote on referring this back to the Executive Committee-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Hey.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Do you mind if I speak before on my item, before you close the vote?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I do. I'm going to finish this statement right here.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry about that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, absolutely. Again, going back to the argument that was being made with the
Board Operating Guidelines, this is a different timeline. These are amendments. This is language that was
just given to us.
And the most updated literally is just in front of us right now. I think it's more than a fair ask. It doesn't kill
the recommended action at all. It's just, we're processing it back into the Executive Committee, because
this isn't exactly what was passed through the Executive Committee. So those are my words. Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, thank you. So this is obviously remarkably complicated. And to be
[INAUDIBLE], a lot of the back and forth on this is motivated by trying to build consensus so that we can
get something done. I started this two months ago, right after I took office, and have been working diligently
with staff, with members of the committees, with directors to try and solicit as much feedback as I can.
And we've made significant changes. There's a reason we're on version 6 of this right now. It's that I
genuinely want this to pass in some form, because I think the underlying work that it is doing is important.
So I am more than happy to continue to listen and continue to make changes.
I came into tonight thinking I've got eight votes to do it. I think there's a good chance, if we put it to a vote
right now, that it would pass. But that doesn't mean that's the right thing to do. And especially for this, I want
additional input. And I am happy to listen to every single one of you about what changes you want to see,
about what your concerns are.
And so my only ask would be, if you're voting to postpone this now, tell me what you think of it before it
comes back, because I need to be able to understand where you're coming from and factor that in, and try
to earn your support for this. So I'm happy to move this. I'm happy to wait.
This is not something that needs to happen tomorrow. This is something that can happen next month. But
if we're going to kick it, let's use that time to actually factor in what people are thinking and give me the
chance to get you to a Yes, because I believe this is good policy, it will help us as an organization, and that
is the most that I'm going to say about it, because we all want to get home.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect, thank you, Secretary Nicholson. Agree, and I appreciate you trying to build
consensus with this. And so excellent. Any other comments in regards to Director Ruscha, Director Catlin?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I will be in support of kicking this back to Executive. However, I must
state that at this juncture, speaking of respecting time, I spent an extraordinary amount of time helping
Secretary Nicholson as a new director. And we were not on the same page. And there was compromise.
Every person in this room has touched this product in one way or another. But I had a similar but different
proposal. Director Nicholson beat me to the punch. Sometimes that's the way it goes. I was willing to accept
compromise, but seeing that Director Nicholson is not comfortable moving forward, I just need to-- and this
is not an attack on him.

Excuse me, sorry, Secretary Nicholson. I need to be honest, I'm not sure if I'll be a Yes if this is where we're
going, because I worked in good faith, thinking that we had more consensus and that staff needed more
amendments. And that's why I gave my time. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate all the work that's gone into this. But I think it's a process situation.
And I don't think we want to see an amendment that's brought forth during this meeting, or right before the
meeting.
I think what we would like to see before the next meeting, before we approve this, is a complete package,
and that we don't see amendments brought forth at the last minute that, based on all the feedback, that we
hopefully will give you, that you will have a solid proposal in front of us without last minute amendments.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you Director Catlin. Any further discussion before I call the vote to refer this
back to Executive-- executive, OK? I'm going to call a roll call vote on this. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek. He's gone. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a Yes, so this will pass 14, 0, and 1, one being absent. All right, so this will come
back to the Executive Committee. And looking forward to the work we can get there and to build a
consensus.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I need to be excused. May I be excused to leave the meeting?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Absolutely, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, everyone.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. We'll see you next month. And we got four minutes before we hit four-hour
deadline. So I'm going to try to make this as quickly as possible. Any report on Director activities? All right,
seeing none.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: [INAUDIBLE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, moving on. And we do have to get to this. And that is the review of the
[INAUDIBLE]. And this is the review of the 2025 committee approved work plans. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. This
is really just designed as part of your bylaw to give every member of the Board the opportunity to comment
on the work plans for all of the committees, as not all directors serve on all the committees.
So each committee has approved its work plan for the year, taking their work through February of next year.
And so if there are any comments or suggestions from Board members on those work plans, now's the time
to offer those for the Chair and Vice Chair and pertinent staff for those committees to consider.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Any questions or comments for Mr. Kroll? Going once,
going twice. Excellent, thank you, sir, for your work. Last but not least, other matters. OK, seeing none. I
appreciate you all for your patience. Do we have a motion to adjourn?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I got Guzman as the mover. We are adjourned as 9:28. Have a good night, everybody.
[BANGS GAVEL]

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, March 25th, 2025
March 25th, 2025
Julian Bouquet, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Bouquet,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit public comment on the following topics:
Service Planning Standards and Service Performance Reporting
GDT welcomes this proposal to improve the performance reporting related to the current service standards.
Longer term, GDT hopes that the 2016 service standards document will be updated in such a way to facilitate
the planning of a true transit network that includes a detailed focus on transfers instead of the line-by-line
approach taken today.
Records Request Fee Waivers for Members of the Media
GDT is in support of this resolution, which would provide the first $300 in CORA fees to be waived per year to
credentialed members of the media with an overall limit of $600 per media outlet. Making it easier to allow the
press access to RTDs discoverable records is a key part of facilitating media coverage on the agency that is
well informed and in the public interest.
Denver NWSL Stadium Announcement
GDT is excited to see the initial plans for a womens soccer stadium at Santa Fe Yards and is particularly
impressed that parking appears to have been minimized on a site that is close to I-25 & Broadway Station. A
bold aim to have a high percentage of stadium goers travel to / from the site by public transit is exactly the sort
of decisive action we need to see if Denver is ever to meet its sustainability, congestion and climate change
goals. That said, GDT urges RTD to focus on a key piece of infrastructure that will be required for such a bold
plan to work, namely the pedestrian bridge connection from I-25 & Broadway Station, that will take soccer fans
over the light rail and consolidated mainline freight tracks to the stadium site. While we are not explicitly calling
for RTD to fund the bridge, we urge the agency to be a willing and pro-active partner and resource, along with
CDOT and the city, in getting the bridge built in time for the first game at the stadium in 2028.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

Emma Griffin

Joe Meyer

CC:

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page2

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Sam Spare
RTD Board Office
Re: An anecdote on decreased ridership
Tuesday, March 4, 2025 8:52:45 PM

Hello again,
I'm writing this as I wait for an Uber because the E line train never showed at Union station
and there were no updates available about if or when it would. The app thinks it left Union
station two minutes late, but I know that's not true because I was there. Apparently it has a
mind of its own. If trains that run on schedule are infeasible for whatever reason, it seems the
least RTD could do is provide reliable information.
I overheard another frustrated would-be-passenger asking two RTD employees hanging out on
a bench what the deal was. They said it was a management issue and out of their control, and
the best thing to do is contact the board. Sound advice, assuming that someone actually reads
these, which isn't clear to me since my last message did not even get a canned response.
Hope you all can turn things around.
Best,
Sam
On Wed, Jan 22, 2025, 11:38 PM Sam Spare <samspare24@gmail.com> wrote:
Hello,
I see headlines about the challenges of increasing ridership to pre-pandemic levels and
thought I'd share my own personal experience.
I was a regular RTD user for about a decade. While at University of Denver, I'd take the
train downtown for events. I commuted on the H line to my first job out of college. I bought
a house near the Louisiana/Pearl station, in part, so that I could take the E line to my current
job near Union Station.
I stopped commuting on the E line in summer 2022 because I got tired of starting and ending
my day smelling burning fentanyl or worrying about the person pacing around with an xacto
knife. Then came the only one or two train per hour schedules, which were inconvenient
enough for my schedule that I stuck to car commuting.
Hearing that the E line was returning to a 15 minute schedule this week, I decided to give it
another go. While open drug use and general sketchiness seem to have decreased, I have yet
to encounter a single on schedule train and I've had trains cancelled on two occasions.
Consistently wondering when or if a train is going to show is a poor experience and I will be
returning to my car for the foreseeable future.
I appreciate your efforts and hope that I'll find myself being a regular user again in the near
future.
Best,
Sam

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

DevenX
RTD Board Office
Request to Address Board Over Training Failures
Wednesday, March 5, 2025 6:05:21 PM

Hello RTD Board of Directors,
I have had numerous (literally too many to count or report) encounters with rude staff, and a
consistent trend in Boulder since I've been here over the last year.
I have repeatedly been singled out for my service dog, seen drivers be rude to other people, and
had drivers express terrible attitudes to me.
I believe this indicates a long term and consistent failure of trainers, and I want to reach the Board
member for my area over repeated experiences. Her name is Lynn Guissinger.
Thank you,
Kevin Brewton aka
Deven X
720-539-2836
Sent with Proton Mail secure email.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Cody Bates
RTD Board Office
RTD updates
Thursday, March 13, 2025 12:04:31 PM

Please, on behalf of the city of Denver, please resign. All of you. Just....resign. You are a joke.
Every one of you.

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Hilliard, Landon <lhilliard@bouldercounty.gov>
Tuesday, March 11, 2025 12:36 PM
RTD Board Office
Letter of commendation

Follow Up Flag:
Flag Status:

Follow up
Completed

Hello Board Sta,
An advisory group in the Town of Nederland for the EcoPass program would like to acknowledge the fine work
of RTD sta in its support of public transit. Is there guidance about the sending an ocial le er of
commenda on to the Board and CEO that you can point out to me? Ive looked on your website but didnt see
instruc ons for this in any obvious place.
Thanks in advance for poin ng me in the right direc on.
Respec ully,
Landon
Landon Hilliard, AICP

Senior Transportation Planner
Transportation Planning Division
Community Planning & Permitting Dept.
720-564-2294 (office)
lhilliard@bouldercounty.gov
bouldercounty.gov

1

