Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 26, 2016 at 2:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - May 31, 2016
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Debi Drewes – Legal Assistant – 17 years
Robin K. Elliott – Supervisor of Contracts and Budget – 32 years
Casandra Santos – Sales Supervisor – 28 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Francone
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson

Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Lasater
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Chair Tobiassen
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Chair Tobiassen
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 19, 2016

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Nominating
Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation
District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint one member of the
Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint five new members to the
Committee to a three-year term.
B.
Contract Amendment for the Westminster Park and Ride Pedestrian Bridge
Painting & Rehabilitation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a
construction contract amendment with TMI Coatings, Inc. in the amount of
$390,595.81. This Contract Amendment to the Westminster Park-N-Ride (PnR)
Pedestrian Bridge Painting & Rehabilitation Project (Contract No. 16DP001) is for
the restoration of the adjoining access ramps to the pedestrian bridge over US36 at
the RTD US36 Sheridan Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Station. With this amendment,
the total contract value would be $839,283.74
C.

Pass Program Working Group

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts the Pass Program Working Group objective,
commitments and guiding principles.
D.

2015 CAFR and Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial

reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2015 as prepared by staff and
audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
E.

Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______ amending the
Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee
Defined Contribution Plan to provide for appointment of the same four employee
trustees for each of the plans, with two trustees being employee participants in the
Pension Plan, and two being employee participants in the Defined Contribution Plan.
The resolution further provides that the three existing employee trustees serving
both plans remain as trustees with revised termination dates to assure continued
staggered terms, and that a fourth employee be appointed to replace retired trustee
Marla Lien.
F.
Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Motorola Solutions for Purchase
of Radios (56DH012)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a
$940,000 sole source contract with Motorola Solutions(Motorola) for purchase of
mobile, portable and tower radios and associated equipment (Contract Number
56DH012). This contract will include an option for a 3-year extended warranty.
G.

2016 Title VI Program Update

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the 2016 Title VI Program Update to comply with federal
laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
XII.

Recommended Action
H.

State Legislative Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an
agreement for state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public
Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2016 through June 29,
2017) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-00, at a cost of $122,000, pursuant to the
Contract Award agreement.
I.
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A
It is recommended by the Finance Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue
Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2016A.

J.
Resolution No. ___, Resolution expressing the intent of the Board to be
reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the financing of buses
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed from a future financing for
certain expenses relating to the acquisition of buses.
K.

August 2016 Service Change Final

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the August 2016 Service Change package as revised
and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately
$549,600 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 3, 2016

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 3, 2016

Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

Subject:

RTD
Citizens
Appointments

Advisory

Committee

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Nominating Committee for the RTD
Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of
Directors reappoint one member of the Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint five new
members to the Committee to a three-year term.
BACKGROUND
On April 22, 2004, the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 5, Series of 2004, directing, in
part, staff to create a FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC). On Dec.13, 2005, the RTD Board
of Directors approved the structure of the CAC including its mission and function, the duties and roles of
its members, the selection process for members, and organizational and meeting procedures for the
committee. On Dec. 16, 2008, the RTD Board of Directors increased the number of members of the
CAC from eleven to seventeen.
Since its creation in 2005, the mission of the CAC has been to review the progress of the FasTracks
Program in relation to established schedules, budget allocations, DBE goals and quality management
guidelines; to provide region-oriented advice to the Board of Directors on issues related to the
implementation of the FasTracks program; to review and provide comment on the DRCOG SB208
Annual Report; and to promote public awareness and understanding of the voter-approved FasTracks
program and its implementation. Six current members’ terms expired on December 31, 2015.
As the District completes more elements of the FasTracks Program, opens five new projects in 2016,
and works to integrate new rail service into existing operations, the issues that input from the CAC
would be relevant and meaningful to the District are increasingly agency-wide. Therefore, on February
16, 2016, based on the CAC’s individual meetings with board members conducted earlier this year,
input from staff and extensive discussion by the committee, the RTD Board of Directors RTD Board of
Directors change the name of the RTD FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee to the RTD Citizens
Advisory Committee and revise the structure accordingly.
On February 18, 2016, recruitment for citizens interested in serving was publicly advertised through the
RTD and FasTracks Web sites, media releases, local publications and stakeholder e-mail distributions.
Applicants were asked to submit a one-page letter stating their interest in serving on the CAC along with
specific qualifications, highlights of related experience and expertise and a resume if available. A total of
45 applications were received by the March 31, 2016 deadline. Two current members were eligible for
reappointment and one expressed an interest in continuing to serve on the Committee.
The Nominating Committee decided, based on attendance, participation at meetings and Committee
consistency to recommend reappointment of the current member who requested reappointment. The
Nominating Committee then carefully reviewed each application using criteria outlined in the adopted
Committee Structure, including:

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.A

Demonstrated interest in transit or other public policy advocacy.
Membership in business, civic, and environmental organizations.
Member of senior, low-income, minority, and/or disabled populations.
Experience in working with local jurisdictions on regional issues.
Previous community service.
Professional expertise and qualifications.
Following review of the application materials, the Nominating Committee interviewed nine finalists.
The following current member is recommended for reappointment to an additional three-year term
expiring May 31, 2019:
Ken Claussen works for the University of Colorado Cancer Center in the IT department. He is the current
vice chair of the City and County of Broomfield’s Local Licensing Authority, which is primarily
responsible for issuing liquor licenses and enforcing of liquor license code. He is a former vice chair of
the City of Westminster Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, serving 4 years on that board. He
volunteers his time at a number of organizations in the north metro area. Mr. Claussen holds a Bachelor
of Science degree from Western Illinois University, a Bachelors of Computer Science degree from
Metropolitan State College of Denver and an MBA from Oklahoma City University. He uses the RTD
system daily to commute to the University of Colorado at Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora, and is a
resident of Broomfield, RTD District I.
The following applicants are recommended for appointment to three-year terms expiring on May 31,
2019:
Gabriella Arismendi is a Transportation Planner for Stolfus and Associates in the Denver Tech Center.
She leads statewide efforts pertaining to multi-modal transportation planning and transportation systems
management and operations. Prior to Stolfus, she worked for over seven years in the public sector for a
municipality and the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) in Orlando, Fl. She coordinated efforts
between the state DOT, the transit authority, and the MPO on sustainable transit planning practices and
addressed last-mile connectivity throughout the Central Florida region. She commutes to work via light
rail and rides the bus to run errands on the weekends. Ms. Arismendi holds a Master’s Degree in Public
Administration from Florida International University and a Graduate Certificate in Urban and Regional
Planning from the University of Central Florida. She resides with her husband in Littleton, RTD District H.
Joseph Lamers is retired from the Metropolitan State University of Denver (MSUD), where he worked in
a variety of Information Technology positions. Since retiring he has made transportation, particularly for
special populations, his focus. Joe is an active member of the Jefferson County LCC and the RTD
Accessibility Design Panel. He uses the RTD system on a daily basis including fixed bus and rail routes
and Access-A-Ride. Joe has a Bachelor of Arts in Management from the University of Denver, a
Certificate in Non-Profit Administration and a BS in Computer Management Systems from MSUD. He
served on the Comprehensive Planning Advisory Committee, charged with writing the 2025
Comprehensive Plan, for the City of Lakewood and graduated from the Transit Alliance Citizens
Academy in 2015. Joe and his wife live in Lakewood, RTD District M.
Ryan McCaw works for local non-profit affordable housing and human services provider Metro West
Housing Solutions, owner of more than 1,200 apartments and 100,000+ square feet of commercial
space in Lakewood and Denver. He has a diverse background in real estate development, sustainable
design, real estate finance, and urban planning and has worked in the private, non-profit, and public

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.A

sectors. His roles include new real estate development planning and financing, funding acquisition and
grant writing, and integrating sustainability into new and existing real estate investments and agency
operations. He is a LEED AP O+M and received a Bachelor of Environmental Design from the University
of Colorado and a Master of City of Planning and real estate certificate from the University of
Pennsylvania. Ryan serves on multiple community-oriented boards and committees and actively
volunteers with his graduate school alumni club. Ryan is a Denver native and lives in RTD District D.
Joanna Morsicato is currently a manager for Environment and Planning at Michael Baker International
with a focus on transportation. She has many years of transportation planning and public involvement
experience for roadway and transit projects, working with diverse audiences and community interests.
Recent projects have included the Honolulu Rail Transit Project and the RTD SE and SW Corridor Light
Rail Extensions. She is a life-long transit user and supporter of multi-modal transportation
opportunities. Ms. Morsicato has a BA in Anthropology from the University of Chicago and an MA in
Geography with an Urban Planning emphasis from the University of Colorado, Denver. She has been a
Colorado resident for over 40 years and is a long time resident of unincorporated Jefferson County
within RTD District N.
Pastor Del Phillips currently serves as president of the Greater Metro Denver Ministerial Alliance and
founder and convener of the Colorado Black Leadership Caucus, a collaboration of key community
leaders within the African American Community. He has served as senior Pastor of The House Worship
Center for more than twenty years and as a clergyman for more than 35 years. He attended Howard
University in Washington D.C. and has honorary degrees in the field of Theology. He was recently
appointed by Mayor Hancock to the Colorado Crime Commission, serves on the boards of Urban League
Denver, One Chance Colorado, and a host of advisory positions for civic and community organizations.
Pastor Phillips is a lifelong Denver resident and resides in RTD District A.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
and Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint one member of the
Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint five new members to the Committee for
three-year terms.
2. Modify the recommended appointments to the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee. This is not
recommended as the appointments have been carefully considered and meet the parameters of
the Committee Structure adopted by the RTD Board of Directors.
3. Do not adopt the Recommended Action. This is not recommended as this alternative would delay
the appointment new members to the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee following an extensive
recruitment and review process
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact.

Prepared by:
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.A

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 5, 2016

From:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

May 5, 2016

Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

Subject:

Contract Amendment for the Westminster Park
and Ride Pedestrian Bridge Painting &
Rehabilitation

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a construction contract amendment with TMI Coatings,
Inc. in the amount of $390,595.81. This Contract Amendment to the Westminster Park-N-Ride (PnR)
Pedestrian Bridge Painting & Rehabilitation Project (Contract No. 16DP001) is for the restoration of the
adjoining access ramps to the pedestrian bridge over US36 at the RTD US36 Sheridan Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) Station. With this amendment, the total contract value would be $839,283.74
BACKGROUND
The Westminster Center (US36 & Sheridan Bus Rapid Transit Station) Pedestrian Bridge over US36 was
constructed in 1995. It is a steel truss bridge structure with a concrete deck and enclosed pedestrian
walkway. Circular steel and concrete pedestrian access ramps on both ends of the bridge were
constructed at the same time. The bridge and ramps were originally painted federal green. In 2001, the
Westminster Center Park n Ride parking garage structure was constructed on the Boulder-bound side of
US36. A steel and concrete deck ramp extension was placed between the garage and the north access
ramp. Some maintenance has been performed on the bridge and ramps. A 2014 inspection revealed
areas of rust and concrete damage that require rehabilitation. The federal green paint has, over time,
flaked and salts including magnesium chloride have eaten away various areas of the coating; the
exposed steel is rusting. See Figures 1 and 2 (below) for project location.
DISCUSSION
A Request For Proposals (RFP) and construction plans and specifications were issued in February 2016
in order to solicit quality proposals from reputable contractors who were qualified and properly certified
in the rehabilitation of pedestrian bridges and ramps. Because of funding concerns, the pedestrian
bridge was designated as a base bid and the ramps were designated as an “add alternate.”
The responding contractors provided experience and qualification evidence for: (a) Site investigations
and materials testing; (b) Restoration and construction options; (c) Preparing structural steel member
surfaces (i.e., clean and remove rust); (d) Paint complex steel structural members above a highway; (e)
Prepare and repair reinforced concrete deck; (f) Prepare and repair reinforced concrete structural
supports; (g) Remove and replace broken downspouts and gutters; (h) Apply concrete deck coating; (i)
Recent experience on similar projects with government agencies (j) Provide safe and efficient highway
traffic control, vehicular and pedestrian detours; (k) Ensure public safety, structural integrity and
continued reliability of existing infrastructure; (l) Schedule and manage regular construction meetings;
(m) Administer contracts, construction management, invoices, inspection reports and other construction
related services; (n) Assist RTD staff with site inspections; (o) Coordinate proposed work with local,
state and federal agencies including obtaining work permits.

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.B

The evaluation criteria included technical merits, experience, personnel and cost, weighted as follows:
 40%: knowledge, certification and technical experience, Quality Assurance/Quality Control,
structural concrete repair, highway and pedestrian traffic control, and safety.
 20%: experience and project understanding, recent similar work, coordination with government,
coordination with subcontractors and strength of organizational chart.
 40%: cost.
Proposals were accepted March 25, 2016 from three prime contractors:
(1) Gonzales Custom Painting, Inc.;
(2) TMI Coatings, Inc.;
(3) RMA Group, Inc.
A technical evaluation committee of five RTD staff members independently reviewed and rated each
proposal. A final evaluation and recommendation meeting occurred April 6, 2016. TMI Coatings, Inc.
was recommended as the most technically qualified, and had a mid-range cost that is within the project
budget.
Because of the best value determination, an award of $448,687.93 was made for the base bid. The
contract duration is 180 calendar days.
The base bid contract award will restore the bridge as follows: (1) prepare and paint steel members dark
grey, as accepted by RTD and the City of Westminster; (2) replace clear Lexan side panels; (3) remove
chain link fence; (4) patch and coat concrete decks with a skid resistant material.
This contract amendment will restore the adjoining ramps as follows; (1) repair the concrete support
columns under the Denver-bound side of US36; (2) replace the rain gutters and downspouts; (3) replace
the green vinyl clad chain link fence with grey galvanized chain link fence; (4) treat and coat the stay-inplace metal formwork of the ramp decks located over walkways; (5) patch and coat the concrete decks
with a skid resistant material.
The add alternate for this contract amendment was included in the contractor’s base bid, and will not
increase the contract duration.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This contract amendment will utilize currently budgeted US36 BRT Local Expense funds.
PROJECT SBE GOAL
A 6% SBE goal was established by RTD. The contractor exceeded this goal for the overall project base
bid and add alternate. The base bid and add alternate amount of $839,283.74, which includes
$57,533.00 SBE work for traffic control, glazing and fencing, provides a 6.86% SBE participation.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a construction contract amendment with TMI
Coatings, Inc. in the amount of $390,595.81. This Contract Amendment to the Westminster PnR
Pedestrian Bridge Painting & Rehabilitation Project (Contract No. 16DP001) is for the restoration
of the adjoining access ramps to the pedestrian bridge over US36 at the RTD US36 Sheridan BRT
Station. With this amendment, the total contract value would be $839,283.74.

Packet Pg. 10

2.11.B

2.

3.

Delay implementing the Recommended Action: Instead, reissue a new set of plans and
specifications and issue a separate Invitation for Bid for the access ramps. This is not
recommended because:
a. It delays the access ramp restoration that is needed for repair and aesthetic appearance.
b. The current accepted contractor, TMI Coatings, Inc., will perform a complete “turn-key”
project, which is determined to be the most qualified with a fair and reasonable price.
c. The Engineering Division and the Procurement Office do not believe that a separate bidding
process will give better results. A better quality of the work is anticipated with this approach.
d. The funds are currently available.
Do not award: This is not recommended because the deteriorated condition of the pedestrian
ramps, downspouts, gutters and concrete are approaching a safety concern.

ATTACHMENTS:


Figure 1 and 2

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Cory Granrud, Manager, Park-n-Ride Design
Stan Szabelak, Manager, Civil Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Figure 1 and 2 (2784 : Westminster Ped Bridge Rehab)

2.11.B.a

Figure 1

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Figure 1 and 2 (2784 : Westminster Ped Bridge Rehab)

2.11.B.a

Figure 2

Packet Pg. 13

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 5, 2016

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

May 4, 2016

Subject:

Pass Program Working Group

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors approves
and adopts the Pass Program Working Group objective, commitments and guiding principles.
BACKGROUND
In September of 2015, the Board of Directors approved a fare level increase to the Business and
Neighborhood Eco Pass programs and directed to staff to establish a Pass Program Working Group. The
Board Action approved in September of 2015 specifically stated: “This working group will include RTD
staff as well as stakeholders from across the District. The working group will define goals for pass
programs as well as reevaluate the 2009 Board policy for utilization based pricing to incorporate the new
fare structure and average fare analysis once smart card tap data is available.”
Staff prepared a draft of an objective, commitments and guiding principles to set the course of the Pass
Program Working Group. At the February 2016 Planning and Development Board Committee meeting,
staff presented and received input from the Board on that draft. Input received from individual Board
Directors confirmed that the draft objective, commitments and guiding principles did reflect their
priorities and concerns regarding Pass Programs.
DISCUSSION
It is important that Staff receive Board approval of the objective, commitments and guiding principles of
the Pass Program Working Group prior to the establishment of the group. These directional elements will
lead the efforts of Staff and the working group. The recommended objective, commitments and guiding
principles are detailed below.
Objective: Improve RTD pass programs to better serve customers of the district.
To achieve this objective, the Pass Program Working Group will fulfill the following commitments:
1. Revisit and refine goals for each individual pass program.
2. Refine pricing and administration of each pass program.
3. Recommend pass program policy revisions to the Board of Directors.
Below is a list of the Guiding Principles for the Pass Program Study:
1. Cost Effective Administration
2. Equitable Access
3. Improve Customer Convenience
4. Increase Ridership
5. Meet Strategic Budget Plan Revenue Targets
6. Promote Greater Brand Loyalty
7. Provide RTD revenue certainty
8. Simplify Passenger-Operator Interaction

Packet Pg. 14

2.11.C

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The adoption of the Pass Program Working Group objective, commitments and guiding principles doesn’t
result in any direct or foreseeable financial impacts.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action by the Planning and Development Committee. It is
recommended that the Board of Directors approve and adopt the Pass Program Working Group
objective, commitments and guiding principles.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action.Reject the adoption of the Pass Program Working Group
objective, commitments and guiding principles and do not proceed with the Pass Program
Working Group.
ATTACHMENTS:


Pass Program Working Group P&D Committee (05102016)

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Mike Washington, Title VI Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Pass Program Working Group P&D Committee (05102016) (2778 : Pass Program Working

2.11.C.a

Pass Program Working Group
Planning and Development Committee
May 10, 2016

Packet Pg. 16

Fare Study Commitments
In September 2015 the Board approved final
fare changes to the EcoPass programs with
a commitment to:
• Convene an RTD and Stakeholder Pass
Program Working Group
– Define goals for pass programs
– Revisit pricing for pass programs

2
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Pass Program Working Group P&D Committee (05102016) (2778 : Pass Program Working

2.11.C.a

Pass Products Under Review
• Individual Pass Programs
– Day Pass
– Monthly Pass
– ValuPass (annual)

• Group Rate Passes
– Eco (Business, Neighborhood and
Community)
– Flex Pass
– College Pass
3
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Pass Program Working Group P&D Committee (05102016) (2778 : Pass Program Working

2.11.C.a

Pass Program Working Group
Objective: Improve RTD pass programs to
better serve customers of the district.

Commitments
1. Revisit and refine individual pass program
goals
2. Refine pricing and administration of each
pass program
3. Recommend Pass Program policy revisions
to the Board of Directors.
4
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Pass Program Working Group P&D Committee (05102016) (2778 : Pass Program Working

2.11.C.a

Guiding Principles
• Cost Effective Administration
• Equitable Access
• Improve Customer Convenience
• Increase Ridership
• Meet SBP Revenue Targets
• Promote Greater Brand Loyalty
• Provide RTD revenue certainty
• Simplify Passenger-Operator Interaction

5
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Pass Program Working Group P&D Committee (05102016) (2778 : Pass Program Working

2.11.C.a

Pass Program Working Group
(cont.)

6

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Pass Program Working Group P&D Committee (05102016) (2778 : Pass Program Working

2.11.C.a

Timeline and Next Steps
• May: Board approval of plan and objectives
• Summer: Working Group preparations
(interviews with Board of Directors, staff,
stakeholders, etc.)
• Fall: Initiate Stakeholder Meetings

7
Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Pass Program Working Group P&D Committee (05102016) (2778 : Pass Program Working

2.11.C.a

2.11.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

May 18, 2016

Subject:

2015 CAFR and Report to Governance

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 18, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2015 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
BACKGROUND
State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. RTD is also required
to provide annual audited financial statements to external entities and other government organizations to
be in full compliance with legal covenants, debt agreements, and other contractual documents. The
accounting firm of RubinBrown, LLP performed the 2015 audit. In addition to the requirements set forth
in state statutes, the audit also was designed to fulfill the requirements of the federal Single Audit Act of
1984 and related OMB circular A-133.
DISCUSSION
As stated in the auditor’s unmodified opinion, the financial statements in the enclosed Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report (CAFR) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of RTD as of
December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of its operations and its cash flow for the 2015 and
2014 fiscal years in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept and enter into the record RTD’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2015 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP. This is the recommended action, state statutes and other sources, such as rating agencies
and other legal covenants, require RTD to enter annual audited financial statements into the
record.
2. Do not accept and enter into the record the audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2015 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD’s independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP. This is not the recommended action, since state statutes and other sources, such as rating
agencies and other legal covenants, require RTD to enter annual audited financial statements into
the record.
ATTACHMENTS:


1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016)



Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Sue Sandoval, Senior Manager, Accounting

Packet Pg. 23

2.11.D

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 24

2.11.D.a

Fiscal year ended
December 31, 2015 and 2014

Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street, Denver, Colorado
303.299.6000 rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL
FINANCIAL REPORT

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DENVER, COLORADO
COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2015 and 2014

Prepared by
Finance Division
Chief Financial Officer

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

2

Packet Pg. 27

2.11.D.a

Page

INTRODUCTORY SECTION
Letter from Chair, Executive Committee

5

Letter of Transmittal

7

Board of Directors

13

District Service Area Map

14

Organization Chart

15

Department Officials

15

GFOA Certificate of Achievement

16

FINANCIAL SECTION
Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

19

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

23

Basic Financial Statements
Statements of Net Position

37

Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

39

Statements of Cash Flow

40

Notes to Financial Statements

43

Required Supplementary Information
Pension Plan Summary

81

Supplemental Information
Schedule of Expense and Revenue –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

87

STATISTICAL SECTION
Net Position by Component

89

Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

90

3
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

TABLE OF CONTENTS
(CONTINUED)
Page
Operating and Other Expenses and Capital Outlays

91

Revenue by Source

92

Debt Coverage Ratios

93

Demographic and Operating Data

95

Debt Disclosure Tables

96

Strategic Budget Plan –Operations

97

Strategic Budget Plan - Capital Program

98

Statement of Debt

99

Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue

100

Advertising and Ancillary Revenues

100

Grant Receipts and Local Contributions

100

Five-Year Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses
and Changes in Net Position

101

Five-Year Schedule of Expenses and Revenues –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

102

Fiscal Year 2016 and 2015 Budget

103

Trip Fares

104

RTD Net Taxable Retail Sales

105

4
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

2.11.D.a

May 5, 2016
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado
In accordance with Colorado statutes and Regional Transportation District (RTD) bylaws, the enclosed Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report of the Regional Transportation District as of December 31, 2015, has been compiled. Responsibility for the
accuracy of the presented data and the completeness and fairness of the presentation, including all disclosures, rests with RTD.
Management believes the data, as presented, fairly sets forth the financial position and operating results of RTD. Disclosures
necessary to enable the reader to gain the maximum understanding of the financial affairs of RTD have been included.
In developing and evaluating RTD’s accounting system, consideration has been given to the adequacy of internal accounting controls.
These controls are discussed by the Chief Financial Officer in the Letter of Transmittal. Within that framework, we believe RTD’s
internal accounting controls adequately safeguard assets and provide reasonable assurance of the proper recording of financial
transactions.
This report has been prepared according to the guidelines recommended by the Government Finance Officers Association of the
United States and Canada. In accordance with these guidelines, the accompanying report is presented in three parts:
1.

Introductory Section, including the Chief Financial Officer’s Letter of Transmittal.

2.

Financial Section containing the independent auditor’s report, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the financial
statements, notes thereto and supplemental information.

3.

Statistical Section, including selected tables of unaudited data depicting the financial history of RTD, demographics, and
other miscellaneous information.

Colorado law requires the governing bodies of local governments to have an independent audit of RTD’s financial statements
performed. RTD has complied with this requirement and has included the report of the independent auditors in the Financial Section
of this report.
Preparation of this Comprehensive Annual Financial Report could not have been accomplished without the dedicated efforts of the
entire financial staff. Should you have any questions or comments, please contact me or Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer.
Respectfully submitted,
Tom Tobiassen, CISSP, CISA
Chair, Executive Committee

5
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Regional Transportation District

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

6

Packet Pg. 31

2.11.D.a

May 5, 2016
Mr. Tom Tobiassen
Chair, Executive Committee
Regional Transportation District
State law requires that all general-purpose local governments publish within seven months of the close of each fiscal year a
complete set of financial statements presented in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a firm of licensed certified public accountants. Pursuant
to that requirement, we hereby issue the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015.
This report consists of management’s representations concerning the finances of RTD. Consequently, management assumes
full responsibility for the completeness and reliability of all of the information presented in this report. To provide a reasonable
basis for making these representations, management of RTD has established a comprehensive internal control framework that
is designed both to protect the government’s assets from loss, theft, or misuse and to compile sufficient, reliable information
for the preparation of RTD’s financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Because the cost of internal controls should not
outweigh their benefits, RTD’s comprehensive framework of internal controls has been designed to provide reasonable rather
than absolute assurance that the financial statements will be free from material misstatement. As management, we assert
that, to the best of our knowledge and belief, this financial report is complete and reliable in all material respects.
RTD’s financial statements have been audited by RubinBrown, LLP, a firm of licensed certified public accountants. The goal of
the independent audit was to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements of RTD for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2015, are free of material misstatement. The independent audit involved examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements; assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management; and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. The independent auditor
concluded, based upon the audit, that there was a reasonable basis for rendering an unmodified opinion that RTD’s financial
statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, are fairly presented in conformity with GAAP. The independent
auditor’s report is presented as the first component of the Financial Section of this report.
The independent audit of the financial statements of RTD was part of a broader, federally mandated “Single Audit” designed
to meet the special needs of federal grantor agencies. The standards governing Single Audit engagements require the
independent auditor to report not only on the fair presentation of the financial statements, but also on the audited
government’s internal controls and compliance with legal requirements, with special emphasis on internal controls and legal
requirements involving the administration of federal awards. These reports are in RTD’s separately issued Single Audit Report.
GAAP requires that management provide a narrative introduction, overview, and analysis to accompany the basic financial
statements in the form of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A). This letter of transmittal is designed to
complement the MD&A and should be read in conjunction with it. RTD’s MD&A can be found immediately following the
report of the independent auditors.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (RTD)
RTD provides public mass transit service to the Denver metropolitan area. In 1969, the Colorado General Assembly
(Assembly) found that public transit was a necessary part of the growing Denver Metropolitan Region. The Assembly found

7
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Regional Transportation District

2.11.D.a

RTD boundaries now include Jefferson, Boulder, and Denver counties, most of the City and County of Broomfield, and
portions of Adams, Douglas, Weld, and Arapahoe counties. Over 2.87 million people, or approximately 57% of the population
of Colorado, reside within RTD’s 2,340 square mile area.
Since 1983, RTD has had a fifteen-member Board of Directors that are elected by their constituents to serve four-year terms
to govern RTD. There are approximately 190,000 voters per director district. The RTD Board of Directors is responsible for
setting policy, overseeing the agency’s annual budget, and establishing short and long-range transit goals and plans in
concert with local, state, and federal agencies.
RTD employs over 2,700 men and women, making it one of the largest employers in the eight county areas. In addition, RTD
contracts with private carriers to provide access-a-ride and fixed route services employing over 1,700 men and women.
Besides its administrative headquarters in Denver, RTD has six operating facilities, including three in Denver, one in Aurora,
one in Englewood, and one in Boulder.
The financial reporting entity includes all of the financial activities of RTD, as well as those activities of its component unit,
the Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority), a nonprofit corporation established to facilitate RTD’s use of
lease/purchase financing.
RTD also maintains budgetary controls. These controls ensure compliance with legal provisions embodied in the annual
appropriated budget approved by RTD’s Board of Directors. The budget sets forth proposed outlays for operations, planning,
administration, development, debt service, and capital assets. The level of budgetary control (that is, the level at which
expenditures cannot legally exceed the appropriated amount) is established at the project level.
The annual budget serves as the foundation for RTD’s financial planning and control. All departments of RTD are required to
submit requests for appropriation to the General Manager on or before August 1st of each year. The General Manager uses
these requests as the starting point for developing a proposed budget. The General Manager then presents this proposed
budget to the Board of Directors for review prior to October 15th. The Board of Directors is required to hold a public hearing
on the proposed budget and to adopt a final budget no later than December 31st.
Unused appropriations lapse at year end, except that the Board of Directors has the authority, as stated in the adopted
appropriation resolution, to carry-over the unused portion of the funds for capital projects not completed, for a period not to
exceed three years.
RTD’s policy also authorizes the General Manager to approve certain line-item transfers within the budget. Budget-to-actual
comparisons are provided in the Supplemental Information Section of this report.
Factors Affecting Financial Condition
The information presented in the financial statements is perhaps best understood when it is considered in the broader
perspective of the specific environment within which RTD operates.
RTD serves the eight-county region considered the Denver metropolitan area. It is the most populated area of the state and
the economic barometer of Colorado. Employment in the Denver Metro area is dominated by small businesses. These
companies represent a diverse mix of industries and are located throughout the Denver metropolitan area, providing a
geographic balance in employment centers.

8
Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

that public sector involvement was the best method to ensure the continuation of this vital component. Thus, the Regional
Transportation District was created as a political subdivision of the State effective July 1969 “to develop, maintain, and
operate a public mass transportation system for the benefit of the District.”

2.11.D.a

Key Economic Indicators
Job Growth
Unemployment
Personal Income
Population
Inflation

2014 Actual
3.0%
4.9%
6.2%
1.6%
2.8%

2015 Forecast
3.0%
4.0%
5.1%
1.9%
1.1%

2016 Forecast
3.0%
3.8%
5.5%
1.7%
2.4%

On November 3, 1992, the voters of Colorado approved a Constitutional Amendment (the “Amendment”) that limits taxes,
revenue, and spending for state and local governments effective December 31, 1992. On November 7, 1995, the voters of
the District exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31,
2005. On November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations
outlined in the Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt incurred to finance the construction of the Southeast and
Southwest light rail lines or to operate such for as long as any debt remains outstanding, but in no event beyond
December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in the District’s sales and use tax rate from 0.6% to
1.0%, effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit improvement program. This authorization also exempted
the District from any revenue and spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the
increased tax revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the FasTracks
program. At the time that all FasTracks debt is repaid, the District’s sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate
sufficient to operate the transit system financed through FasTracks.
Long-term Financial Planning
Each year the Board of Directors adopts a financially constrained Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) which is the six-year operating
and capital improvement plan of RTD. It reflects RTD’s plans for service and capital improvements excluding FasTracks. In
November 2010, the Board of Directors convened a Fiscal Sustainability Task Force for the purpose of developing a formal
written report that was submitted to the Board of Directors in June 2011, detailing opportunities for operating efficiencies
and revenue enhancements to ensure RTD’s fiscal sustainability in the long term. The Task Force consisted of 21 members
from RTD management, the Board of Directors and the public and private sector. The Board of Directors gave approval to
management to pursue implementation of the Task Force’s recommendations. The SBP includes those recommendations that
have been implemented in the SBP timeframe, most notably an operational service adjustment, enhanced sales and use tax
forecasts and implementation of a revised fund balance policy which was implemented in 2013.
In addition to the SBP, RTD is planning and constructing the build-out of the FasTracks transit expansion plan. FasTracks
entails the addition of new bus rapid transit, light-rail lines and commuter rail lines, the redevelopment of Denver Union
Station, and expanded bus service throughout the eight county District. Each year, RTD conducts a comprehensive
evaluation of the entire FasTracks program, called an Annual Program Evaluation. RTD has worked closely with elected
officials, local governments, corridor stakeholders and the public to move the FasTracks program forward.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
RTD management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that assets
are protected from loss, theft, or misuse and that adequate accounting data are compiled to allow for the preparation of
financial statements in conformity with GAAP. RTD has designed its internal control structure to provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance that these objectives are met. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that: (1) the costs of a

9
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

The Colorado Legislative Council (CLC) in its December 2015 report forecasts that the economy is expected to grow at a
more moderate place, reflecting slower economic growth. Economists for CLC reported the following key economic
indicators:

2.11.D.a

Single Audit: As a recipient of federal assistance, RTD is responsible for ensuring that an adequate internal control
structure is instituted to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to those programs. This internal
control structure is subject to periodic evaluation by management and the RTD internal audit staff.
As part of RTD’s single audit, tests are made to determine the adequacy of the internal control structure, including that
portion related to federal financial assistance programs, as well as to evaluate RTD’s compliance. RTD’s single audit for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 found no instances of material weakness in the internal control structures or
significant violations of applicable laws and regulations. A separate report was prepared for this purpose.
Fiscal Policy: RTD follows a fiscal policy approved by the Board of Directors annually or as necessary due to modification.
The fiscal policy contains policies for revenue, investments, expenditures, capital improvements, fund balance, debt,
budgeting, accounting and grants. In 2012, RTD modified its fund balance policy to establish a structure that was
recommended by the RTD Fiscal Sustainability Task Force as being a necessary tool in designating funds to be available for
specific purposes to ensure fiscal sustainability.
Debt Administration: RTD formulates its debt policy to protect its credit ratings and soundly manage its assets and
liabilities. Included in this policy is a requirement that debt will not be used to finance current operations. Another
requirement precludes financing capital projects beyond the useful life of the project. Additional policies go beyond these
essential guidelines and result in further protection. RTD has a dual rating for its 1.0% sales tax credit. Moody’s Investors
Service rates the sales tax credit as “Aa2”, Standard and Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AAA” and Fitch
Ratings rates the sales tax credit “AA+” that are secured by the 0.6% sales tax. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sales
tax credit as “Aa2”, Standard and Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AA+” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax
credit “AA” that are secured by the 0.4% sales tax.
Cash Management: The main objective of RTD’s cash management program is the protection of investment principal while
providing optimal levels of cash throughout the year. The RTD investment policy is modified periodically to adapt to changes
in eligible investments, benchmarks, and specific objectives.
During the year, RTD invested its cash in various investment vehicles including money market funds, U.S. Treasury securities,
agency securities, discount notes, commercial paper, repurchase agreements, and variable and fixed rate mortgage-backed
securities. The total average return on investments for the year was 0.5%.
Risk Management: RTD employs a combination of self-insurance and purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets
and control and prevent losses.
The areas of self-insurance are worker’s compensation, automobile and general liability. RTD is self-insured for liability, the
limits of which are $350,000 per person and $990,000 per occurrence as specified under the Colorado Governmental
Immunity statute. The self-insured retention for worker’s compensation claims is $2,000,000 per claim, with any amounts
above this covered by purchased insurance up to the legal limits of liability under the Colorado worker’s compensation
statute.
Commercial insurance policies provide property coverage up to $1,663,245,896 for buildings, their contents, and rolling
stock (other than collision); a Commercial Crime Policy and Faithful Performance Bond; a $3,500,000 Workers’
Compensation Bond; Felonious Assault Policy; travel insurance for employees on RTD business; fidelity coverage on the
Trustees of the Union Pension Trust, Salaried Pension Trust, Represented Health and Welfare Union Trust, Legal Trust, and
the employees administering the health benefits program for salaried employees. With the growth of Light Rail Transit (LRT)
services, RTD has added Railroad Protective and Railroad Liability commercial insurance policies that provide coverage when
required under operational needs.

10
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

control should not exceed the benefits likely to be derived and (2) the valuation of costs and benefits requires estimates and
judgment by management.

2.11.D.a

OTHER INFORMATION
Independent Audit: State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. The accounting firm
of RubinBrown LLP was selected to perform the 2015 audit. This audit also was designated to meet the requirements of the
Federal Single Audit 2 CFR 200.501, Uniform Grant Guidance and related 2 CFR 200, Uniform Grant Guidance – Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements. The auditor’s report on the financial statements and
schedules are included in the Financial Section of this report. The auditor’s report related specifically to the single audit is
included in a separate report.
Awards: The Government Finance Officers Associations (GFOA) awarded a Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in
Financial Reporting to RTD for its Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. This
is the twenty-third consecutive year, after a two-year absence from the program, that RTD has been awarded this
prestigious award.
In order to receive the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting, RTD must publish an easily readable
and efficiently organized Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, the contents of which must conform to program standards.
This report must also satisfy both GAAP and applicable legal requirements.
The Certificate of Achievement is valid for one year only. We believe our current Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
meets the program’s requirements and will be submitting it to the GFOA to determine its eligibility for another certificate.
Acknowledgements: Preparation of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report on a timely basis was made possible by
the dedicated services of the entire staff of the Finance Division. Each member of the division has our sincere appreciation
for the contributions made in the preparation of this report.
Finally, without the leadership and support of the members of the RTD’s Board of Directors, preparation of this report would
not have been possible.
Sincerely,
Heather Copp
Chief Financial Officer

11
Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

The Risk Management Division coordinates these programs internally for RTD.

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

12

Packet Pg. 37

Board of Directors
RTD’s governing body is a 15-member elected Board of Directors, with each member elected from one of the fifteen districts
comprising RTD’s service area. Each district is apportioned equally by population and most districts cross county
boundaries. The districts are assigned letter designations from “A” to “O”. The following are the members of the Board of
Directors as of February 2016:
District A
Bill James
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District I
Judy Lubow
Boulder/Broomfield/Adams/Weld Counties

District B
Barbara Deadwyler, Second Vice Chair
Denver/Adams Counties

District J
Larry Hoy, First Vice Chair
Adams/Jefferson Counties

District C
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta
Denver/Jefferson Counties

District K
Paul Daniel Solano, Secretary
Adams/Weld Counties

District D
Jeff Walker
Denver/Jefferson/Arapahoe Counties

District L
Lorraine Anderson
Jefferson/Adams Counties

District E
Claudia Folska
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District M
Natalie Menten
Jefferson County

District F
Tom Tobiassen, Chair
Arapahoe County

District N
Tina Francone, Treasurer
Jefferson County

District G
Gary Lasater
Arapahoe/Douglas Counties

District O
Charles L. Sisk
Boulder County

District H
Kent Bagley
Arapahoe/Douglas Counties

13
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

14

Packet Pg. 39

2.11.D.a

Taxpayers and Customers
Board of Directors

General Manager

Bus Operations

Communications

Rail Operations

Planning

Finance/Administration

General Counsel

Capital Programs

Safety, Security &
Facilities

Department Officials
General Manager/Chief Executive Officer
Dave Genova

AGM, Planning
William C. Van Meter

AGM, Bus Operations
Bruce Abel

AGM, Capital Programs (Acting)
Henry Stopplecamp

Chief Financial Officer/Administration
Heather Copp

General Counsel (Acting)
Rolf Asphaug

AGM, Rail Operations
Terry Emmons

AGM, Communications
Scott Reed

AGM, Safety, Security & Facilities (Acting)
John Tarbert

15
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Organization Chart

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

16

Packet Pg. 41

FINANCIAL SECTION

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

17

Packet Pg. 42

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

18

Packet Pg. 43

2.11.D.a
RubinBrown LLP
Certified Public Accountants
& Business Consultants

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado

1900 16th Street
Suite 300
Denver, CO 80202
T 303.698.1883
F 303.777.4458
W rubinbrown.com
E info@rubinbrown.com

Report On The Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Regional Transportation
District (RTD) as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 and the
related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise RTD’s basic
financial statements as listed in the table of contents.
Management’s Responsibility For The Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America; this includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America and the standards applicable to financial
audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General
of the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the
auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation
and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinion.

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Independent Auditors’ Report

2.11.D.a

Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of RTD as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the
changes in its financial position and its cash flows for the years then ended in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
Emphasis Of Matters
As discussed in Note A.19, the Board adopted the provisions of the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial
Reporting for Pensions-An Amendment of GASB No. 27, effective July 1, 2014. Our
opinions were not modified with respect to this matter.
Other Matters
Required Supplementary Information
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that
the management’s discussion and analysis and pension plan summary information on
pages 23 through 34 and 80 through 85, respectively, be presented to supplement the
basic financial statements. Such information, although not a part of the basic financial
statements, is required by GASB, which considers it to be an essential part of financial
reporting for placing the basic financial statements in an appropriate operational,
economic or historical context. We have applied certain limited procedures to the
required supplementary information in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which consisted of inquiries of management
about the methods of preparing the information and comparing the information for
consistency with management’s responses to our inquiries, the basic financial
statements and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic financial
statements. We do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on the information
because the limited procedures do not provide us with sufficient evidence to express an
opinion or provide any assurance.
Supplementary And Other Information
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the financial
statements that collectively comprise RTD’s basic financial statements. The
accompanying budgetary information, summary schedules, introductory section and
statistical section are presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a
required part of the basic financial statements.
20

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

2.11.D.a

The budgetary information is the responsibility of management and was derived from
and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the
basic financial statements. Such information has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and certain additional
procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the
underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements
or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.
In our opinion, the budgetary information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in
relation to the financial statements as a whole.
The summary schedules, introductory and statistical sections have not been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements, and
accordingly, we do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on them.
Other Reporting Required By Government Auditing Standards
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report
dated May 5, 2016 on our consideration of RTD’s internal control over financial
reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations,
contracts and grant agreements and other matters. The purpose of that report is to
describe the scope of our testing of internal control over financial reporting and
compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on internal
control over financial reporting or on compliance. That report is an integral part of an
audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering
RTD’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance.

May 5, 2016

21

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

22

Packet Pg. 47

The management of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) offers users of our financial statements this narrative overview and
analysis of the financial activities for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. This discussion and analysis is designed to assist
the reader to focus on significant financial activities and identify any significant changes in the financial position of RTD. It should be read
in conjunction with the financial statements that follow this section. All amounts, unless otherwise indicated, are expressed in thousands
of dollars.
Key Reporting Implementations
In fiscal year 2015 RTD implemented the provisions of GASB Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions, and
GASB Statement 71, Pension Transition for Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date. GASB Statement Nos. 68 and 71
establish standards for measuring and recognizing net pension liabilities, deferred outflows of resources, deferred inflows of resources,
and expenses related to pension benefits provided through defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
Financial Highlights
As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, total assets and deferred outflows of resources of RTD exceeded total liabilities and deferred
inflows of resources by $3,176,938 and $3,181,074, respectively. The amount of unrestricted net position as of December 31, 2015
was $(199,265) compared to $18,842 in 2014. RTD’s unrestricted net position was negatively impacted by the implementation of GASB
Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions (GASB 68). GASB 68 required RTD to record the amount of
unfunded pension liabilities. More information on the pension plans is available in the Notes starting on page 59.
The net position of RTD decreased by $4,136 during the current year compared to an increase of $203,625 in the previous year. The
decrease in 2015 was the result of the GASB 68 new financial reporting requirement. The increase for 2014 was due to higher operating
revenues, sales and use tax and grant revenues, net of increases in operating expenses and non-operating expenses which resulted from
an improving economy combined with revenue enhancement and expense reduction initiatives undertaken by RTD.
RTD’s sales and use tax revenues are its largest single source of revenues. These tax revenues increased $26,797 (5.2%) in 2015 and
increased $46,135 (9.8%) in the previous year due to broad-based increases in retail sales within the District as the local economy
emerges from the recession.
For 2015, total operating expenses exceeded total revenues resulting in a loss before non-operating revenue and expenses of $535,478
compared to a loss of $534,199 for 2014. The increase in operating loss for 2015 was due to the increased cost of salaries and fringe
benefits. RTD anticipates operating losses, as these losses are subsidized by non-operating sales and use tax, grant revenues and other
miscellaneous income.
RTD’s total debt increased $230,096 (7.1%) and increased $501,624 (18.5%) in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Debt increased in 2015
due to issuance of certificates of participation for the purpose of funding scheduled acquisition of equipment, buses and light rail vehicles.
Debt increased in 2014 due to the issuance of certificates of participation primarily for the purpose of funding of construction of North
Metro Rail Line as well as well as borrowings on the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) bond for
construction of the FasTracks project elements.
Capital grants and local contributions decreased $37,118 (18.0%) in 2015 and decreased $36,135 (14.9%) in the previous year. The
decrease in 2015 occurred as a result of several major construction project being completed, U.S. 36 Manages Lanes, Denver Union
Station, and West Rail Line, reducing grant funding. The decrease in 2014 occurred as a result of the reduced contributed capital from the
Denver Union Station construction project which was completed in 2014.
RTD’s capital assets, excluding depreciation, increased $798,324 in 2015 and increased $814,250 in 2014. The increase in 2015 was
primarily due to the build-out of Fastracks project. The increase in 2014 was from replacement of fleet and build-out of Fastracks
project.

23
Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Basic Financial Statements
Management’s Discussion and Analysis serves as an introduction to RTD’s basic financial statements. RTD’s financial statements are
prepared using proprietary fund (enterprise fund) accounting that uses the same basis of accounting as private-sector business
enterprises. Under this method of accounting, an economic resources measurement focus and an accrual basis of accounting is used.
Revenue is recorded when earned and expenses are recorded when incurred.
The basic financial statements are comprised of four components: statements of net position; statements of revenues, expenses and
changes in net position; statements of cash flows; and notes to the financial statements.
The statements of net position presents information on assets and deferred outflows of resource and liabilities and deferred inflows of
resources, with the difference between the two reported as the net position. Over time, increases or decreases in net position may serve
as a useful indicator of whether the financial position of RTD is improving or deteriorating. The statements of revenues, expenses, and
changes in net position presents information on operating revenues and expenses and non-operating revenues and expenses of RTD for the
fiscal year with the difference, the net income or loss, combined with any capital grants and local contributions to determine the change
in net position for the year. That change combined with the previous year-end total net position reconciles to the net position total at the
end of the current fiscal year. All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event giving rise to the changes occurs,
regardless of the timing of the related cash flows.
The statements of cash flows reports cash and cash equivalent activities for the fiscal year resulting from operating activities, capital,
and related financing activities, noncapital and related financing activities and investing activities. The result of these activities added to
the beginning of the year cash balance reconciles to the cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the current fiscal year. The
statements of cash flows, along with the related notes and information in other financial statements, can be used to assess the following:
RTD’s ability to generate positive cash flows and pay its debt as the debt matures; the reasons for differences between RTD’s operating
cash flows and operating income (loss); and the effect of investing, capital, and financing activities on RTD’s financial position.
The notes to the financial statements provide additional information that is essential to fully understand the data provided in the
statement of net position, statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in net position, and statement of cash flows.
RTD provides bus, paratransit, and light rail service in a 2,340 square mile area in and around Denver, Colorado. The activities of RTD are
supported by a 0.6% and 0.4% sales and use tax collected within the District. The 0.6% sales and use tax is used to fund the Base
System operations of RTD. The Base System operations provide the bus and the majority of current light rail services in the Denver area.
The 0.4% sales and use tax funds the FasTracks build-out program and operation and maintenance of those program elements as well as
providing for enhanced transit services in the District. Additional revenue sources include fare collections, federal, state, and local
financial assistance, investment income, and other income such as advertising and rental income.
Financial Analysis
Condensed Financial Information - Condensed financial information from the statements of net position and statements of revenues,
expenses, and changes in net position is presented below.
Statements of Net Position – As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, total assets and deferred outflows of resources of RTD exceeded
total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources by $3,176,938 and $3,181,074, respectively. The largest portion of this excess, in
2015 and in 2014, was invested in capital assets, net of related debt. RTD uses these capital assets to provide public transportation
services to customers; consequently, these assets are not available for future spending. Although RTD’s investment in capital assets
is reported net of related debt, it should be noted that funding required to repay this debt will be obtained from other sources such as
sales and use tax, since the capital assets themselves cannot be used to pay the related debt. The amount of unrestricted net position
as of December 31, 2015 was $(199,265) compared to $18,842 in 2014. Substantially all of the unrestricted net position, although
not legally restricted, has been appropriated or reserved by the RTD Board for future capital acquisition and reserve policy

24
Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

requirements, and debt liquidation during the budget process. The deficit balance in Unrestricted Net Position includes an allowance
for a Net Pension Liability of $284,175 in 2015 for the represented employee defined benefit pension plan (see Note I). RTD has
recognized this liability in its financial statements in accordance with GASB Statement 68; however, RTD is current in making all
required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.
Condensed Summary Statements of Net Position
2015
Assets and Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Current assets
Current assets - restricted
Capital assets (net of accumulated depreciation)
Other noncurrent assets
Deferred outflows of resources
Total sssets and deferred outflows of resources

$

447,414
414,548
6,131,608
357,908
77,736
7,429,214

2014
$

549,772
582,236
5,413,455
301,173
39,736
6,886,372

2013
$

546,876
710,639
4,696,735
151,611
43,471
6,149,332

Liabilities and Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Current liabilities
Noncurrent liabilities
Deferred infows of resources
Total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources

290,568
3,957,007
4,701
4,252,276

313,687
3,390,984
627
3,705,298

319,004
3,038,558
656
3,358,218

Net position:
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted
Total net position

3,274,663
101,540
(199,265)
3,176,938

2,987,694
174,538
18,842
3,181,074

2,788,100
136,131
53,218
2,977,449

$

$

$

In 2015, capital assets net of accumulated depreciation increased $718,153 (13.3%) for acquisition of revenue equipment, buildings,
land, and construction in progress for the projects in the FasTracks program.
Current liabilities decreased $23,119 (7.4%) in 2015 primarily due to an accrued lower construction payment for the FasTracks Eagle P3
project to the project concessionaire due in early 2016.
Noncurrent liabilities and deferred inflows increased $570,097 (16.8%) primarily due implementation of GASB Statement No. 68,
Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions, and GASB Statement 71, Pension Transition for Contributions Made Subsequent to the
Measurement Date. In addition, to the issuance of certificates of participation for acquisition of equipment, buses, light rail vehicles.
The net position of RTD decreased by $4,136 during the current year compared to an increase of $203,625 in the previous year. The
decrease in 2015 was the result of GASB 68 new financial reporting requirement. The increases in 2014 was due to higher operating
revenues, grant revenue income and sales and use tax collection increases, net of increases in operating expenses and non-operating
expenses.
Statements of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position–The following summary of revenues, expenses, and changes in net
position shows the activities of RTD resulted in change of net position. The key elements of changes in net position for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 with comparative information for 2013 are shown in the following table:

25
Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Summary of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
2015
2014

Operating revenue:
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses:
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Total operating expenses
Operating loss
Nonoperating revenues (expenses):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain on Sale of Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/ Unrealized Loss on Assets
Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Income before capital contribution
Capital grants and local contributions

$

Increase in net position
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as previously reported)
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as restated)
NET POSITION, end of year (as restated)
$

120,530
5,347
125,877

$

120,497
4,406
124,903

2013
$

117,841
5,199
123,040

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531
661,355
(535,478)

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
659,102
(534,199)

135,660
56,745
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
127,256
638,737
(515,697)

541,518
73,383
3,164
11,407
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364
12,886
169,313

514,721
75,544
165
16,861
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393
(2,806)
206,431

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,088
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670
5,973
242,566

182,199

203,625

248,539

3,181,074
2,994,739
3,176,938

2,977,449
3,181,074

2,728,910
2,977,449

$

$

The information contained in the condensed information table is used as the basis for the revenue and expense discussion presented
below, surrounding RTD’s activities for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.

26
Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Revenues - The following schedule and charts show the major sources of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and
2013.
Revenue Analysis
2015
Revenues
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain-sale of assets
Capital grants and local contributions
Total Revenues

$

2014

120,530
5,347
541,518
73,383
3,164
11,407
169,313
924,662

$

$

$

120,497
4,406
514,721
75,544
165
16,861
206,431
938,625

2013
$

$

117,841
5,199
468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
242,566
952,645

Revenue Analysis
$600,000
$500,000
$400,000
$300,000
$200,000

2015

$100,000

2014

$-

2013

Capital grants
and local
contributions
18%
Other
income/Gainsale of assets
1%

2015 Revenue

Capital grants
and local
contributions
22%

Passenger
fares
13%
Advertising
and other
0.6%

Other
income/Gainsale of assets
2%

Investment
income
0.03%
Grant
operating
assistance
8%

2014 Revenue
Passenger
fares
13%
Advertising
and other
0.5%

Investment
income
0.02%

Grant
operating
assistance
8%

Sales and use
tax
59%

Sales and use
tax
55%

27
Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Passenger fares – Passenger fares provided 13.0% and 12.8% of total revenues in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Farebox receipts,
monthly and annual pass revenue, and special event fares for bus and rail services are included in passenger fares. Passenger fares
increased by $33 (0%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $2,656 (2.3%) in 2014. Passenger fares changes in 2015 were minimal. The
increase in 2014 was due in part, to full year of revenue service of the West Line light rail line which opened in April 2013.
Advertising and other – Advertising and other revenue provided 0.6% and 0.5% of total revenues in 2015 and 2014; this includes
revenues from advertisements primarily on RTD’s buses and external wraps on light rail vehicles. Advertising and other income increased
$941 (21.4%) in 2015 compared to a decrease of $793 (15.3%) in 2014. The increase in 2015 was due an increase in advertising
revenue related to a stronger economic growth. The decrease in 2014 was primarily due to reduced joint venture revenue contracts.
Sales and Use Tax – Sales and use tax provided 58.6% and 54.8% of RTD’s total revenues in 2015 and 2014 respectively. Sales and
use tax is a dedicated 1.0% tax imposed on certain sales within the service area. Sales and use tax increased $26,797 (5.2%) in 2015
compared to an increase of $46,135 (9.8%) in 2014. In 2015 and 2014, the District experienced growth in tax revenues due to increased
consumer and business spending activity as the local economy continues to emerge from the recession.
Grant operating assistance – Grant operating assistance provided 7.9% and 8.0% of total revenues in 2015 and 2014. Grant
operating assistance decreased $2,161 (2.9%) in 2015 compared to a decrease of $12,699 (14.4%) in 2014. The operating assistance is
a federal grant revenue program used to perform capital maintenance and maintain RTD’s revenue fleet of bus, paratransit, and rail
vehicles. The decrease in 2015 and 2014 is the result of grant funding sources being available during the year.
Investment Income – Investment income provided 0.34% and 0.02% of total revenues in 2015 and 2014. Investment income increased
$2,999 (1817.6%) in 2015 compared to a decrease of $1,875 (91.9%) in 2014. The increase in 2015 was due to fixed securities getting
better yields in 2015 and progressively higher investment balances. The decrease in 2014 was due to lower investment balance as
invested funds are being utilized for the build-out of the FasTracks project in addition to unrealized losses attributed to mark-to-market
valuation under a rising interest rate environment.
Other Income/Gain on sale of Assets – Other income provided 1.2% and 1.8% of total revenues in 2015 and 2014. Other income
decreased $5,454 (32.3%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $11,309 (40.1%) in 2014. Other income includes interest subsidy income,
rental income from retail space, parking, and miscellaneous other items. The decrease in 2015 was due to reduction of asset sales which
was primarily attributable to the Denver Union Stations land parcels sold 2014. The decrease in 2014 was due to the one time increase in
2013 which was primarily attributable to the sale of RTD’s Civic Center air rights and the sale of an easement on RTD property.
Capital grants and local contributions – Capital grants and local contributions provided 18.3% and 22.0% of total revenues in 2015
and 2014. Capital grants and local contributions decreased $37,118 (18.0%) in 2015 and decreased $36,135 (14.9%) in the previous
year. The decrease in both years resulted from lower capital contributions related to completion of major construction projects: West Rail
line, U.S. 36 Manages Lanes and Denver Union Station multi-modal hub.

28
Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Expenses - The following schedule and charts shows the major sources of expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and
2013.
Expense Analysis
2015

Expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Interest expense
Other expense
Total Expenses

2014

2013

$

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531
79,686
1,422

$

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
72,293
3,605

$

135,660
56,745
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
127,256
61,223
4,146

$

742,463

$

735,000

$

704,106

Expense Analysis
$180,000
$160,000
$140,000
$120,000
$100,000
$80,000
$60,000
$40,000
$20,000
$-

2015

Other expense
0.2%

2015 Expenses

Interest
expense
11%

Salaries and
wages
20%
Fringe benefits
10%

Depreciation
21%

2013
Other
expense/
Unrealized
loss
1%
Interest
expense
10%

2014 Expenses

Salaries and
wages
19%
Fringe benefits
8%

Depreciation
19%

Miscellaneous
1%

Miscellaneous
1%

Leases and
rentals
0.5%
Purchased
transportation
Insurance
15%
1%

2014

Materials and
supplies
8%
Utilities
2%

Services
11%

Leases and
rentals
0.4%
Purchased
transportation
Insurance
16%
1%

Utilities
2%

Services
15%

Materials and
supplies
8%

29
Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Salaries and wages–Salary and wage expense is the largest expense category accounting for 20.3% and 19.5% of the total RTD
expenses in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Salary and wage expenses increased by $7,695 (5.4%) in 2015 compared to an increase of
$7,453 (5.5%) in 2014. Increases in both years occurred from salary and wage performance (result based) and progression increases.
Benefits – Fringe benefits accounted for 10.3% and 8.4% of total expenses in 2015 and 2014. Fringe benefits increased by $14,722
(23.9%) compared to an increase of $4,932 (8.7%) in 2014. The increase in 2015 is primarily due to implementation GASB Statement
Nos. 68 and 71 establish standards for measuring and recognizing net pension liabilities. The increase in 2014 is primarily due to medical
costs; resulting from CBA employer contribution ranging from $165-$185/employee increase and salaried medical costs also increased
from prior year. Pension cost also increased in 2014 due to increased wages.
Materials and supplies – The materials and supplies expense category accounted for 7.9% and 8.5% of the total RTD expenses in 2015
and 2014 respectively. Materials and supplies expenses decreased $3,272 (5.3%) in 2015 compared to a decrease of $2,642 (4.1%) in
2014. The decrease in both years is primarily due to a decrease in diesel/gasoline fuel prices. In addition, replacement bus fleet
acquisition lowered costs of repair parts.
Services – Services expense accounted for 10.7% and 14.8% of total expenses in 2015 and 2014. Services expense includes
contracted services such as security services; vehicle, equipment and right of way maintenance services; advertising and marketing
services, and legal services. Services expense decreased $29,171 (26.8%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $3,559 (3.2%) in 2014.
The decrease in 2015 was primarily due to the contract service reduction for U.S. 36 managed lane project (Phase I).
Utilities – Utilities accounted for 1.8% and 1.9% of total expenses in 2015 and 2014. Utilities expense includes electric,
telecommunications, water and sewer, and natural gas for facilities. Utilities expense decreased $478 (3.4%) in 2015 compared to an
increase of $584 (4.3%) in 2014. The decrease in 2015 occurred due to reduction of traction power costs as a result of West Rail Line
reduced rail passenger car capacity. The increase in 2014 occurred primarily due to higher electricity rates affecting traction power costs
for light rail services.
Insurance – Insurance accounted for 1.1% and 0.7% of total expenses in 2015 and 2014. Insurance expense includes RTD’s self-insured
cost for general liability and worker’s compensation claims. In addition, RTD purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets.
Insurance expense increased $2,829 (53.7%) in 2015 compared to a decrease of $295 (5.3%) in 2014. The increase in 2015 was due
increased frequency and severity of claims. The decrease in 2014 was due to reduction of claim activity.
Purchased transportation – The purchased transportation expense category accounted for 15.2% and 15.6% of the total expenses in
2015 and 2014. Purchased transportation represents the costs of contracted transportation services for bus, access-a-Ride, and call-nRide services. Purchased transportation costs decreased $1,726 (1.5%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $1,936 (1.7%) in 2014. The
decrease in 2015 was primarily due to reduction in service. The increase in 2014 was primarily due to negotiated contract rate increases.
Leases and rentals – Leases and rentals include lease expense for office space, office equipment, park-n-Ride facilities, and use of
communication towers. Leases and rentals expense increased $198 (6.1%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $54 (1.7%) in 2014. The
increase for both years is primarily due to RTD’s need for additional office space.
Miscellaneous – Miscellaneous expense includes other incidental operating expenses not included in other defined categories.
Miscellaneous expenses decreased $2,030 (30.9%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $113 (1.8%) in 2014. This category includes
additional one-time project expenses creating fluctuations between years.
Depreciation – The depreciation expense category accounted for 20.5% and 18.9% of the total RTD expenses in 2015 and 2014,
respectively. Depreciation expense is a non-cash systematic allocation of the cost of capital assets over the estimated useful life of the
assets. Depreciation expense increased $13,486 (9.7%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $11,789 (9.3%) in 2014. The increase in

30
Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

2015 occurred primarily due the acquisition of new fleets, CAD/AVL and build-out of FasTracks. The increase in 2014 occurred primarily
from the activation of the West Line into revenue service in April.
Interest expense – The interest expense category accounted for 10.7% and 9.8% of the total RTD expenses in 2015 and 2014,
respectively. Interest expense increased $7,393 (10.2%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $11,070 (18.1%) in 2014. Interest expense
increases are due to the additional borrowings surrounding the FasTracks build-out and scheduled fleet replacements.
Other expense – Other expense includes miscellaneous non-operating expenses not classified in other expense categories. Other expense
decreased $2,183 (60.6%) in 2015 compared to a decrease of $541 (13.0%) in 2014. The decrease in both years was the result on
reduced loss of sales of assets compared to prior year.
Capital Assets – Investments in capital assets include: land and rights-of-way; buildings and improvements; leasehold improvements;
revenue and non-revenue vehicles; shop and service equipment; security and surveillance equipment; computer equipment; and furniture.
RTD’s investment in capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, in 2015 was $6,131,608 compared to $5,413,455 in 2014. The
increase in capital assets in 2015 was $718,153 (13.3%) compared to an increase of $716,720 (15.3%) in 2014. RTD acquires its
assets with sales and use tax revenues, farebox revenue, federal capital grants, and proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds and
certificates of participation. The increases during 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to the cost of planning, design and construction of
FasTracks projects and fleet acquisition.
The following table summarizes capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 with comparative
information for 2013.
Capital Assets (Net of Depreciation)
2015
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shops, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total

$

$

390,250
1,490,304
295,359
550,425
79,988
3,325,282
6,131,608

2014
$

$

303,432
1,561,311
297,212
458,579
38,859
2,754,062
5,413,455

2013
$

$

265,577
1,438,275
85,639
397,947
43,206
2,466,091
4,696,735

Major capital asset events during the 2015 fiscal year included the following:
FasTracks West Corridor - The West Corridor is a 12.1 mile light rail transit corridor between the Auraria Campus in downtown Denver
and the Jefferson County Government Center in Golden, serving Denver, Lakewood, the Denver Federal Center, Golden and Jefferson
County. The West Line opened for revenue service in April 2013 and was the first corridor completed in the FasTracks program. In 2015,
expenditures related to the West Corridor were approximately $643.
FasTracks North Metro Corridor - The North Metro Corridor is an 18 mile rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station and 162nd
Avenue, passing through Denver, Commerce City, Thornton, Northglenn and unincorporated Adams County. A construction contract was
entered to complete the commuter rail line from DUS north to 124th Avenue by 2018 with an option to extend construction to 162nd
Avenue if additional funding is identified. In 2015, expenditures related to the North Metro Corridor were approximately $113,324.
FasTracks Northwest Corridor - The Northwest Corridor is a 41 mile transit corridor between Denver Union Station and Longmont,
passing through Denver, Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder, Longmont, unincorporated Adams County, and unincorporated
Boulder County and was constituted as a project separate from the ongoing work in the US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor. In 2015,
expenditures related to the Northwest Corridor were $43,717.

31
Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

East and Gold Line Public-Private Partnership (Eagle P3) RTD was selected for inclusion in the FTA Public-Private Partnership Pilot Program (Penta-P). In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private
partnership to design, build, finance, operate and maintain several of the transit improvements contemplated under the FasTracks
program. The Eagle P3 project is a $2,185,000 project that includes a Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East and Gold Line
Corridors as well as the Northwest Rail Electrified Segment. The Eagle P3 partnership was awarded to a concessionaire, Denver Transit
Partners (DTP), through a competitive bid process culminating in a contract price that was $305,000 below internal estimates. The
project is expected to begin revenue service in 2016.
The Eagle P3 project will be completed in two phases. Phase I includes the East Corridor, Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and design
work for Phase II. Phase II includes the Gold Line Corridor and the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment. In 2015, construction
expenditures related to the Eagle P3 project were $350,156. The Eagle P3 Project elements are described below:
FasTracks East Corridor - The East Corridor is a 23.6-mile commuter rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station and Denver
International Airport. The East Corridor opened for revenue service in April 2016.
FasTracks Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility - The Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility is being designed to service the four
planned commuter rail corridors (East Corridor, Gold Line, North Metro, and Northwest Rail) included in the FasTracks plan. The
Facility opened in 2015.
FasTracks Gold Line Corridor - The Gold Line Corridor is an 11.2 mile rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station to the
vicinity of Ward Road, passing through northwest Denver, unincorporated Adams County, Arvada, and Wheat Ridge. The Gold Line is
planned to be open for revenue service in Fall 2016.
FasTracks Northwest Electrified Rail Segment – The Northwest Rail Corridor, described previously, includes a project segment,
referred to as the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment, extending from Denver Union Station to Westminster. This segment is planned
to be open for revenue service in Summer 2016, which will be completed under the Eagle P3 Project Phase II which was issued a
notice to proceed in 2011.
FasTracks I-225 Rail Line – The I-225 Rail Line is a 10.5 mile extension of RTD’s existing light rail line from the Southeast Line Nine
Mile Station to the East Line commuter rail transfer point near the intersection of Peoria Street and Smith Road. The project includes
eight stations and will serve the Aurora City Center and the Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Campus. This line is planned to open for
revenue service in Winter 2016. In 2015, expenditures related to the I-225 Rail Line were $156,525.
FasTracks Southeast Rail Extension – The Southeast Rail Extension extends the popular Southeast Rail Line from Lincoln Station to
the new RidgeGate Parkway Interchange at I-25. The project will add 2.3 miles of light rail. New stations will be built at Sky Ridge
Medical Center, Lone Tree City Center and RidgeGate with a 1,300 space Park-n-Ride facility. In 2015, expenditures related to the
Southeast Rail Extension were $6,715. RTD has applied for a Small Starts Grant to fund the project.
Base Revenue Earning Equipment Transit Buses - RTD entered into a multiyear fixed price contract in 2013 with an option to
purchase up to 432 40’ low floor transit buses with Gillig LLC over a 5 year period. The new bus purchases will be replacing buses that
have exceeded their useful life. The transit buses are low floor handicap accessible. In 2015, expenditures related to the 40’ transit
buses were approximately $81,108.
Additional information on RTD’s capital assets can be found in note D of this report.
Debt Administration
Outstanding debt – Outstanding debt includes sales tax revenue bonds and certificates of participation. The 2015 outstanding debt was
$3,449,319 compared to $3,219,223 in 2014. Outstanding debt increased by $230,096 (7.1%) in 2015 and increased by $501,624

32
Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

(18.5%) in 2014. The increase in both years 2015 and 2014 is due to new COPs issued for rail projects and well as replacement of rolling
stock.
Sales tax revenue bonds – RTD issues sales tax revenue bonds to fund the acquisition and construction of assets. The sales tax
revenue bonds were $2,013,220 and $1,955,657 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The sales tax revenue bonds
increased $57,563 (2.9%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $60,477 (3.2%) in 2014. The increase in 2015 and 2014 is due to the
receipt of the TIFIA loan borrowings. The sales tax revenue bonds are payable from RTD’s sales and use tax revenue. RTD is required
to maintain certain minimum deposits, as defined in bond resolutions, to meet debt service requirements. The bonds may be redeemed
prior to maturity, at a price equal to the principal amount plus accrued interest thereon and a premium to the date of redemption.
Certificates of participation - Certificates of participation relate to financial obligations issued by the Asset Acquisition Authority,
Inc. (Authority), a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being used
to acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used by RTD. RTD leases the equipment acquired with the proceeds from the
Certificates under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. For financial reporting purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates as
its own debt. Certificates outstanding were $1,230,860 and $1,064,855 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The
Certificates outstanding increased $166,005 (15.6%) in 2015 compared to an increase of $409,625 (62.5%) in 2014. The increase in
2015 was due to the issuance of Certificates for the acquisition of equipment, buses and light rail vehicles. The increase in 2014 is due
to the issuance of Certificates for the construction of North Metro Rail Line.
The following table summarizes outstanding debt obligations as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 with comparative information for
2013.
Outstanding Debt
2015
Bonds and COPs payable:
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
Certificates of Participation
Total Principal
Issuance premiums and discounts
Debt net of issuance and refunding

2014

2013

$

2,013,220
1,230,860
3,244,080
205,239

$

1,955,657
1,064,855
3,020,512
198,711

$

1,895,180
655,230
2,550,410
167,189

$

3,449,319

$

3,219,223

$

2,717,599

RTD maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poor Corporation, Moody’s Investor Services, and Fitch Ratings. Credit ratings vary based
on the type of debt and the source of funds used for repayment.
RTD’s ratings are presented in the following table:
Rating Agency
Standard &Poor’s
Moody’s
Fitch

Base System Bonds 0.6%
Sales &Use Tax
AAA
Aa2
AA+

FasTracks Bonds 0.4%
Sales& Use Tax
AA+
Aa2
AA

Certificates of
Participation
A
Aa3
A

Additional information on RTD’s debt can be found in footnote E of this report.

33
Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Economic Factors and Subsequent Events after adoption of the 2015 Budget
RTD is dependent on sales and use taxes, which are the largest single source of revenue for RTD, representing 58.6% and 54.8% of the
total revenues in 2015 and 2014 respectively. Sales and use tax revenues are affected by the local economy in which changes will affect
the level of funding available to RTD during its fiscal year.
RTD is dependent on passenger fares collected for transit services provided. Passenger fares accounted for 13.0% and 12.8% of total
revenues in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Passenger fare collections may be affected by fare levels charged by RTD. In January 2016,
RTD implemented a fare increase and modification to fare products offered to customers.
RTD is dependent on federal and local grant funding for both operations and capital expenditures. Grants provided 26.2% and 30.0% of
total revenues in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Grant funding is only available for use by RTD for qualifying expenditures after
appropriation is made by the awarding agency.
Increases in operating expenditures are expected in 2016 due to the opening of four rail lines and bus rapid transit under the FasTracks
program. The FasTracks program is a plan to build a comprehensive, integrated region-wide transit network that will provide a reliable and
safe system, enhance mobility and respond to the growing transportation needs within the eight-county Regional Transportation District.
Additional FasTracks expansion projects are in various stages of completion with openings planned in future years.
RTD will issue revenue bonds in 2016 to provide a portion of the funding necessary to complete the Southeast Rail Line Extension as part
of the FasTracks expansion program. RTD plans to issue these bonds at a fixed interest rate and conventional terms. Outstanding bonds
and certificates of participation all have fixed interest rates and conventional terms in which debt service levels are not subject to
fluctuations in market interest rates, however, new issuances are subject to market interest rates at the time of issuance.
Requests for Information
This financial report is intended to provide an overview of RTD’s finances for those with an interest in this organization. Questions
concerning any information contained in this report may be directed to the Chief Financial Officer.

34
Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

35

Packet Pg. 60

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

36

Packet Pg. 61

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)

2015
ASSETS AND DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable interest bearing investments (note B)
Receivables:
Sales tax
Other, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $270 and
$256 at December, 31 2015 and 2014, respectively
Grants
Inventories
Other current assets (note C)
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Total current assets
Noncurrent Assets:
Capital assets (note D):
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total capital assets
Less accumulated depreciation
Net capital assets

$

2014

155,485
104,757

$

253,638
89,962

96,460

93,385

18,453
1,780
35,921
34,558
163,744
250,804
861,962

24,989
13,895
33,123
40,780
298,822
283,414
1,132,008

390,250
2,195,281
491,458
921,680
201,950
3,325,282
7,525,901
(1,394,293)
6,131,608

303,432
2,183,870
480,330
857,745
148,138
2,754,062
6,727,577
(1,314,122)
5,413,455

277,999
79,909
357,908

301,173
301,173

Total noncurrent assets

6,489,516

5,714,628

Total assets

7,351,478

6,846,636

Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Debt related (note A)
Pension related (note A)
Total deferred outflows of resources

36,331
41,405
77,736

39,736
39,736

Other Noncurrent Assets:
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - unrestricted (note B)
Total other noncurrent assets

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

37
Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION (CONTINUED)
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)
2015

2014

LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Liabilities
Accounts and contracts payable
Current portion of long-term debt payable from restricted assets (note E)
Accrued compensation (note F)
Accrued interest payable from restricted assets
Other accrued expenses
Total current liabilities

$

Noncurrent Liabilities
Long-term debt, net (note E)
Net Pension Liability (note E)
Other liabilities (note E)
Total noncurrent liabilities
Total liabilities

163,301
61,698
19,953
21,451
24,165
290,568

$

191,381
54,348
20,809
20,934
26,215
313,687

3,387,621
321,615
247,771
3,957,007

3,164,875
226,109
3,390,984

4,247,575

3,704,671

599
4,102

627
-

4,701

627

3,274,663
101,540
(199,265)

2,987,694
174,538
18,842

Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Debt related (note A)
Pension related (note A)
Total deferred inflows of resources
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets (note I)
Restricted net position (note I)
Unrestricted net position (note I)
Total net position, as restated

$

3,176,938

$

3,181,074

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

38
Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

2.11.D.a

2015
OPERATING REVENUE
Passenger fares
Advertising, rent, and other

$

Total operating revenue

2014

120,530
5,347

$

120,497
4,406

125,877

124,903

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045

Total operating expenses

661,355

659,102

OPERATING LOSS

(535,478)

(534,199)

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance (note A)
Investment income
Other income
Gain(Loss) on capital assets
Interest expense (note A)
Other expense

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)

Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)

548,364

531,393

INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS
AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS

12,886

(2,806)

169,313

206,431

INCREASE IN NET POSITION

182,199

203,625

NET POSITION, beginning of year (as previously reported)
Change in accounting principle (note A)
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as restated)

3,181,074
(186,335)
2,994,739

2,977,449
-

OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation

Capital grants and local contributions (note A)

NET POSITION, end of year (as restated)

$

3,176,938

$

3,181,074

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

39
Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
Year ended December 31,
(In Thousands)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
Year ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
2015
Cash flows from operating activities
Receipts from customers
Payments to suppliers
Payments to employees
Net cash used in operating activities

2014

130,385 $
(149,332)
(265,366)
(284,313)

122,104
(276,393)
(203,364)
(357,653)

73,383
538,443
10,322

75,544
505,933
10,248

622,148

591,725

(54,348)
277,915
181,428
457
(816,359)
(1,444)
(122,959)

(57,002)
527,104
203,413
13,549
(812,420)
(3,500)
(85,838)

(535,310)

(214,694)

Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of investments
Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments
Interest and dividends on investments

(455,295)
416,375
3,164

(654,271)
645,327
165

Net cash used by investing activities

(35,756)

(8,779)

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

(233,231)

10,599

Cash and cash equivalents - January 1

552,460

541,861

319,229 $

552,460

$

Cash provided from noncapital financing activities
Grant operating assistance
Sales and use tax collections
Other revenue
Net cash provided by noncapital financing activities
Cash flows from capital and related financing activities
Principal paid on long-term debt
Proceeds from issuance of debt
Capital grant funds and other contributions received
Proceeds from sale of assets
Acquisition and construction of capital assets
Cost of issuance
Interest paid on long-term debt
Net cash used in capital and
related financing activities

Cash and cash equivalents - December 31

$

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

40
Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
Year ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING LOSS TO NET CASH
USED IN OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating loss
Adjustment to reconcile operating loss to
net cash used in operating activities
Depreciation expense
Bad debt expense
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Decrease/(increase) in other accounts receivable
Increase in inventories
Decrease in other current assets
Increase in deferred outflow
Increase in accounts payable
Increase/(decrease) in accrued compensation and expenses
Increase/(decrease) in other accrued expenses
Increase in deferred inflow
Net cash used in operating activities
RECONCILIATION OF CASH and CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Total cash and cash equivalents

2015
$

$

$
$

2014

(535,478) $

(534,199)

152,531
21

139,045
(105)

6,537
(2,799)
6,222
(41,405)
128,862
(856)
(2,050)
4,102
(284,313) $

(4,522)
(2,236)
14,052
27,058
1,426
1,828
(357,653)

155,485 $
163,744
319,229 $

253,638
298,822
552,460

Noncash investing, capital and financing activities:
RTD had unrealized losses on investments of $34
and $47 for 2015 and 2014, respectively.
RTD issued a DUSPA bond to fund the constuction of capital
assets in 2010 for $167,954. Assets contributed were ($486) and
$13,677 for 2015 and 2014, respectively.

41
Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

42

Packet Pg. 67

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Organization
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) was created as a transportation planning agency, a political subdivision of
the State of Colorado, by an Act of the Colorado General Assembly (the Act), effective July 1969 (Title 32, Article 9,
C.R.S., 1973, as amended). In 1974, the Act was amended and RTD became an operating entity charged with the
responsibility for development, operation and maintenance of a public mass transportation system for the benefit of
the citizens of the District. The District is comprised of 15 separate districts located in Denver, Boulder, Broomfield
and Jefferson counties, and certain portions of Adams, Arapahoe, Douglas, and Weld counties.
RTD is governed by a publicly elected board of directors consisting of 15 members. Each board member is elected to
serve a term of four years by the constituents of the district in which the board member resides. As required by
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), these financial statements present RTD and its component unit.
The component unit discussed in note A.2 is included in the RTD’s reporting entity because of the significance of its
operational or financial relationship with the District.
In 1988, a Senate Bill was enacted (privatization legislation) requiring RTD to implement by March 31, 1989, a plan
to competitively bid contracts for the provision of at least 20% of RTD’s bus service by private contractors. In 1999,
the Bill was amended requiring RTD to increase this provision to at least 35% of fixed route bus service. In 2003, the
Bill was amended to require that at least 50% of RTD’s vehicular service be operated by private transit companies. In
May of 2007, the legislation was amended to provide for “a system under which up to 58% of the District’s service”
is provided by private contractors.
2. Financial Reporting Entity – Blended Component Unit
The Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority) was formed in 1987 as a nonprofit corporation on behalf of RTD
for the purpose of issuing certificates of participation in a public offering collateralized by an installment purchase
agreement with RTD. RTD’s General Manager appoints the Board of Directors of the Authority. The Authority serves
as a financing mechanism for various financing arrangements for RTD. RTD follows pronouncement 61 issued by the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board which provides guidance regarding the inclusion of component units in the
primary government’s financial statement presentation. The activity related to the underlying financial obligations of
the Authority has been included as a blended component unit in RTD’s financial statements for the years ended
December 31, 2015 and 2014. No separately audited financial statements are prepared for the Authority.
3. Basis of Accounting
The accounts of RTD are reported as a Proprietary Fund. Proprietary funds are accounted for on the flow of economic
resources measurement focus and use the accrual basis of accounting which reports all assets, deferred outflows of
resources, liabilities, deferred inflows of resources, revenues, expenses, gains and losses. Revenue is recognized when
earned and expenses are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred. Proprietary funds distinguish operating revenues
and expenses from non-operating items. Operating revenues and expenses generally result from providing services and
producing and delivering goods in connection with a proprietary fund’s principal ongoing operations. The principal
operating revenues of RTD are charges to customers for services. Operating expenses include the cost of services,
administrative expenses and asset depreciation. All revenues and expenses not meeting this definition are reported as
non-operating revenues and expenses.
It is RTD’s policy to apply GAAP in its presentation of financial statements. When both restricted and unrestricted
resources are available for use, it is RTD’s policy to use restricted resources first, then unrestricted resources as they
are needed.

43

Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4. Cash Equivalents
RTD considers all highly liquid investments, both restricted and unrestricted, with an original maturity of three
months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
5. Interest Bearing Investments
Investments with a maturity date, when purchased, of less than one year are carried at cost or amortized cost which
approximates fair value. Investments with a maturity date of more than one year from the date of purchase are
carried at fair value.
6. Inventories
Inventories consist primarily of materials and supplies used in the ordinary course of operations. Materials and
supplies are stated at cost using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method.
7. Other Current Assets
Certain payments to vendors reflect costs applicable to future accounting periods and are recorded as prepaid items.
Escrows are deposits held in escrow during the period of construction. At the time projects are completed, escrows
are generally applied toward the cost of the project or may be forfeited by RTD upon breach of contract.
8. Receivables
Accounts receivable are stated at the amount management expects to collect from outstanding balances.
Management provides for probable uncollected amounts through a charge to earnings and a credit to a valuation
allowance based on its assessment of the current status of individual accounts. Balances that are still outstanding
after management has used reasonable collection efforts are written off through a charge to the valuation allowance
and a credit to accounts receivable. Changes in the valuation allowance have not been material to the consolidated
financial statements.
9. Restricted Assets
Restricted assets are assets restricted by the covenants of long-term financial arrangements.
10. Capital Assets
Property and equipment are stated at historical cost. Capital assets are defined by RTD as assets with an initial,
individual cost of more than $5,000 and an estimated useful life in excess of one year. Maintenance and repairs are
charged to current period operating expenses and improvements are capitalized. Upon retirement or other disposition
of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts
and any gains or losses are included in non-operating revenue and expense. A pro rata share of proceeds from the sale
of property and equipment, which were acquired with federal funds, is required to be invested in a similar asset.
Interest is capitalized on assets financed with debt or certificates of participation from the date of the borrowing
until completion of the project. The amount of tax-exempt and taxable debt and certificates of participation
(externally restricted) interest to be capitalized is the difference between the interest expense and interest earnings
on issuance proceeds. The amount of other interest to be capitalized is calculated by weighted average construction
expenditures multiplied by the weighted average interest rate of the outstanding obligations.

44
Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Total interest cost of RTD consisted of the following as of December 31:
2015
Interest expense
Capitalized interest
Total interest cost

$

79,686
53,696

$ 133,382

2014
$

72,293
50,281

$ 122,574

11. Depreciation
Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets, which are as follows:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment

10–20 years
30 years
8–25 years
3–10 years

Fully depreciated assets, which are still in use, are included in the asset balances in the accompanying financial
statements. The cost of fully depreciated assets was approximately $370,683 and $446,561 at December 31, 2015
and 2014, respectively.
12. Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources
In addition to assets, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred
outflow of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred outflows of resources, represents a
consumption of net position that applies to a future period(s) and thus, will not be recognized as an outflow of
resources (expense/expenditure) until then. RTD’s deferred outflows were $77,736 and $39,736 as of December 31,
2015 and 2014, respectively.
In addition to liabilities, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred
inflows of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred inflows of resources, represents an
acquisition of net position that applies to a future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources
(revenue) until that time. RTD’s deferred inflows were $4,701 and $627 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014,
respectively.
13. Compensated Absences
RTD employees receive compensation for vacations, holidays, illness, and certain other qualifying absences. The
number of days compensated in the various categories of absence is based generally on length of service.
Compensated absences, which have been earned but not paid, have been accrued in the accompanying financial
statements.
14. Self-Insurance
Liabilities for property damage and personal injury are recognized as incurred on the basis of the estimated cost to
RTD. In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit option as part of its employee benefits program in which
costs are recognized as they are incurred.

45
Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
15. Revenue Recognition
Passenger Fares
Passenger fares are recorded as revenue at the time services are performed and revenue is collected from the
farebox. Sales of monthly passes are recorded initially as unearned revenue and recognized as income at the end of
the month for which the pass is used. Sale of ten ride and day pass tickets is recorded as income at the time of sale.
Sales of college based passes, which are valid for a specific academic semester, are recorded initially as unearned
revenue. Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the amount recognized in each month
determined by prorating the total contract amount over the semesters/quarters covered. Sales of Eco Pass and
Neighborhood Pass, which are valid through December 31 of a given year, are recorded initially as unearned revenue.
Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the total contract amount prorated evenly over the
number of months of the contract.
Sales and Use Taxes
Under the provisions of the Act, as amended, RTD levies a sales tax of 1.0% on net taxable sales made within the
District and a use tax of 1.0% on items purchased for use inside the District. As described in Note E, under the terms
of the Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A, Series 2010A, Series 2010B, Series 2012A, Series 2013 bond
resolutions, and TIFIA Sales Tax Loan, sales and use tax revenue is pledged for payment of debt service. Sales and
use taxes are collected by the State of Colorado, Department of Revenue and are remitted to a trustee who satisfies
debt service from the collections, as required under RTD’s bond and commercial paper resolutions, and remits the
balance to RTD.
Sales and use taxes are recorded as revenue by RTD in the month collected by the merchant. Sales and Use Tax
Bonds debt service will be paid from the collateralized sales and use revenues in the amount of approximately
$3,017,352 through 2050. Principal and interest paid for the current year and pledged revenues received were
$98,533.
Grants and Local Contributions
RTD receives grants from the federal government, through the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). Grants are also
awarded to RTD by state of Colorado through the Colorado Department of Transportation. The federal and state
government issues grants to RTD for operations and acquisition of property and equipment.
The amount recorded as capital grants was $157,616 and $171,549 in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Operating
assistance grant revenue was $73,383 and $75,544 in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Other contribution revenue
was $11,697 and $34,882 in 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Grants and local contributions are recorded as revenue by RTD once all applicable eligibility requirements are met.
16. Use of Estimates
The financial statements contained herein have been prepared in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). GAAP are uniform minimum standards of and guidelines to financial accounting and
reporting. GAAP establishes appropriate measurement and classification criteria for financial reporting. Adherence to
GAAP provides a reasonable degree of comparability among the financial reports of state and local governmental
units. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves the use of management’s estimates.
These estimates are based upon management’s best judgments, after considering past and current events and
assumptions about future events. Actual results may differ from estimates.

46
Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
17. Pensions
For purposes of measuring the net pension liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources
related to pensions, and pension expense, information about the pension plan’s fiduciary net position and additions
to/deductions from the plan’s fiduciary net position have been determined on the same basis as they are reported by
the plan. For this purpose, benefit payments (including refunds of employee contributions) are recognized when due
and payable in accordance with the benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value.
18. GASB 68 – Classification
During the year ended December 31, 2015, RTD implemented the provisions of GASB Statement No.68 (GASB 68),
Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions, as amended by GASB Statement No. 71, Pension Transition for
Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date. GASB 68 requires governments providing defined benefit
pensions to recognize the long-term obligation for pension benefits as a liability, and to more comprehensively and
comparably measure the annual costs of pension benefits. This Statement also enhances accountability and
transparency through revised note disclosures and new required supplementary information.
19. Reinstatement of Prior Year Net Position
Net Position has been restated as required by implementation of GASB 68 as discussed in note 18 above.
Beginning net position as previously reported
December 31, 2014
Prior period adjustment – Implementation of GASB 68
Net pension liability (measurement date)
Net position as restated, December 31, 2014

$3,181,074
(186,335)
$2,994,739

47
Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS
Deposits
RTD’s deposits are subject to the State of Colorado’s Public Deposit Protection Act (PDPA). Under this act, all uninsured
public deposits at qualified institutions are fully collateralized with pledged collateral which is held in custody by any
Federal Reserve Bank or branch thereof, or held in escrow by some other bank in a manner as the banking Commissioner
shall prescribe by rule and regulation, or may be segregated from the other assets of the eligible public depository and held
in its own trust department. Colorado’s PDPA requires that pledged collateral to be held is clearly identified as being
security maintained or pledged for the aggregate amount of public deposits accepted and held on deposit by the eligible
public depository. The depository has the right at any time to make substitutions of eligible collateral maintained or
pledged and is at all times entitled to collect and retain all income derived from those investments without restrictions.
As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, RTD had bank deposits of $44,367 and $43,749 collateralized with
securities held by the pledging financial institutions’ trust department or agent but not in RTD’s name.
Investments
At December 31, 2015, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the following:
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes
Total

Fair Value
$ 286,411
104,662
2,802
213,026
82,732
23,836
$ 713,469

<6 Months
$ 47,137
20,492
203,086
23,836
$ 294,551

6-12 Months
$ 32,726
38,508
9,940
7,031
$ 88,205

1-5 Years
$ 206,548
45,662
2,802
75,701
$ 330,713

At December 31, 2014, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the following:
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Total

Fair Value
$ 157,378
249,051
180,613
87,507
$ 674,549

<6 Months
$ 21,834
2,105
163,508
56,781
$ 244,228

6-12 Months
$ 66,841
32,095
17,105
13,107
$ 129,148

1-5 Years
$ 68,703
214,851
17,619
$ 301,173

Interest Rate Risk, as a means of limiting its exposure to fair value losses arising from rising interest rates, RTD’s
investment policy limits maturities of individual investment securities to 5 years, unless otherwise authorized by RTD’s
Board of Directors.
Credit Risk, investment transactions are made in accordance with the Colorado Revised Statutes (CRS) 24-75-601, et
seq.
The types of investments, which are authorized by RTD’s internal investment policy, include the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Obligations of the United States government.
Obligations of the United States government agencies and United States government sponsored corporations.
Municipal notes or bonds that are an obligation of any state of the United States.
Corporate Bonds that are an obligation of corporations or financial institutions organized and operating in the
United States.

48
Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
5. Commercial paper.
6. Time Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposits.
7. Bankers’ Acceptances Notes.
8. Repurchase agreements.
9. Money market funds.
10. Local government Investment Pools.
11. Any other Investment permitted under CRS 24-75-601 et seq.
Credit ratings of RTD’s portfolio, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, are exhibited in the table below. Portfolio holdings
adhere to RTD’s investment policy and applicable statute. Investments rated AAA, AA and A are from the Standard &
Poor’s rating service. Investments rated A-1+/P-1 are from the Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rating services,
respectively.
At December 31, 2015, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings consisted of the following:
Investment Ratings
AAA (Standard & Poor’s)
AA (Standard & Poor’s)
A
A-1+/P-1
Total:

Market Value
$ 414,481
85,962
213,026
$ 713,469

At December 31, 2014, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings consisted of the following:
Investment Ratings
AAA (Standard & Poor’s)
AA (Standard & Poor’s)
A
A-1+/P-1
Total:

Market Value
$ 406,613
64,773
22,550
180,613
$ 674,549

Concentration of Credit Risk, it is the policy of RTD to diversify its investment portfolio. Assets held in the investment
funds shall be diversified to eliminate the risk of loss resulting from over-concentration of assets in a specific maturity, a
specific issue or a specific class of securities. The asset allocation in the portfolio should, however, be flexible, depending
upon the outlook for the economy and the securities markets.

49
Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
RTD’s investment policy outlines the following maximum exposure limits for unrestricted investments. As of December
31, 2015, RTD was in compliance with these limits. As of December 31, 2014, RTD was in compliance with limitations
set out in RTD’s previous investment policy limitations.
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S Agencies 1
Municipal Bonds of a
Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds of a
non-Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds, Short
Term
Pre-Refunded Muni Bonds
Corporate bonds
Commercial Paper
Time Deposits/CD
Bankers Acceptances
Repurchase agreements
Local Government Investment
Pools
Money market funds

Maximum
Portfolio %
100%
75%
20%

Maximum
Issue %
100%
25%
3%

Maturity
Restrictions
5 years
5 years
5 years

Rating
Restrictions
N/A
AA
A

20%

3%

5 years

AA

20%

3%

5 years

“A-1 or “MIG 1”

40%
20%
40%
10%
20%
50%
100%

5%
3%
3%
3%
3%
10%
50%

3 years
3 years
270 days
1 year
1 year
90 days
N/A

AA
AA
A-1/P1/F1
AA
AA
AA
AAAm

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

1

In the event that one or more nationally recognized statistical rating agency rates such Agency obligations below the highest rating category, but no
lower than one of the two highest rating categories, RTD’s funds may continue to be invested in Agencies if such investments satisfy the requirements
of CRS 24.75.601.1 (m) which limits the maturity from the date of settlement to three years, provided that the book value limits of CRS 24.75.601.1
(m) (II) shall not apply. Rather, the diversification limit shall be set as follows: no more than 75% of the portfolio may be invested in Agencies, with any
more than 25% being invested in any one Agency.

Proceeds from the issuance of RTD’s obligations are invested in accordance with legal documentation governing the
transaction, notwithstanding any provisions of RTD’s investment policy to the contrary, and do not fall within the maximum
exposure limits listed above.
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, RTD had $692,547 and $883,409 of cash and investments that were restricted under
the provisions of bond agreements.

50
Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

2.11.D.a

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

NOTE C - OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
Other Current Assets consist of:
2015
Prepaid expenses
Eagle P3 construction escrow
City of Arvada escrow
Park Creek Metro escrow
Other constuction escrow
Assets held for sale
Total Other Current Assets

$

$

4,914
23,861
2,606
486
273
2,418
34,558

2014
$

$

3,930
30,976
2,606
577
273
2,418
40,780

51
Packet Pg. 76

2.11.D.a

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2015 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
2015
12/31/2014
Additions
Capital assets not being depreciated:
Land
$
Construction in progress
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
Capital assets being depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated

303,432
2,754,062

$

86,831
870,055

2015
Deletions

$

13
298,835

Balances
12/31/2015

$

390,250
3,325,282

3,057,494

956,886

298,848

3,715,532

2,183,870
480,330
857,745

11,411
11,128
134,253

70,318

2,195,281
491,458
921,680

148,138

55,944

2,132

201,950

3,670,083

212,736

72,450

3,810,369

Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
622,559
82,606
188
Buildings
183,118
12,981
Revenue earning equipment
399,166
42,147
70,058
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
109,279
14,797
2,114
Total accumulated depreciation
1,314,122
152,531
72,360
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
2,355,961
60,205
90
Capital assets, net
$
5,413,455 $ 1,017,091 $
298,938
Depreciation expense was $152,531 and $139,045 for years 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

NOTE D – CAPITAL ASSETS

704,977
196,099
371,255
121,962
1,394,293

$

2,416,076
6,131,608

52
Packet Pg. 77

2.11.D.a

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2014 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
2014
12/31/2013
Additions
Capital assets not being depreciated:
Land
$
Construction in progress
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
Capital assets being depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated
Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total accumulated depreciation
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
Capital assets, net

$

265,577
2,466,091

$

42,986
862,701

2014
Deletions

$

5,131
574,730

Balances
12/31/2014

$

303,432
2,754,062

2,731,668

905,687

579,861

3,057,494

1,981,746
257,481
798,642

208,677
222,983
91,264

6,553
134
32,161

2,183,870
480,330
857,745

143,790

8,820

4,472

148,138

3,181,659

531,744

43,320

3,670,083

543,471
171,842
400,695

83,968
11,401
30,509

4,880
125
32,038

622,559
183,118
399,166

100,584
1,216,592

13,167
139,045

4,472
41,515

109,279
1,314,122

1,965,067
4,696,735

392,699
1,298,386

1,805
581,666

2,355,961
5,413,455

$

$

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

NOTE D – CAPITAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)

$

53
Packet Pg. 78

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT
Long-term debt is comprised of the following as of December 31:
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially on
November 1 of each year through 2036, issued with coupons between from
4.00% to 4.50% payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year;
including discount of ($1,069) and ($1,121) for 2015 and 2014, respectively. In
2014, The District did a Modification and Exchange on these Bonds, it resulted
in a premium with an ending balance of $16,224 and $17,003 for 2015 and
2014, respectively.
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially on November 1 of
each year through 2024, issued with a 5.25% coupon, payable semiannually on
May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of $4,937 and $5,496
for 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially on November 1 of
each year through 2017, issued with coupons between 3.00% and 5.00%,
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium
of $1,523 and $2,353 for 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Subordinate Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010, Denver Union Station
Project Authority (DUSPA) with principal and interest due on February 1 and
August 1 of every year through February 2040, with a coupon of 5.85%.
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially on November 1 of
2037 and 2038, issued with coupon of 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1
and November 1 of each year, including premium of $2,039 and $2,128 for
2015 and 2014, respectively.
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds Taxable (Direct Pay Build America Bonds),
Series 2010B, due serially on November 1 of 2046 through 2050, issued with
coupon of 5.844%, payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each
year.
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A, due serially on November 1 of
2023 and 2037, issued with coupon of 3.0% and 5.0%, payable semiannually on
May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of $62,167 and
$65,014 for 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially on November 1 of
2013 and 2021, issued with coupon of .25% and 2.207%, payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of $425 and $498
for 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially on
November 1 of 2027 and 2036, issued with coupon of 4.25% and 5.0%,
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium
of $40,682 and $42,635 for 2015 and 2014, respectively
TIFIA Sales Tax FasTracks Loan, due on May 1 of 2025 thru 2045, loaned with
coupon of 3.14% and interest capitalized thru November 1, 2020. Payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year from 2021 thru 2045.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2005A, under a lease agreement for
acquisition of light rail vehicles, payments are due semiannually on June 1 and
December 1 to 2015, issued with coupons between 3.50% and 5.00%, including
premium of $0 and $151 for 2015 and 2014, respectively.

2015

2014

$ 374,925

$ 376,193

74,762

75,321

14,728

21,688

154,246

157,064

81,179

81,268

300,000

300,000

537,102

539,949

61,420

78,443

245,502

247,455

296,284

212,282

-

5,336

54
Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
2015
Certificates of Participation Taxable Refunding Obligations, Series 2007A, under a
lease agreement for acquisition of transit buses and vehicles, payments are due
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2021, issued with a 5.535% coupon.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Amended and Restated Series 2002A, under
a lease agreement for acquisition of transit vehicles and facilities, payments are
due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2022, issued with coupons
between 4.00% and 5.00%, including premium of $3,675 and $4,206 for 2015
and 2014, respectively.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2010A, under a lease purchase
agreement for acquisition of light rail vehicles, construct, install and improve
certain equipment and other capital projects. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2031, issued with coupons between 3.00% and
5.50%, including premium of $2,570 and $2,789 for 2015 and 2014,
respectively.
Certificates of Participation Taxable (Direct Pay Build America Bonds), Obligations,
Series 2010B, under a lease purchase agreement for acquisition of light rail
vehicles, construct, install and improve certain equipment and other capital
projects. Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 through
2040, issued with a coupon of 7.672%.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2013A, as Lessee Under an Annually
Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2027, issued with coupons between 2.00% and
5.00%, including premium of $29,942 and $32,566 for 2015 and 2014,
respectively.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2014A, as Lessee Under an Annually
Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2044, issued with coupons between 4.125% and
5.00%, including premium of $24,144 and $24,993 for 2015 and 2014,
respectively.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2015A, as Lessee Under an Annually
Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2040, issued with coupons between 3.25% and
5.00%, including premium of $17,980 and $0 for 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Less current portion

$

8,910

2014
$

10,135

85,115

95,206

194,315

199,074

100,000

100,000

243,877

253,901

465,059

465,908

211,895

-

3,449,319

3,219,223

( 61,698)

( 54,348)

$ 3,387,621

$ 3,164,875

55
Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
The Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are payable from and secured by RTD’s sales and use tax revenue. RTD is required to
maintain certain minimum deposits, as defined in the Indenture of Trust, to meet debt service requirements. Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds debt service requirements to maturity are as follows:
Year ending December
31,
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021-2025
2026-2030
2031-2035
2036-2040
2041-2045
2046-2050

Principal
27,043
27,573
28,212
20,818
21,705
132,365
381,757
473,087
377,182
223,478
____ 300,000
____$2,013,220
$

TIFIA Capitalized
Interest
$
3,212
16,062
16,062
12,849
_______
______$ 48,185

Interest
$ 83,490
82,820
81,932
80,930
80,044
438,599
376,857
268,714
162,929
124,933
____ 54,636
____$1,835,884

Total
$ 110,533
110,393
110,144
101,748
101,749
574,176
774,676
757,863
552,960
348,411
____ 354,636
____$3,897,289

Certificates of Participation are issued by Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc., a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued
Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being used to acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used
by RTD as well as for construction of the North Metro commuter rail line. RTD leases the equipment acquired and elements
constructed with the proceeds from the Certificates under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. For financial
reporting purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates as its own obligations.
Annual repayment requirements on the Certificates to maturity are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021-2025
2026-2030
2031-2035
2036-2040
2041-2044

Principal
$ 34,655
31,325
37,440
47,915
57,675
314,845
200,180
198,180
190,265
118,380
$ 1,230,860

Interest
$ 62,373
60,804
59,220
57,172
54,606
226,430
156,912
108,259
54,309
11,677
$ 851,762

Total
$
97,028
92,129
96,660
105,087
112,281
541,275
357,092
306,439
244,574
130,057
$ 2,082,622

56
Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
Changes in Long-Term Liabilities
Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2015, was as follows:

Certificates of Participation
Issuance premiums and discounts
Total Bonds-COPs Payable
Net Pension Liability
Other liabilities*

Balance
12/31/2014
$1,955,657
1,064,855
198,711
3,219,223
276,116
150,186

2015
Additions
$ 84,001
193,915
18,366
296,282
36,499
109,205

2015
Reductions
$ 26,438
27,910
11,838
66,186
2,620

Balance
12/31/2015
$2,013,220
1,230,860
205,239
3,449,319
321,615
247,771

Due Within
One Year
$ 27,043
34,655
61,698
-

Total long-term liabilities**

$3,645,525

$441,986

$ 68,806

$4,018,705

$ 61,698

Sales Tax Revenue Bonds

*Other liabilities consist of Eagle P3 finance charge liability, 2007 Sales Tax arbitrage call modification liability and the CCD Aviation Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA). ** Beginning year balance (as restated).

Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2014, was as follows:

Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
Certificates of Participation
Issuance premiums and discounts
Total Bonds-COPs Payable
Other liabilities*

Balance
12/31/2013
$1,895,180
655,230
167,189
2,717,599
191,626

2014
Additions
$ 86,189
440,915
42,486
569,590
34,483

2014
Reductions
$ 25,712
31,290
10,964
67,966
-

Balance
12/31/2014
$1,955,657
1,064,855
198,711
3,219,223
226,109

Due Within
One Year
$ 26,438
27,910
54,348
-

Total long-term liabilities

$2,909,225

$ 604,073

$ 67,966

$3,445,332

$ 54,348

*Other liabilities consist of Net Pension Obligation liability reflecting the cumulative differences between pension cost and employer’s contribution to the
plan, Eagle P3 finance charge liability, 2007 Sales Tax arbitrage call modification liability and the CCD Aviation Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA).

In prior years, RTD defeased certain obligations by placing the proceeds of new obligations in an irrevocable trust to provide
for all future service payments on the old obligations. Accordingly, the trust account assets and the liability for the defeased
obligations are not included in these financial statements. Outstanding as of December 31, 2015 are the following amounts
which are considered defeased:
2006A ST FT Bonds
2007A ST FT Bonds

FasTracks Facilities and Equipment
FasTracks Facilities and Equipment

$ 368,384
$ 244,113

In January 2015, RTD drew the final $75,000 and recognized $9,001 of capitalized interest from the Transportation
Infrastructure and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan. Under the TIFIA loan authorization, RTD drew a total of $280,000 in 2013
thru 2015 and recognized $16,284 of capitalized interest. The draws from the TIFIA loan were used to pay for “Eligible
Project Costs” on RTD’s Eagle Project. The interest rate on the TIFIA loan is 3.14% with interest payments anticipated to
begin in 2021 and final maturity expected in 2045. The TIFIA loan will be used to complement the other sources of debt,
resulting in a lower cost of funding than would have otherwise been available in the capital markets. The first TIFIA draw of
$125,000 was made in 2013. The TIFIA loan is secured by a pledge of RTD’s 0.4% FasTracks sales and use tax.

57
Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
In August 2015, RTD issued its Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A in the par amount of $193,915 with an average
interest rate of 4.60% to be used to finance the acquisition of equipment, vans, buses and light rail vehicles. Certain
proceeds were also used to fund a debt service reserve fund for the certificates and pay for related costs of issuance. The
final maturity of the certificates is in 2040.
In July 2014, RTD issued its Certificates of Participation, Series 2014A in the par amount of $440,915 with an average
interest rate of 4.46% for the purpose of funding the construction of the North Metro Rail Line from Denver Union Station to
approximately 124th Avenue. Certain proceeds were also used to fund a debt service reserve fund for the certificates and
pay for related costs of issuance. The final maturity of the certificates is in 2044.
In December 2014, RTD entered into a Modification and Exchange agreement with Citibank N.A. who owned certain of the
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A. The agreement modified the call dates on the
affected bonds from November 1, 2017 to November 1, 2024. The affected bonds which were all owned by Citibank N.A.
were as follows:

Maturity
11/1/2030
11/1/2031
11/1/2032
11/1/2033
11/1/2035

Outstanding
Principal Amount
$ 56,375,000
33,915,000
36,535,000
64,300,000
70,220,000

Percentage of
Maturity
Owned by
Citibank
100.00%
100.00
100.00
52.88
85.45

Principal Amount
Owned by Citibank
$ 56,375,000
33,915,000
36,535,000
34,000,000
60,000,000

Original CUSIP
for 2007A
Bonds Owned by
Citibank
759136NM2
759136NN0
759136NP5
759136NQ3
759136NS9

New CUSIP for
Amended Bonds
759136NSQ8
759136NSR6
759136NSS4
759136NST2
759136NSV7

The 2007A bonds that are not owned by Citibank N.A. were not affected by this Modification and Exchange agreement.
Proceeds of the agreement were $17,068 of which $552 was used for costs and RTD accrued a long term arbitrage liability
of $2,620.

58
Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F– EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
Employee Retirement Plans
RTD maintains two single-employer defined benefit pension plans and one defined contribution plan for substantially all fulltime employees:
•
•
•

ATU 1001 Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Contribution

Plans are administered by a pension board and issues audited financial statements, which include financial information for
that plan. Those financial statements may be obtained from the plan administrators
Regional Transportation District
Salaried Employees Pension Trust
7000 North Broadway, Building 106
Denver, Colorado 80221

RTD ATU 1001 Pension Plan
2821 S. Parker Road
Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602

ATU 1001 Pension Plan – Defined Benefit
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 Pension Plan was established pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the Union. This plan covers substantially all full-time union-represented
employees in accordance with the union agreement. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered
by Compusys, Inc.
Benefits Provided
All benefits are paid in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity unless this form is rejected by the participant and the
spouse.
Normal retirement benefits under the Plan are paid to participants who have attained age 65 and have been with the Plan for
ten years. The benefit amount is based on final average earnings, years of employment under this Plan and age at date of
retirement.
Early retirement, effective January 1, 1992, any Participant who has accumulated 20 or more years of credited service and
terminated employment prior to attaining age 50, will be entitled to an early retirement benefit starting on the first day of
any month after he has attained age 50. The Plan was amended effective January 1, 2011. The years of credited service
needed to qualify for a normal retirement benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier for both the
normal and early retirement was revised.
Death benefits state if an Employee, who is not eligible for a vested benefit or not eligible to retire, should die, his beneficiary
will be paid the accumulated employee contributions plus interest. Upon the death of a pensioner, a funeral benefit of $2,000
will be paid in a lump sum to the pensioners designated beneficiary

59
Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Disability benefits, an individual who becomes totally disabled prior to age 65 and retires from active employment with RTD
as a direct result of being totally disabled is entitled to a disability retirement benefit provided he has worked for at least ten
years for RTD in covered employment or any of its predecessors. An individual will be considered totally disabled upon
receipt of a disability award from Social Security. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify
for a disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Deferred Vested Retirement Benefit, an individual who terminated employment on or after January 1, 1993, for any reason
other than retirement, will be entitled to a deferred vested benefit at age 65 provided he had worked for at least ten years in
covered employment for RTD or any of its predecessors. A participant is entitled to deferred, vested benefits as early as age
50 if he has worked for at least 20 years in covered employment and terminates active employment on or after attaining age
50. If an individual with 20 or more years of service terminated employment prior to age 50, benefits will be payable at any
time after age 50. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a deferred vested retirement
disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Benefit structure for participants hired on or after January 1, 2011. The following changes are included:
•
•
•
•
•
•

The benefit multiplier is changed from 2.5% to 1% with a new benefit schedule. (Priority 1).
Regular retirement is changed from age 55 with 20 years of service to age 60 with 20 years of service.
Sick and vacation payouts are no longer included in the pension benefit calculation. (Priority 2).
Vesting is changed from 5 years to 10 years.
Interest on employee contributions is changed from 5% to 3%.
The maximum service included in the benefit calculation is reduced from 30 years to 25 years. (Priority 3).

A “Trigger Policy” has also been provided that will partially rescind the modified benefit structure when certain Plan funding
benchmarks are achieved. If the total Actuarial Required Contribution (ARC) is less than 11% of payroll, pension benefits
would be restored in the order of priority listed above. The "Trigger" remains in effect until such time as the 11% ARC is
restored.
Employees covered by the benefit terms for the FYE December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014 measurement date), pension
plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving Benefits
Inactive employee entitled to but not yet receiving benefits

1,687
1,410
1,228

Total

4,325

1

Based on December 31, 2014 actuarial valuation demographic information

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 526,135
214,463

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

311,672
40.76%

60
Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Net Pension Liability:
Valuation Date:
December 31, 2014
Notes
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for
implementation the following year.
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization Method
Level Percentage of Payroll, Open
Remaining Amortization
30 years
Period
Asset Valuation Method
5-Year smoothed market, 0% corridor
Inflation
3.00%
Salary Increases
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
Investment Rate of Return
7.00%
Retirement Age
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last
updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
Healthy Mortality
RP-2000 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
Disabled Mortality
RP-2000 Disabled Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
Other Information:
There were no benefit changes during the year.
Single Discount Rate
Projected benefit payments are required to be discounted to their actuarial present values using a Single Discount Rate that
reflects (1) a long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments (to the extent that the plan’s fiduciary net
position is projected to be sufficient to pay benefits) and (2) tax-exempt municipal bond rate based on an index of 20-year
general obligation bonds with an average AA credit rating as of the measurement date (to the extent that the plan’s
projected fiduciary net position is not sufficient to pay benefits). For the purpose of this valuation, the expected rate of
return on pension plan investments is 7.00%; the municipal bond rate is 3.65% (based on the weekly rate closest to but not
later than the measurement date of the “state & local bonds” rate from Federal Reserve statistical release(H.15)); and the
resulting Single Discount Rate is 5.00%.
Development of the Single Discount Rate
Single Discount Rate 5.00 %
Long-Term Expected Rate of Investment Return 7.00 %
Long-Term Municipal Bond Rate* 3.65 %
Last year ending December 31 in the 2015 to 2114 projection period for which projected benefit payments are fully funded
2034
Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Real Estate
Domestic Fixed Income
International Fixed Income
Commodities
Private Equity

30 Year Long-Term Expected
Real Rate of Return
5%
8%
3%
1%
1%
5%
10%

Target Asset Allocation
40%
15%
5%
15%
10%
5%
10%

30 Year Inflation Assumption
Actuarial Return Assumption

2%
7%

61
Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Changes in Net Pension Liability

Balances at 12/31/2014
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Contributions-employee
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2015

Total Pension
Liability
(a)
$
488,394

Increase (Decrease)
Plan Fiduciary Net
Position
(b)
$
213,008

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
275,386

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(24,312)
37,742
526,136

10,758
3,586
11,779
(24,312)
(355)
1,456
214,464

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(10,758)
(3,586)
(11,779)
355
36,286
311,672

$

$

$

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to the Single Discount Rate Assumption
Regarding the sensitivity of the net pension liability to changes in the Single Discount Rate, the following presents the plans’
net pension liability, calculated using a Single Discount Rate of 5.00%, as well as what the Plan’s net pension liability
would be if it were calculated using a S i n g l e D iscount R ate that is 1-percentage-point lower (4.00%) or 1percentage-point higher (6.00%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

1% Decrease
(4.00%)
$ 375,343

Current Discount
Rate (5.00%)
$ 311,672

1% Increase
(6.00%)
$ 258,200

Contribution
Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires
RTD to contribute 13% and the employee to contribute 5% of the employee’s qualifying wages. RTD has included the full
amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the represented pension plan, in accordance with financial
reporting requirements. RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.

62
Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2015 the employer recognized pension expense of $19,547. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $27,498 of resources related from pensions from the following resources.
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$
18,291
2,217
11,092
$
31,600

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions subsequent to the measurement date*
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
4,102
$
4,102

*The amount reported as deferred outflows of resources resulting from employer contributions subsequent to the
measurement date will be recognized as a reduction in the Pension Expense for the year ending 2016.
Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended
December 31,
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total

$

$

19,860
6,530
554
554
27,498

Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan provides coverage for all full-time salaried employees
whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by Fringe
Benefit Services, Inc.
Benefits Provided
Normal retirement eligibility age is 65 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit 2.5% of average final
compensation times credited service. Early retirement age is 55 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit if retire
or terminate from active status on or after age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/30 for each year less than age
60. If terminate from active status prior to age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/15 for each year between
ages 60 and 65, and 1/30 for each year less than age 60.

63
Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Disability retirement is five years of credited service, totally and permanently disabled, and entitled to a Social Security
disability award; monthly benefit unreduced normal retirement benefit, payable upon approval for Social Security disability.
Pre-retirement death eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit survivor pension assuming the participant
retired the day before death with a 50% Joint and Survivor Benefit. If death occurs before age 55, payment is deferred until
the participant would have reached age 55 and is reduced for early commencement. Survivors of married participants may
elect to receive an annuity or a lump sum distribution. Survivors of unmarried participants will receive a lump sum
distribution if death occurs while the participant is actively employed with RTD. The lump sum is the present value of the
survivor’s pension above but determined as if the participant was married and the spouse was the same age as the
participant.
Termination eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit if not eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or if elected within six months, a lump sum equal to the present value of the age 65 accrued benefits,
payable in lieu of all other benefits in the Plan. Employee monthly benefit if eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or a lump sum equal to the present value of an immediate accrued benefit, payable in lieu of all other
benefits in the Plan.
Forms of annuity payments for normal form are 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity if married, Single Life Annuity otherwise.
Optional Forms are 25%, 50%, 66-2/3% or 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity with 5-year or 10-year Certain and Life Annuity
(60 or 120 months guaranteed) Social Security Adjustment (Age 62 or Age 65) Lump Sum.
Credited service is one year for each calendar year of 1,000 hours of service (except years and completed months in the year
of transfer). Credited service applies to vesting and service for retirement benefit eligibility. Average final compensation is
average of participant's highest consecutive 36 months of compensation in the last 120 months of credited service
immediately preceding the calendar month in which retirement occurs. Compensation excludes bonuses, severance pay, longterm disability pay and other extra compensation paid in the Fiscal Year. Compensation includes deferrals made to the RTD
Deferred Compensation Plan and RTD Flexible Spending Account Plan, overtime, shift differentials, leave pay and salary
reductions.
Employee covered by the benefit terms for the FYE December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014 measurement date), pension
plan membership consisted of the following1:

1
2

Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving
Benefits
Inactive Plan Members Entitled to But Not Yet Receiving
Benefits2

382

Total

716

220
114

Based on January 1, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information
Includes transfer outs

64
Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 139,953
130,010

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

9,943
92.90%

Actuarial Assumptions
The total pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation with date of January 1, 2014, using the following
actuarial assumptions applied to all periods included in the measurement with a liability roll forward to December 31, 2014
for disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015:
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return

3.00%
3.75% - 8.75%
7.50%, net of investment expenses

The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a building-block method in
which best- estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of pension plan investment
expense and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-term
expected rate of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation percentage
including expected inflation. Best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for each major asset class included in the
pension plan’s target asset allocation as of the December 31, 2014 measurement date.
Mortality Rates for Annuities (60% Election Assumption)
Healthy: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants. Disabled: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree
Mortality Tables
Mortality Rates for Lump Sums (40% Election Assumption)
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male / 30% female for participants and 30% male /
70% female for beneficiaries.
The actuarial assumptions used in the January 1, 2014 valuation were based on the results of an actuarial experience
study covering the period January 1, 2009 - December 31, 2013.

65
Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Discount Rate
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 7.50%. The projection of cash flows used to determine
the discount rate assumed that RTD contributions will be equal to the actuarially determined contribution rate for the
applicable fiscal years. Based on those assumptions, the pension plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be
available to make all projected future benefit payments of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected rate
of return on pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the total
pension liability.
The below table reflects assumed long-term expected real rates of return over a 30-year horizon upon which the disclosure
is based:
Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Fixed Income
Real Estate
Cash

Long-Term Expected Real Rate
of Return
8.7%
9.7%
1.5%
10.1%
N/A

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2014
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2015

Target Asset Allocation
50%
10%
30%
10%
N/A

Total Pension
Liability
(a)
$
125,723

Increase (Decrease)
Plan Fiduciary Net
Position
(b)
$
124,993

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
730

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(7,034)
14,230
139,953

3,100
9,078
(7,034)
(127)
5,017
130,010

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(3,100)
(9,078)
127
9,213
9,943

$

$

$

66
Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate
The following presents the net pension liability of the Plan, calculated using the discount rate of 7.50%, as well as what
the Plan’s net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point lower
(6.50%) or 1-percentage-point higher (8.50%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability/Assets

1% Decrease
(6.50%)
$ 22,167

Current Discount
Rate (7.50%)
$ 9,943

1% Increase
(8.50%)
$ (638)

Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2015 the employer recognized pension expense of $2,508. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $9,805 of resources related from pensions from the following resources.

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions subsequent to the measurement date*
Total

Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$ 1,592
4,998
115
3,100
$ 9,805

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
$
-

*The amount reported as deferred outflows of resources resulting from employer contributions subsequent to the
measurement date will be recognized as a reduction in the Pension Expense for the year ending 2016.
Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total

$ 5,765
2,665
1,347
28
$ 9,805

67
Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Defined Benefit Plan Descriptions – 2014 Presentation Prior GASB 68 Implementation
RTD maintains two single-employer defined benefit pension plans. The Regional Transportation District Salaried Employees’
Pension Plan (the RTD Plan) covers all non-union, full-time salaried employees whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008.
The Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Pension Plan (the Union Plan) was
established pursuant to collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the Union. This plan covers substantially all fulltime union-represented employees in accordance with the union agreement. The Board of Directors of each plan has the
authority for establishing and amending benefits and funding policy. Each plan is administered by a pension board and issues
audited financial statements, which include financial information for that plan. Those financial statements may be obtained
from the plan:
Regional Transportation District
Salaried Employees Pension Trust
7000 North Broadway, Building 106
Denver, Colorado 80221

RTD ATU 1001 Pension Plan
2821 S. Parker Road
Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602

The RTD Plan provides retirement benefits to RTD salaried employees who retire at or after age 55 with at least five years
of service. These employees are entitled to a single lump sum distribution or an annual retirement benefit, payable monthly
for life. The normal retirement benefit is equal to 2.5% of average final compensation to which a participant is entitled on
the day the participant retires, multiplied by the number of years of credited service. The RTD Board adopted amendment No.
8, effective January 1, 2008, in which salaried employee new hires shall not be eligible to participate in the RTD Plan.
The Union Plan provides retirement benefits to employees who retire at or after a certain age with at least a specified
number of years of service. These employees are entitled to a percentage of their final average earnings based on age and
credited service at retirement.
The following schedule (derived from the most recent actuarial valuation reports) reflects membership for the plans as of
January 1, 2014:
Active employees
Pensioners
Inactive vests
Total

RTD Plan

Union Plan

382
222
112
716

1,581
1,363
1,226
4,170

Funding Policy
Contributions to the RTD Plan are actuarially determined. RTD employees are not required to contribute to the RTD Plan.
Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires
RTD to contribute 8% and the employee to contribute 3% of the employee’s qualifying wages. Effective March 1, 2013 RTD
is to contribute 12% and the employee to contribute 4%. RTD has no liability to the Union Plan beyond its contributions.
Funding Status
Based on actuarial valuations performed as of January 1, 2014, the RTD Plan had unfunded actuarial accrued liabilities of
$19,890 and the Union Plan had unfunded actuarial accrued liabilities of $218,837. The actuarial value of assets for both
plans is determined by spreading gains and losses over a five-year period.

68
Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Schedule of Funding Progress – RTD Plan

Actuarial
Valuation
Date
1/1/14

Actuarial Value
of Assets
$ 113,743

Actuarial
Accrued Liability
$ 133,633

Funding Excess
(Deficiency)
$ (19,890)

Funding Ratio
85.12%

Unfunded
Annual
Actuarial
Covered
Liability as % of
Payroll
Covered Payroll
$ 31,193
(63.76%)

Funding Ratio
48.66%

Unfunded
Annual
Actuarial
Covered
Liability as % of
Payroll
Covered Payroll
$ 81,040
(270.03%)

Schedule of Funding Progress – Union Plan
Actuarial
Valuation
Date
1/1/14

Actuarial Value
of Assets
$ 207,435

Actuarial
Accrued Liability
$ 426,272

Funding Excess
(Deficiency)
$ (218,837)

The schedule of funding progress presented as Required Supplementary Information following the notes to the financial
statements provides multi-year trend information about whether the actuarial value of plan assets is increasing or decreasing
over time relative to the actual accrued liability.
Three-year Trend Information – RTD Plan
Annual pension cost
(APC)
RTD Pension Plan
Year-end December 31,
2012
2013
2014

Percentage of APC
Contributed

Net Pension
Obligation

$ 3,372
4,345
5,538

85%
71%
56%

$ 3,892
5,137
7,575

2014
$ 5,682
385
(529)
5,538
3,100
2,438
5,137
$ 7,575

2013
$ 4,444
292
(391)
4,345
3,100
1,245
3,892
$ 5,137

2012
$ 3,450
254
(332)
3,372
2,865
507
3,385
$ 3,892

Annual Pension Cost and Net Pension Obligation
RTD Pension Plan NPO Liability Disclosure
Actuarially Determined Contribution (ARC)
Interest on NPO
Adjustment
Annual Pension Cost (APC)
Contribution Made
Increase NPO
NPO Beginning of year
NPO Ending of year

69
Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)
Three-Year Trend Information – Union Plan
ATU 1001 Pension Plan
Year-end December 31,
2012
2013
2014

Annual pension cost (APC)
$ 19,679
21,649
19,530

Annual Pension Cost and Net Pension Obligation
ATU 1001 Pension Plan NPO Liability Disclosure
Actuarially Determined Contribution (ARC)
Interest on NPO
Adjustment
Annual Pension Cost (APC)
Contribution Made
Increase NPO
NPO Beginning of year

Percentage of APC
Contributed
Net Pension Obligation
34%
$ 47,006
45%
58,944
52%
68,348

2014
$ 18,752
4,112
(3,334)
19,530
10,126
9,404
58,944
$ 68,348

NPO Ending of year

2013
$ 21,029
3,278
(2,658)
21,649
9,711
11,938
47,006
$ 58,944

2012
$ 19,234
2,351
(1,906)
19,679
6,658
13,021
33,985
$47,006

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions
RTD annual pension cost for the current year, based on actuarial valuation plans performed as of January 1, 2014, and
related information for each plan, is as follows:

Contribution rates RTD
Contribution rates Employees
Annual pension cost
Contributions made
Actuarial valuation date
Actuarial cost method
Amortization method
Remaining amortization period
Asset valuation method
Actuarial assumptions:
Inflation/Payroll Growth
Investment rate of return
Projected salary increases

RTD Pension Plan
ATU 1001 Pension Plan
$3,100/year
12%
4%
$ 5,538
$ 19,530
$ 3,100
$ 10,126
January 1, 2014
January 1, 2014
Entry Age Normal
Individual Entry Age
Level-dollar; closed
Level percentage of payroll; open
17 Years
30 years
5-Year Smoothed Market Value (20% 5-Year Smoothed Market Value (20%
Corridor)
Corridor)
3.5% to 8.5%
7.5%
Age based table

3%
7%
3-7%

70
Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
RTD Plan – Defined Contribution
Plan Description
The RTD defined contribution plan and represents full-time salaried employees hired after January 1, 2008. The RTD Board
adopted amendment No. 8, effective January 1, 2008. RTD contributes 9% of the employee’s qualifying wage. Contributions
totaled $2,870 and $2,394 in 2015 and 2014, respectively. RTD employees cannot contribute to the Plan. Membership was
474 and 392 active employees in 2015 and 2014, respectively. In addition, RTD has one employee in 2015 and 2014
participating in both the RTD plan and the RTD DC Plan due to a compensation level in excess of the 2015-2014
compensation limits imposed under IRC section 401(a) (17).
Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust
The Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust was formed pursuant to a Trust Agreement
effective July 1, 1971, between Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 (ATU 1001) and an agent of a transit enterprise
owned by the City and County of Denver, through July 3, 1974, and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) thereafter.
In addition to the original Denver Metro Division, employees of other RTD divisions have been approved for participation in
the Trust benefits. The Trust agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all its terms and provisions so long as there
continues to be a collective bargaining agreement between the Union and RTD.
The Trust provides health benefits (hospital, medical, dental, vision, life and short-term disability) for represented employees
of RTD and certain officers of ATU 1001 and health care benefits for retired employees actively working 600 hours or more
per quarter. The Trust is funded through contribution by the employer and employee, the share of benefit plan contributions
is set by the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). RTD’s contribution was $16,846 and $13,878 for the years ended
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Trust also provides insurance coverage for felonious assault for each
employee and funds the Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Legal Services Trust. The Trust self-insures part of its
health benefits, life insurance coverage and short-term disability. The plan issues audited financial statements, which include
financial information for the plan. The financial statements may be obtained from the plan; RTD ATU 1001 Health and
Welfare Trust, 2821 S. Parker Road, Suite 215 Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602.
Unearned Compensation Plan
RTD offers its employees an unearned compensation plan (the Plan), created in accordance with Internal Revenue Code
Section 457, which is available to substantially all employees and permits them to defer a portion of their compensation to
future years. Under the terms of the Plan, the unearned compensation is available to participants upon termination,
retirement, death or in the event of an unforeseeable emergency or other financial hardship.
Compensated Absences
RTD considers all accrued compensated absences as due within one year. Employees accrue paid time off (PTO), vacation,
and sick leave based on time in service; employees are not allowed to accumulate more than twice their annual PTO or
vacation accrual and sick leave based on years of service. Employees are paid any outstanding compensated absence
balances upon leaving RTD. RTD records these accrued compensated absences as current liabilities under the principle of
conservatism by assuming these amounts are the most RTD would be obligated to pay in the near-term.

71
Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2015, was as follows:

Represented employees
Salaried employees
Total compensated absences due

12/31/2014
Balance
$ 2,459
9,745
$12,204

2015
Accruals
$ 1,592
6,308
$ 7,900

2015
Payments
$ 1,491
5,882
$ 7,373

12/31/2015
Balance
$ 2,560
10,171
$12,731

2014
Payments
$ 1,241
5,317
$ 6,558

12/31/2014
Balance
$ 2,459
9,745
$12,204

Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2014, was as follows:

Represented employees
Salaried employees
Total compensated absences due

12/31/2013
Balance
$ 2,209
9,180
$11,389

2014
Accruals
$ 1,491
5,882
$ 7,373

The accrued compensation liabilities of $19,953 and $20,809 as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, include
$7,222 and $8,605 of accrued wages, salaries, and fringe benefits in addition to accrued compensated absences.
NOTE G – OPERATING LEASES – LESSOR
Union Station Alliance (USA) Lease
In December 2012, RTD entered a contract with Union Station Alliance (USA) to renovate and lease RTD’s historic Denver
Union Station Building. The renovation by USA included a hotel, Amtrak facilities, office space, retail and restaurant services
as well as renovation of the Great Train Hall. The renovations were complete and open to the public in July 2014. The
agreement includes a 60 year lease to USA to operate and maintain this facility in which RTD will participate in certain
revenue collections.
NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Commitments
Operating Lease – Civic Center Transfer Facility
In 1976, RTD entered into an operating lease for a portion of the land on which the Civic Center transfer facility is located in
downtown Denver. As collateral for the lease, RTD must maintain an account balance with a minimum market value of $1,500 in
an escrow account, the interest on which accrues to RTD until the lease expires. This amount in escrow is included in restricted
assets in the accompanying financial statements.

72
Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
Fixed rental commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31, 2015, are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2016
2017
2018
2018
2020
2021-2025
2026-2030
2031-2035
2036-2040
2041-2045
2046-2050
2051-2055
2056-2060
2061-2065
2066-2070
2071-2075

$ 259
262
265
267
270
1,391
1,462
1,536
1,615
1,697
1,784
1,875
1,970
2,071
2,177
2,288
$ 21,189

Rental expense relating to this lease amounted to $257 and $254 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and
2014, respectively.
Operating Lease – Purchased Transportation
RTD has entered into a number of transactions in which certain of its light rail vehicles have been leased to and subleased
back from certain U.S. and foreign companies and has entered into a transaction in which its maintenance facilities have
been leased to and subleased back. As part of these transactions, RTD irrevocably set aside certain monies (which were
received from each counter party as payment for its leasing of light rail vehicles and real property) with a third party trustee.
The monies held by such trustees will be utilized to make the lease payments owed by the RTD under the transactions and
are therefore considered fully funded and economically defeased.
Capital Projects
As of December 31, 2015, RTD has contracts for the construction of various capital projects and the purchase of buses and
light rail vehicles. The costs to complete these projects and the purchase of buses/light rail vehicles total $461,864 and
$483,272 in 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Grant Match Requirements
Under the provisions of current grants, RTD is obligated to satisfy certain matching requirements of these grants. At
December 31, 2015, RTD had a commitment to provide $20,329 in matching funds in order to receive $66,374 in future
federal and state grant funds.

73
Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
Privatization Contracts
In response to the privatization legislation (Note A), RTD has awarded contracts for specific groups of routes, not to exceed
58% as required by law for vehicular services. As of January 2016, slightly over 54.33% of RTD’s non-rail transit services
are delivered by private contractors operating under the auspices and direction of RTD.
ADA Paratransit Service
With the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), RTD was mandated to provide paratransit service to
the disabled individuals unable to use RTD’s fixed route buses, operating the same days and hours of service as the fixed
route service. This service, called Access-a-Ride, is a curb-to-curb (with door-to-door assistance upon special request)
transportation system offered to disabled individuals who cannot functionally use RTD’s regular fixed route system.
Passengers eligible for Access-a-Ride service must originate their trip within 3/4 of a mile of an RTD non-commuter fixed
route. Since September 1996, RTD has been in full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
requirement to provide paratransit service to the disabled individuals unable to use fixed route buses.
Future Commitments under Construction Contracts
In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private partnership to design, build, finance and operate several of the transit
improvements contemplated under the FasTracks program, including the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East
Corridor, the Gold Line Rail Corridor and the electrified segment of the Northwest Rail Corridor (together, the “Eagle P3
Project). The Eagle P3 Project is being delivered and operated under a concession agreement that RTD has entered into with
a concessionaire that has been selected through a competitive proposal process. The selected concessionaire is known as
Denver Transit Partners (DTP), a special purpose company owned by Fluor Enterprises, Uberior Investments and Laing
Investments.
The Eagle P3 Project construction will be completed in two phases with Phase I completed in 2016 and Phase II completed
in 2017. Under the terms of the Eagle P3 Project agreement, RTD will make scheduled construction payments to DTP each
year from 2011 through 2017 for completed project elements totaling $1,064,592. RTD will assume ownership of the Eagle
P3 Project elements as they are constructed. In addition, RTD will make scheduled secured principal and interest payments
to DTP from 2017 through 2044 for the remaining Eagle P3 Project obligation totaling $1,438,234 resulting in a total
project cost through 2044 of $2,502,826. The Eagle P3 Project agreement also includes a provision whereby, upon project
completion and placement in service, DTP will operate and maintain the Eagle P3 Project during the period 2016 through
2044 for which RTD will make service payments.
In 2012, RTD entered a contract with Kiewit Infrastructure Company to complete the 10.5 mile I-225 light rail line,
extending from the currently existing Nine Mile station to connect the Southeast Line to the East Line. The I-225 Line is
being completed in coordination with the Colorado Department of Transportation’s I-225 highway project and will open in
2016 to provide connectivity to major activity centers like the Aurora City Center, Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Center and
Denver International Airport through a transfer at Peoria to the East Rail Line.
In December 2013, RTD entered a contract with Regional Rail Partners to construct the North Metro Rail Line. The North
Metro Rail Line is an 18.5-mile electric commuter rail line that will run from Denver Union Station through Commerce City,
Thornton and Northglenn to Highway 7 at 162nd Avenue in North Adams County. The North Metro Rail Line is scheduled to
open in 2018.

74
Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
In September 2015, RTD entered a contract with Balfour Beatty Infrastructure, Inc. to design and construct the Southeast
Rail Extension Project. The Southeast Rail Extension includes 2.3 miles extending from Lincoln Avenue in Douglas County, to
RidgeGate Parkway station featuring a new Park-n-Ride with a structure of 1,300 parking spaces. The Southeast Rail
Extension is scheduled to open in 2019.
Future Commitments under Service Contracts
The fixed commitments under the Privatization contracts (bus) in the years subsequent to 2015 are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total

$ 126,539
114,608
109,993
58,544
15,884
$ 425,568

Denver Transit Partner’s concessionaire service payment commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31,
2015, are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021-2025
2026-2030
2031-2035
2036-2040
2041-2044

$

52,419
77,411
81,244
105,406
114,359
578,911
655,942
798,927
838,633
617,860

$ 3,921,112

Diesel Fuel Contract
RTD contracts with Mansfield Oil Co of Gainesville, Inc. for diesel fuel. The contract is structured as a single year contract.
The fixed commitment under the Mansfield contract in 2016 is $20,990. RTD estimates usage of 9.4 million gallons at unit
cost of $2.233 per gallon: 5.64 million RTD’s usage and 3.76 million RTD private carriers usage.

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

75
Packet Pg. 100

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
Contingencies
Federal Grants
RTD receives federal grants for capital projects and operating assistance, which are subject to audit by FTA. Although the
outcome of any such audit cannot be predicted, it is management’s opinion these audits will not result in liabilities to such an
extent that they would materially affect RTD’s financial position.
Self-Insurance
RTD is self-insured for general liability and Workers’ Compensation claims. Liabilities are reported when it is probable that a
loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health
benefit option as part of its employee benefits program in which costs are recognized as they are incurred.
RTD does not carry excess liability insurance for personal injury and property damage. Under the provisions of the Colorado
Government Immunity Act, the maximum liability, with certain exceptions as defined in the Act, to RTD for claims involving
personal injury and property damage is $350 per individual and $990 per incident.
For Workers’ Compensation, an excess coverage insurance policy covers individual claims in excess of $2,000. The amount
of settlements has not exceeded insurance coverage in any of the past three years.
RTD’s liability for unpaid claims includes an amount for claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR). RTD’s Risk
Management determines incurred claims by investigating the accident and establishing a reserve. Reserves are established
on the day of assignment, reviewed at 30 days and again at 90 days. Reserves are reviewed every 90 days thereafter and
based on ultimate exposure. This amount is included in other accrued expenses in the statement of net assets. Changes in
the balances of claims liabilities for both general liability and Worker’s Compensation during the past year are as follows:

General Liability

Workers’
Compensation

Total
$

Unpaid claims, January 1, 2014
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments

$

2,029
3,123
_______ (2,461)

$

Unpaid claims, December 31, 2014
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments

$

$

2,845
4,264
_______ (3,177)

5,536
7,336
______(5,339)

______$_ 3,932

_____$ 7,513

2,691
3,052
_______ (2,162)

Unpaid claims, December 31, 2015*

$

3,581

*All claim liabilities are considered current liabilities payable within one year.

3,349
2,114
(2,618)

5,378
5,237
______(5,079)
$

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

76
Packet Pg. 101

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
Contract Disputes and Legal Proceedings
RTD is party to a number of pending or threatened lawsuits under which it may be required to pay certain amounts upon final
disposition of these matters. RTD’s legal counsel estimates that the ultimate outcome of these matters is either sufficiently
covered by RTD’s general liability and Workers’ Compensation reserves or would not materially affect the financial
statements of RTD.
RTD has been made aware of a pending lawsuit in which the claimant is seeking a refund from the Department of Revenue
of previously paid sales taxes on purchases of aviation fuel as well as the discontinuance of such future sales tax payments.
The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has recently issued guidance regarding state and local taxation of aviation fuel in
which RTD may no longer be authorized to collect such taxes and possibly refund some taxes previously collected.
RTD is party to a pending lawsuit in which the plaintiffs/appellants seek to hold unconstitutional a 2013 state statute which
made several adjustments to the items upon which RTD and the Scientific and Cultural Facilities District could and could not
collect sales tax. The appellants maintained that voter approval was required. The District Court granted summary judgment
in favor of RTD and the other appellees (SCFD and the Colorado Department of Revenue). The matter is currently before the
Colorado Court of Appeals. If the District Court’s decision is reversed, RTD may no longer be authorized to collect certain
taxes and may possibly have to refund some taxes previously collected.
NOTE I – NET POSITION
December 31,
2014

2015
Invested in capital assets, net of related debt
Restricted net position
Restricted debt service
Restricted TABOR
Restricted FasTracks
Restricted Other
Total restricted net position

$

3,274,663

$

114,395
20,284
(34,639)
1,500
101,540

Unrestricted net position
Unrestricted - represented net pension liability*
Unrestricted - salaried net pension liability
Unrestricted net position
Total unrestricted net position
Total net position

$

2,987,694

$

108,322
19,193
45,523
1,500
174,538

(284,175)
(138)
85,048
(199,265)
$

3,176,938

18,842
18,842
$

3,181,074

* Note: RTD has included for 2015 the full amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for
the represented pension plan, in accordance with financial reporting requirements. RTD is current in
making all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

77
Packet Pg. 102

NOTE J – BUDGETARY DATA
RTD’s annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes
proceeds of long-term debt and capital grants as revenue and expenditures include capital outlays and bond principal
payments, and excludes TABOR rebates under Amendment One, extraordinary loss and depreciation on, as well as gains and
losses on disposition of, property and equipment. The budget sets forth all proposed outlays for operations, planning,
administration, development, debt service, and capital outlays for the fiscal year. Prior to October 15, the General Manager
submits to the Board of Directors a proposed operating and capital budget for the fiscal year commencing the following
January 1, which is made available for public inspection and comment. On or before December 31, the budget is adopted in
conjunction with an appropriation resolution by the Board of Directors, who must also approve subsequent amendments
thereto. In the absence of such adoption, RTD has authority to begin making expenditures limited to 90% of the prior year’s
approved appropriation. RTD’s policy on budget transfers authorizes the General Manager to approve certain transfers
within the budget.
A reconciliation for the years ended December 31 of the annual budget, as amended, to actual revenue and expenses is as
follows:

Revenue, actual
Proceeds from debt / arbitrage relief
Federal capital grants and local contributions
Revenue, actual (budgetary basis)
Revenue, budget
Expenses, actual
Capital outlays
Depreciation, amortization, other
Long-term debt principal payment
Expenses, actual (budgetary basis)
Appropriations
Unused appropriations

$

$

$
$

2015
755,349
299,688
169,313
1,224,350
1,431,648
742,463
870,055
(152,531)
54,348
1,503,835
2,507,386
1,003,551

2014
$
732,194
573,324
206,431
1,511,949
$ 1,498,686
735,000
862,701
(139,045)
57,002
1,515,658
$ 2,653,183
$ 1,137,525

Unused appropriations lapse at year-end, except the Board of Directors has the authority, as stated in the adopted
appropriation resolution, to carry over the unused portion of funds for capital projects not completed, for a period not to
exceed three years. As of December 31, 2015, there was approximately $1,004 of unused 2015 appropriations for capital
outlays available for carryover to 2016.
NOTE K – TAX, SPENDING AND DEBT LIMITATIONS
In November 1992, Colorado voters passed an amendment (Amendment One) to the State Constitution (Article X, Section
20) that limits the revenue raising and spending abilities of state and local governments known as the Taxpayer’s Bill of
Rights (TABOR). The limits on property taxes, revenue, and “fiscal year spending” include allowable annual increases tied to
inflation and local growth in construction valuation. Fiscal year spending as defined by the amendment excludes spending
from certain revenue and financing sources such as federal funds, gifts, property sales, fund transfers, damage awards, and
fund reserves (balances). The amendment requires voter approval for any increase in mill levy tax rates, new taxes, or
creation of multi-year debt. Revenue earned in excess of the “spending limit” must be refunded to the taxpayers unless
voters approve retention of these revenues. In addition, the amendment mandates that reserves equal 3% of fiscal spending
be established for declared emergencies.

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

78
Packet Pg. 103

NOTE K – TAX, SPENDING AND DEBT LIMITATIONS (CONTINUED)
On November 7, 1995, the voters of the District exempted the Regional Transportation District from the revenue and
spending limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31, 2005. On November 2, 1999, the voters of the
District further exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations outlined in the Amendment for the purpose of
paying any debt incurred to finance the Southeast Corridor light rail project or to operate such project for as long as any debt
remains outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in RTD’s sales and use tax rate from 0.6% to 1.0%,
effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit improvement program. This authorization also exempted RTD
from any revenue and spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the increased
tax revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the FasTracks program. At the
time that all FasTracks debt is repaid, RTD’s sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate the rapid
transit system financed through FasTracks. RTD has $3.477 billion in authorized debt, subject to the Amendments’
limitations. This debt was authorized by the voters of the District in 2004 to pay for the FasTracks rapid transit
improvement program. Based on estimated fiscal year spending for 2015, $20,284 of year-end net position, as restated,
has been reserved for emergencies.
The Amendment is complex and subject to judicial interpretation. RTD believes it is in compliance with the requirements of
the Amendment based on the interpretations of the Amendment’s language available at year-end.
NOTE L – SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On January 1, 2016, RTD implemented a fare structure modification. The modification was the culmination of a two year
task force fare study with the goals of simplification, equity and the achievement of revenue levels set out in the Strategic
Budget Plan.
On January 1, 2016, the RTD Board of Directors contracted with the RTD Interim General Manager and CEO for three years
plus two option years to serve as the permanent RTD General Manager and CEO.
On January 3, 2016, RTD began Bus Rapid Transit service along U.S. 36 between downtown Denver and Boulder as part of
the FasTracks Project.
On April 22, 2016, RTD began Commuter Rail service on the East Line between downtown Denver and Denver International
Airport as part of the FasTracks Project.

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

79
Packet Pg. 104

REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

80

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Packet Pg. 105

Required Supplementary Information
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Pension Plans Summary
As of December 31, 2015
Schedule of Contributions Multiyear

Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)

ATU 1001 Pension Plan
FY Ending
December 31,
20151

Actuarially
Determined
Contribution
$
18,752

Actual
Contribution
$
10,758

Contribution
Deficiency (Excess)
$
7,994

Covered Payroll
$
84,774

Actual Contribution
as a % of Covered
Payroll
12.69%

1

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period.
However, information is only currently available for one year. Additional years will
be presented as they become available.

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Actuarially Determine Contribution Union:
Valuation Date:
December 31, 2014
Notes
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for implementation the
following year.
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization Method
Level Percentage of Payroll, Open
Remaining Amortization Period
30 years
Asset Valuation Method
5-Year smoothed market, 0% corridor
Inflation
3.00%
Salary Increases
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
Investment Rate of Return
7.00%
Retirement Age
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last updated for the 2015
valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
Healthy Mortality
RP-2000 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
Disabled Mortality
RP-2000 Disabled Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
Other Information:
Notes
There were no benefit changes during the year.
See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion.

81

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

2.11.D.a

Packet Pg. 106

Schedule of Changes in the Plan’s Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)
ATU 1001 Pension Plan
Period Ending December 31,
Total Pension Liability
Service Cost
Interest
Changes to Benefit Terms
Differences Between Expected and Actual Experience
Assumption Changes
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Net Change in Total Pension Liability
Total Pension Liability - Beginning
Total Pension Liability - Ending (a)
Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Contributions - RTD
Contributions - Members
Net Investment Income
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Administrative Expenses
Other
Net Change in Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Beginning
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Ending (b)
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Beginning
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Ending (a) - (b)

20151

$

$
$
$

2013

2012

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(24,312)
37,742
488,394
526,136

$

10,758
3,586
11,779
(24,312)
(355)
1,456
213,008
214,464

$

311,672

$

2014

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as a Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability (b) / (a)

40.76%

Covered-Employee Payroll

84,774

Plan's Net Pension Liability as a Percentage of CoveredEmployee Payroll

367.65%

1

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently
available for one year. Additional years will be presented as they become available.
�

82

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

2.11.D.a

Packet Pg. 107

Schedule of Contributions Multiyear

Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)
RTD Salaried Pension Plan
FY Ending
December 31,
20151

Actuarially
Determined
Contribution
$
5,682

Actual
Contribution
$
3,100

Contribution
Deficiency (Excess)
$
2,582

Actual Contribution
as a % of Covered
Payroll
Covered Payroll
$
30,880
10.04%

1

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period.
However, information is only currently available for one year. Additional years will
be presented as they become available.

Methods and assumptions used to determine contribution rates:
Valuation Date
Actuarial Cost Method
Amortization Method

December 31, 2014
Entry Age
Level dollar, fixed and declining for 20 years.

Remaining Amortization Period

17 years

Asset Valuation Method

Smoothed over 5 years, based on the Actuarial Value of Assets expected return

Inflation
Salary Increase
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age

3.00%
3.75% - 8.75%
7.50%, net of investment expenses
Age
Rate

55
56 - 61
62
63 - 64
65 - 66
67 or older
Vested inactive participants are assumed to retire at age 62.
Mortality (Annuities)
Mortality (Lump Sums)
Other Information:

15.00%
10.00%
25.00%
15.00%
40.00%
100.00%

Healthy Participants: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants
Disabled Participants: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree Mortality Tables
014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male/30% female for participants and 30% male / 70% female for
beneficiaries.
401(a) 17 and 415 limits are assumed to increase with inflation.
Turnover: 0.00% - 10.43%, based on age
Disablement: 0.06% - 1.63%, based on age
Expenses: $165,000 per year, payable monthly.

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion.

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

2.11.D.a

83
Packet Pg. 108

Schedule of Changes in the Plan’s Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)
RTD Salaried Pension Plan
20151

Period Ending December 31,

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

Total Pension Liability
Service Cost

$

Interest

2,673
9,366

Changes to Benefit Terms

-

Differences Between Expected and Actual Experience

2,228

Assumption Changes

6,997

Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums

(7,034)

Net Change in Total Pension Liability

$

Total Pension Liability - Beginning
Total Pension Liability - Ending (a)

14,230
125,723

$

139,953

$

3,100

Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Contributions - RTD
Contributions - Members

-

Net Investment Income

9,078

Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums

(7,034)

Administrative Expenses

(127)

Other
Net Change in Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Beginning
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Ending (b)

124,993
$

Plan's Net Pension Liability - Beginning
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Ending (a) - (b)

5,017
130,010
730

$

9,943

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as a Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability (b) / (a)

92.90%

Covered-Employee Payroll

30,880

Plan's Net Pension Liability as a Percentage of CoveredEmployee Payroll

32.20%

1

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently
available for one year. Additional years will be presented as they become available.
�

84

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

2.11.D.a

Packet Pg. 109

Required Supplementary Information
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Pension Plan Summary
As of December 31, 2014
Schedule of Funding Progress – ATU 1001 Pension Plan
Actuarial
Valuation
Date
1/1/12
1/1/13
1/1/14

Actuarial Value
of Assets
$212,268
200,916
207,435

Actuarial
Accrued Liability
$406,309
422,813
426,272

Funding Excess
(Deficiency)
$(194,041)
(221,897)
(218,837)

Funding Ratio
52.24%
47.52%
48.66%

Unfunded
Annual
Actuarial
Covered
Liability as % of
Payroll
Covered Payroll
$79,743
(243.3%)
83,084
(267.1%)
81,040
(270.0%)

Funding Ratio
93.72%
87.82%
85.12%

Annual
Covered
Payroll
$31,659
31,447
31,193

Schedule of Funding Progress – RTD Salaried Pension Plan

Actuarial
Valuation
Date
1/1/12
1/1/13
1/1/14

Actuarial Value
of Assets
$103,941
104,218
113,743

Actuarial
Accrued Liability
$110,910
118,671
133,633

Funding Excess
(Deficiency)
$ (6,969)
(14,453)
(19,890)

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion

Unfunded
Actuarial
Liability as % of
Covered Payroll
(22.0%)
(46.0%)
(63.8%)

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

2.11.D.a

85
Packet Pg. 110

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

86

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Packet Pg. 111

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SCHEDULE OF EXPENSE AND REVENUE
BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS
Year Ended December 31, 2015
(In Thousands)
Adopted
Budget
Operating revenue
Passenger fares
Other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total operating expenses

$

Operating loss
Nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income
Gain/loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/unrealized loss capital assets
Total nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Proceeds from debt
Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants
Long-term debt principal payment
Excess (deficiency) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital
outlays and debt principal payments
$
Increases (decreases) to reconcile
budget basis to GAAP basis
Capital expenses
Proceeds from debt
Long-term debt principal payment
Depreciation
INCREASE IN NET POSITION

Final
Budget

Variance positive
(negative)

Actual

123,364 $
5,195
128,559

123,373 $
5,245
128,618

120,530
5,347
125,877

144,800
49,998
66,695
109,221
14,980
7,600
113,881
3,415
7,905
518,495

147,191
54,944
67,741
139,607
15,015
7,595
114,214
3,415
5,824
555,546

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
508,824

(3,617)
(21,455)
8,857
59,858
1,342
(507)
998
(47)
1,293
46,722

(389,936)

(426,928)

(382,947)

43,981

535,146
85,938
4,310
11,020
(97,472)
538,942
413,025

551,368
78,832
4,310
11,020
(95,365)
550,165
457,091

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364
299,688

(9,850)
(5,449)
(1,146)
(698)
1,085
15,679
(1,422)
(1,801)
(157,403)

1,903,537
(198,891)
1,704,646
(62,471)

1,687,076
(206,451)
1,480,625
(58,942)

870,055
(169,313)
700,742
(54,348)

(817,021)
37,138
(779,883)
4,594

(1,205,086) $

(959,239)

(289,985)

$

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion

87

870,055
(299,688)
54,348
(152,531)
182,199

$

$

(2,843)
102
(2,741)

669,254

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

Packet Pg. 112

STATISTICAL SECTION
This part of the Regional Transportation District’s comprehensive annual financial report presents detailed information as a context for
understanding what the information in the financial statements, note disclosure, and required supplementary information says about
the government’s overall financial health.
Contents

Page

Financial Trends

89-92

These tables contain trend information to help the reader understand how the government’s financial performance and well-being
have changed over time.
Revenue Capacity

93-94

These tables contain information to help the reader assess the government’s most significant revenue source.
Debt Capacity

95-96

These tables contain information to help the reader asses the affordability of the government’s current levels of outstanding debt
and the government’s ability to issue additional debt in the future.
Demographic and Operating Information

97

These tables contain service and infrastructure data to help the reader understand how the information in the financial report
relates to service the government provides and the activities it performs. The demographic and economic indicators help the reader
understand the environment within which the government’s financial activities take place.

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.a

88
Packet Pg. 113

2.11.D.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
NET POSITION BY COMPONENT 1 (In Thousands)

Unrestricted net position (note I)
Total net position

1

2015

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

$ 3,274,663

$ 2,987,694

$ 2,788,100

$ 2,348,966

$ 1,872,790

$ 1,597,631

$ 1,456,493

$ 1,338,453

$ 1,162,486

$ 1,167,667

20,284
81,256
101,540

19,193
155,345
174,538

18,304
117,827
136,131

17,451
316,711
334,162

16,392
491,313
507,705

15,486
424,348
439,834

15,158
442,489
457,647

16,821
393,223
410,044

16,829
412,822
429,651

15,078
232,702
247,780

(199,265)

18,842

53,218

45,782

46,199

166,299

132,035

143,913

186,280

140,626

$ 3,176,938

$ 3,181,074 $ 2,977,449 $ 2,728,910 $ 2,426,694 $ 2,203,764 $ 2,046,175 $ 1,892,410 $ 1,778,417 $ 1,556,073

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.

89

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

Invested in capital assets,
net of related debt (Note I)
Restricted (Note I)
Emergencies
Debt and other
Total restricted net position

Table 1

Packet Pg. 114

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total Operating Expenses
Operating loss before depreciation
Depreciation
Operating Loss
Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on Capital Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unrealized Loss A
Total Nonoperating Income
Net income before
capital grants and local contributio

Table 2

2013

2012

2011

$ 117,841
5,199
123,040

$ 112,929
5,333
118,262

$ 108,497
4,882
113,379

2010
$

2009

97,942 $ 96,890
4,414
4,357
102,356
101,247

2008
$

88,205
4,124
92,329

$

2007

2006

77,128 $
4,382
81,510

66,211
3,310
69,521

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
508,824
(382,947)
152,531
(535,478)

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
520,057
(395,154)
139,045
(534,199)

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
511,481
(388,441)
127,256
(515,697)

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741
492,008
(373,746)
115,269
(489,015)

166,332
52,015
48,357
11,627
6,089
108,865
1,964
2,082
397,331
(283,952)
104,280
(388,232)

160,498
48,310
60,553
10,977
5,429
104,514
2,515
3,315
396,111
(293,755)
104,176
(397,931)

161,747
56,835
42,783
9,512
3,767
103,975
2,680
6,866
388,165
(286,918)
106,025
(392,943)

155,799
61,056
36,835
10,575
5,333
102,743
2,464
2,619
377,424
(285,095)
102,252
(387,347)

150,560
49,157
30,654
8,678
5,090
97,819
2,195
2,390
346,543
(265,033)
103,302
(368,335)

136,733
43,709
29,864
7,530
5,722
93,003
1,758
3,144
321,463
(251,942)
67,526
(319,468)

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)
479,555

415,180
89,592
6,484
11,356
(6,101)
(51,274)
(150)
465,087

397,549
92,655
8,065
3,653
(3,474)
(48,735)
(1,671)
448,042

371,405
68,146
29,379
3,243
40
(34,179)
(23,037)
414,997

412,824
50,814
52,456
3,106
1
(56,273)
(977)
461,951

418,407
47,040
57,471
4,706
1,055
(52,272)
(861)
475,546

399,557
42,805
29,936
4,031
1,929
(29,689)
(805)
447,764

12,886

(2,806)

5,973

(9,460)

76,855

50,111

22,054

74,604

107,211

128,296

Capital grants and local contribution 169,313
Increase in Net Position
182,199
Net Position, Beginning of Year,
3,181,074
(as previously reported)
Change in accounting principle,
(186,335)
(note A)
Net Position, Beginning of Year,
2,994,739
(as restated)
Prior Period Adjustment
Net Position at End of Year
$3,176,938

206,431
203,625
2,977,449

242,566
248,539
2,728,910

311,676
302,216
2,426,694

238,292
315,147
2,203,764

107,478
157,589
2,046,175

131,711
153,765
1,892,410

39,389
113,993
1,778,417

115,133
222,344
1,556,073

61,537
189,833
1,366,240

$3,181,074

$2,977,449

$2,728,910

(92,217)
$2,426,694

$2,203,764 $2,046,175

$1,892,410

(5,588)
$1,778,417 $1,550,485

2.11.D.a

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)
2015
2014
Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares
$ 120,530 $ 120,497
Other
5,347
4,406
Total Operating Revenues
125,877
124,903

90
Packet Pg. 115

2.11.D.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES AND CAPITAL OUTLAYS1
Last Ten Years (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)

Year
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
1
2

Transit
Planning,
Other
Operating
Administrative
Interest
Nonoperating
Capital
Expenses
Outlays2
Expenses2
and Development
Depreciation
Expense2
208,361
805 $
67,523 $ 29,689 $
$
284,360 $
37,104 $
302,626
43,916
103,302
52,272
861
156,785
324,931
52,492
102,252
56,273
977
282,758
326,324
61,841
106,025
34,179
23,037
410,354
318,751
77,360
104,176
48,735
5,145
712,552
333,301
64,030
104,280
51,274
6,251
616,953
414,893
77,115
115,269
51,371
4,895
702,119
429,700
81,781
127,256
61,223
4,146
769,359
436,905
83,152
139,045
72,293
3,605
862,701
427,468
81,356
152,531
79,686
1,422
870,055

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.
RTD capitalizes certain interest costs, which are included in capital outlays.

Total
627,842
659,762
819,683
961,760
1,266,719
1,176,089
1,365,662
1,473,465
1,597,701
1,612,518

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

Table 3

91
Packet Pg. 116

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
REVENUE BY SOURCE1
Last Ten Years (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)

1

Table 4

Sales/Use
Tax
$
399,557
418,407
412,824
371,405
397,549
415,180
449,787
468,586
514,721
541,518

Grant
Operating
Assistance
$
42,805
47,041
50,814
68,146
92,655
89,592
68,927
88,243
75,544
73,383

Interest
Income
$ 29,936
57,471
52,456
29,379
8,065
6,484
2,613
2,040
165
3,164

$

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.

92

Other
4,032
4,706
3,106
3,283
3,653
11,356
14,494
28,170
16,861
11,407

Total
Revenue
$ 545,851
609,135
611,529
573,460
604,278
635,991
654,083
710,079
732,194
755,349

Capital
Grants
$ 57,413
107,577
39,220
129,211
102,213
186,073
193,991
159,783
171,549
157,616

Local
Contributions
$
4,123
7,556
169
2,500
5,265
52,219
117,685
82,783
34,882
11,697

Total Revenue
and Capital Grant
& Contributions
$
607,387
724,268
650,918
705,171
711,756
874,283
965,759
952,645
938,625
924,662

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

Year
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015

Operating
Revenues
$
69,521
81,510
92,329
101,247
102,356
113,379
118,262
123,040
124,903
125,877

2.11.D.a

Packet Pg. 117

2.11.D.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS1
(In Thousands)
LAST TEN YEARS (UNADUITED)
Sales Tax Bond Debt Service Requirements2
Interest
2006

$

21,048

Principal
$

15,015

Total
$

36,063

$

Sales Tax

Coverage

Collections

Ratio

399,557

11.08

2007

48,445

38,590

87,035

418,407

4.81

2008

44,944

45,505

90,449

412,824

4.56

2009

43,210

44,430

87,640

371,405

4.24

2010

46,324

44,511

90,835

397,549

4.38

2011

70,646

25,010

95,656

415,180

4.34

2012

70,752

26,211

96,963

449,787

4.64

2013

76,786

20,725

97,511

468,586

4.81

2014

84,821

25,712

110,533

514,721

4.66

2015

84,101

26,428

110,529

541,518

4.90

Certificate of Participation Debt Service Requirements
Interest
2006

$

14,393

Principal
$

16,155

Total
$

30,548

2007

14,428

17,105

31,533

2008

14,502

17,515

32,017

2009

13,714

18,340

32,054

2010

13,711

26,725

40,436

2011

28,973

25,955

54,928

2012

28,451

28,575

57,026

2013

31,285

25,735

57,020

2014

43,502

31,290

74,792

2015

57,226

27,910

85,136

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

Table 5

93
Packet Pg. 118

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

Table 5

2.11.D.a

DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS2 (Continued)

Total Debt Service Requirements
Interest
2006

$

35,441

Principal
$

31,170

Total
$

66,611

$

Total

Coverage

Revenue

Ratio

545,851

8.19

2007

62,873

55,695

118,568

609,135

5.14

2008

59,446

63,020

122,466

611,528

4.99

2009

56,924

62,770

119,694

573,460

4.79

2010

60,035

71,236

131,271

654,083

4.98

2011

99,619

50,965

150,584

874,283

5.81

2012

99,203

54,786

153,989

965,494

6.27

2013

108,071

46,460

154,531

952,645

6.16

2014

128,323

57,002

185,325

938,645

5.08

2015

141,327

54,338

195,665

924,662

4.73

1

Source: The financial records of RTD and the Offical Statements of the respective debt issues.

2

Sales Tax Bonds include the 2001A Commercial Paper.

94

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

(In Thousands)

Packet Pg. 119

2.11.D.a
Table 6

2015
January 1 population within RTD
service area1
Cities and towns served
Square miles in service area
Total miles 2
Passenger stops
Number of fixed routes
Local
Limited
Express
Regional
Skyride
Boulder City
Longmont City
Miscellaneous
Ridership average weekday,
without Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA, and Van Pool
Total annual boardings without
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail and ADA
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA service, and Van Pool
Daily miles operated (average weekday),
including Mall Shuttle
Daily miles operated (average
weekday), including Mall Shuttle
and Light Rail
Diesel fuel consumption, gallons 3
Total active buses
Wheelchair lift equipped buses
Number of employees 3
Salaried
Represented (includes part-time)
Fleet requirements ( peak hours)
Operating facilities 3
1
2
3

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2,870,000
40
2,340
47,575,444
9,566
137
65
15
20
5
13
4
8

2,870,000
40
2,340
45,746,927
9,751
138
65
11
14
17
5
13
4
9

2,800,000
40
2,340
45,246,715
9,509
136
65
11
14
17
5
13
4
7

2,800,000
40
2,340
38,824,067
9,841
145
71
11
17
17
5
13
4
7

2,800,000
40
2,348
42,996,614
9,698
138
64
11
16
17
5
12
4
9

2,800,000
40
2,348
41,449,988
10,140
148
66
11
20
16
5
14
7
9

2,800,000
40
2,348
48,862,622
10,199
150
67
11
20
16
5
15
7
9

2,760,000
40
2,337
49,947,763
10,199
165
72
13
24
18
5
15
7
11

2,700,000
40
2,331
50,706,993
10,329
170
73
15
25
18
5
15
8
11

2,619,000
39
2,329
49,167,392
10,596
166
73
15
24
16
5
15
8
10

208,086

211,702

208,387

210,811

205,504

209,172

212,758

224,918

207,734

198,629

252,034

255,696

254,071

255,501

254,197

255,068

259,873

273,737

255,987

246,992

338,363

344,348

335,391

326,747

325,900

323,311

328,291

344,954

320,311

294,791

62,833,246

63,935,032

63,010,579

63,640,443

61,634,723

62,902,963

63,578,004

67,910,015

62,007,583

57,662,038

76,257,759

77,464,530

77,079,604

77,320,228

76,577,627

76,825,609

77,928,088

82,727,534

76,620,488

74,637,863

101,776,337

103,851,061

100,844,239

97,959,296

97,272,342

96,657,335

97,687,476

103,362,667

95,275,984

85,915,718

102,991,663

104,987,248

101,966,009

99,122,065

98,384,882

97,724,928

98,746,429

104,071,339

96,326,580

86,842,675

119,076

107,635

106,709

129,517

117,261

124,248

149,750

152,848

155,153

154,078

131,221
5,550,000
1,021
1,021

119,706
5,550,000
1,011
1,011

118,385
5,600,000
992
992

139,083
5,400,000
998
998

126,849
5,400,000
969
969

134,294
5,200,000
1,025
1,025

159,824
5,400,000
1,050
1,050

163,987
6,000,000
1,039
1,039

166,571
6,000,000
1,071
1,071

165,666
6,100,000
1,071
1,071

779
1,955
834
7

735
1,929
821
7

752
1,901
785
6

700
1,715
779
6

697
1,785
797
6

696
1,744
806
6

664
1,802
830
6

623
1,903
862
6

611
1,923
862
6

613
1,907
851
6

Source: Population is based on estimates provided by the Denver Regional Council of Governments. All other data comes from the financial records of RTD.
Reflects total Mile, including Light Rail.
Excludes purchased transportation services.

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DEMOGRAPHIC AND OPERATING DATA
Last Ten Years (Unaudited)

95
Packet Pg. 120

2.11.D.a

CAFR
Table
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Table Title
SBP Operations Program
SBP Capital Program
RTD Statement of Debt
RTD Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue
RTD Advertising and Ancillary Revenues
RTD Federal Grant Receipts
Five-Year Summary of Revenue/Expense Statements
Five-Year Summary of Budget/Actuals
RTD 2014 and 2015 Budget
Trip Fares
RTD Net Retail Sales

Debt Disclosure Tables Updated in Body of 2015 CAFR

Table Title

Location in CAFR

RTD Revenues by Source

Statistical Section – Table 4

Summary Balance Sheet

Statements of
Net Position – pg. 37-38

96

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

Debt Disclosure Tables for 2015 CAFR

Packet Pg. 121

2.11.D.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2016-2021 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - OPERATING PROGRAM (In Thousands)

1,2

Interest Payments
Bus Operations – Current RTD
Bus Operations – Private Carrier after Contract
Bus Operations - call-n-Ride
Private Contract Administration Costs
Service Increases – RTD-Operated
Service Increases – Private Contractor
FasTracks Service Allocation - Bus1
Cost Sharing Agreements - Bus Service
Van Pool Program
Section 5011 Local Match
LRT Operations
ADA Operating Costs
FasTracks Service Allocation - ADA1
Facilities Maintenance - Base
Facilities Maintenance - Additional Costs
Capital Programs - Base
Capital Programs - Additional Costs
Direct Costs - Other Departments
Indirect Costs - Other Departments
Grand Total
1
2

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

$ 28,903
131,567
96,650
6,292
356
1,986
1,626
(15,488)
2,154
850
835
45,192
42,151
(1,965)
43,061
3,690
5,550
5,002
830
73,201
$472,443

$ 24,205
135,546
99,586
6,503
368
1,231
1,379
(16,024)
2,229
879
864
48,604
43,457
(2,033)
44,406
9,717
5,721
5,493
854
85,512
$498,497

$ 23,433
140,060
102,788
6,713
380
1,331
1,435
(16,553)
2,302
908
893
51,534
44,864
(2,100)
45,873
13,886
5,910
6,830
879
84,254
$515,620

$ 23,924
143,699
105,863
6,914
392
(17,061)
2,373
936
920
51,377
46,214
(2,165)
47,282
9,999
6,091
6,686
903
82,187
$516,534

$ 23,779
147,729
108,825
7,110
403
(17,545)
2,440
962
946
52,872
47,509
(2,226)
48,603
4,540
6,262
6,027
929
85,112
$524,277

$ 23,889
151,747
111,779
7,307
414
(18,030)
2,507
989
972
53,585
48,800
(2,288)
49,919
3,995
6,431
6,089
955
87,127
$536,187

Interest payments and FasTracks service allocation are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
Interest payments on bonds and certificates of participation (COPS) issued for purposes other than FasTracks.

97

Total Cost
$

148,133
850,348
625,491
40,839
2,313
4,548
4,440
(100,701)
14,005
5,524
5,430
303,164
272,995
(12,777)
279,144
45,827
35,965
36,127
5,350
497,393
$ 3,063,558

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

Program

Table 7

Packet Pg. 122

Program
Long Term Debt Service

1,2

Fleet Modernization and Expansion3
Transit Buses
ADA Vehicles
Other
Light Rail Vehicles
Bus and Rail Infrastructure
park-n-Rides3
Capital Support Equipment3
Vehicles and Bus Maintenance Equipment
Treasury
Information Systems, Computer Equip. for Ops.
Security Equipment
Bus Maintenance Facilities3
Boulder
District Shops
East Metro
Platte
Light Rail Maintenance Facilities3
Central Rail Line
Maintenance of Way
District-wide
Facilities Construction and Maintenance
System Planning
Discretionary Capital3
Grand Total

Table 8

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

Total Cost

$ 60,406

$ 58,862

$ 71,438

$ 70,912

$ 80,497

$ 78,106

$ 420,221

47,027
9,881
206
32,892
3,970
1,134

5,220
635
214
41,818
9,014
2,667

20,587
1,439
220
22,039
3,526
7,218

57,081
676
227
2,896
2,726

71,579
5,186
2,687
1,928

304
714
90,383
-

1,024
4,165
778

1,720
183
11,948
3,867

1,290
150
1,581
3,664

1,338
155
1,919
1,482

1,609
217
1,197
29

1,531
163
258
30

-

213
-

413
-

3,408
-

-

-

201,798
18,531
867
96,749
112,476
15,673
8,512
868
21,068
9,850
4,034
-

-

-

-

-

-

-

515
7,868
1,988
155
$172,009

469
533
534
4,040
2,441
160
$ 144,538

331
1,102
5,966
5,558
166
$ 146,688

57
34,313
2,306
170
$ 179,666

58
742
93
175
$ 165,997

60
120
18,100
180
$ 189,949

1

Principal payments are set at the time the bonds are issued and do not change with inflation.
Long-term debt service costs include principal payments on bonds and COPs and are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
3
Capital expenditures and discretionary capital amounts are presented in year of expenditure dollars.
2

469
1,039
2,151
53,049
30,486
1,006
$ 998,847

2.11.D.a

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2016-2021 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - CAPITAL PROGRAM (In Thousands)

98
Packet Pg. 123

2.11.D.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF DEBT
as of December 31, 2015

Outstanding2

Sales Tax Bonds
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20071 - FasTracks

$

374,925

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20071

74,762

1

14,728

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010

RTD Subordinate Sales Tax Revenue (DUSPA) Fastracks, Series 2010

154,246

RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2010AB 1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A1
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013A1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013AB 1
RTD Sales Tax TIFIA Loan4
Total Sales Tax Revenue Debt

$

381,179
537,102
61,420
245,502
296,283
2,140,147

Outstanding2

Lease Purchase Agreements
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Taxable Certificates of Participation, Series
2007A

8,910

Amended and Restated Certificates of Participation, Series 2002A

85,115

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation,
2010AB

FasTracks Series
294,316

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2014A

243,878
465,058

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A
Total Certificates of Participation Debt

$

211,895
1,309,172

Total Debt

$

3,449,319

$

3,011,536
1,145

RTD Seven County Populaiton 2014 3
Per Capita Debt Requirement
1

The Bond Resolution pursuant to which the RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are issued provides that pledged for the
payment of such Bonds are the Sales Tax Revenues and "any additional revenues legally available to RTD which the Board in
its discretion may hereafter by Supplemental Resolution pledge to the payment of the Bonds".

2

RTD is current on its obligations under all such debt.

3

Metro Denver Economic Profile 2013-2014
Capitalized interest thru 2020

4

99

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Table 9

Packet Pg. 124

2.11.D.a

Year
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015

Revenue
Boardings1
69,867
81,714
89,254
83,337
83,732
83,428
85,442
87,820
91,049
88,927

$

Percent
Change
in Fare
Revenue
14.9%
16.5%
14.4%
9.8%
1.1%
10.8%
4.1%
4.3%
2.3%
0.0%

Fare
Revenue
66,211
77,128
88,205
96,890
97,942
108,497
112,929
117,841
120,497
120,530

1

Totals for 2006-2015 include both access-a-Ride boardings and vanpool
boardings.

ADVERTISING AND ANCILLARY REVENUES - 2006-2015
(In Thousands)
Advertising
Ancillary
Year
Revenue
Revenues
$
2006
$
2,800
4,032
2007
2,800
4,032
2008
3,194
4,706
2009
2,854
3,106
2010
2,866
3,243
2011
3,301
2,892
2012
3,992
2,528
2013
3,524
2,214
2014
2,924
20,123
2015
4,160
1,186

Table 11

GRANT RECEIPTS AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS - 2006-2015
(In Thousands)

Table 12

Year
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015

Grant
Capital
$
57,413
107,577
39,220
129,211
102,213
186,073
193,991
159,783
171,549
157,616

Local
Contributions
$
4,124
7,556
169
2,500
5,265
52,219
117,685
82,783
34,882
11,697

Grant Operating
Assistance
$
42,805
47,041
50,814
68,146
92,655
89,592
68,927
88,243
75,544
73,383

100

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Table 10

ANNUAL RIDERSHIP AND FARE REVENUE - 2006-2015
(In Thousands)

Packet Pg. 125

2.11.D.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISCTRICT
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)
2015
Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares
Other
Total Operating Revenues

$

120,530
5,347
125,877

2014
$

Years ended December 31
2013

120,497
4,406
124,903

$

117,841
5,199
123,040

$

2012

2011

112,929
5,333
118,262

$

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Table 13

108,497
4,882
113,379

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total Operating Expenses

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
508,824

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
520,057

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
511,481

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741
492,008

166,332
52,015
48,357
11,627
6,089
108,865
1,964
2,082
397,331

Operating loss before depreciation
Depreciation

(382,947)
152,531

(395,154)
139,045

(388,441)
127,256

(373,746)
115,269

(283,952)
104,280

Operating Loss
Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on Capital Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unrealized Loss
Total Nonoperating Income

(535,478)

(534,199)

(515,697)

(489,015)

(388,232)

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)
479,555

415,180
89,592
6,484
11,356
(6,101)
(51,274)
(150)
465,087

Net income before capital grants and local contributions
Federal capital grants and local contributions

12,886
169,313

(2,806)
206,431

5,973
242,566

(9,460)
311,676

76,855
238,292

Increase in Net Position

182,199

203,625

248,539

302,216

315,147

Net Position, Beginning of Year (as previously reported)

3,181,074

2,977,449

2,728,910

2,426,694

2,111,547

Net Position, Beginning of Year (as restated)

2,994,739

Net Position at End of Year

$

3,176,938

$

3,181,074

$

2,977,449

$

2,728,910

$

2,426,694

101
Packet Pg. 126

Total operating revenues

128,618

125,877

130,408

124,903

124,769

123,040

121,517

118,262

108,610

113,379

Operating expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous

202,135
67,741
139,607
15,015
7,595
114,214
3,415
5,824

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531

184,597
67,259
143,911
15,334
7,470
118,189
3,289
6,931

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561

131,347
69,469
149,007
14,846
6,270
116,675
3,263
17,916

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448

159,460
59,714
189,519
11,705
6,299
113,346
2,464
16,983

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741

155,286
54,981
89,609
11,180
6,943
110,487
2,482
3,575

166,332
52,015
48,357
11,627
6,089
108,865
1,964
2,082

Total Operating Expenses

555,546

508,824

546,980

520,057

508,793

511,481

559,490

492,008

434,543

397,331

Operating loss

(426,928)

(382,947)

(416,572)

(395,154)

(384,024)

(388,441)

(437,973)

(373,746)

(325,933)

(283,952)

Nonoperating revenue (expense):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unlrealized loss

551,368
78,832
4,310
11,020
(95,365)
-

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)

503,448
92,866
2,372
20,721
(99,405)
-

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)

466,429
82,385
3,165
15,246
(79,473)
-

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)

436,521
79,760
3,338
21,186
(50,079)
-

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)

419,136
84,789
10,765
1,479
(41,747)
-

415,180
89,592
6,484
11,356
(6,101)
(51,274)
(3,895)

Total nonoperating revenue

550,165

548,364

520,002

531,393

487,752

521,670

490,726

479,555

474,422

461,342

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

457,091

299,688

795,604

573,324

261,376

693,841

583,788

545,763

-

-

Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants

1,687,076
(206,451)

870,055
(169,313)

1,811,720
(276,073)

862,701
(206,431)

1,811,720
(261,264)

769,359
(242,566)

1,709,182
(260,907)

702,119
(311,676)

1,327,839
(261,849)

616,953
(238,292)

1,480,625

700,742

1,535,647

656,270

1,550,456

526,793

1,448,275

390,443

1,065,990

378,661

58,942

54,348

62,187

57,002

46,460

442,598

56,563

57,827

50,965

53,882

(959,239)

(289,985) $

(698,800)

(3,709) $

(1,231,812)

(142,321) $

(868,297)

203,302 $

(968,466)

(255,153)

Long-term debt principal payment
Excess (deficit) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital outlay
and debt principal payments

$

Increases (decreases) to reconcile budget basis
to GAAP basis
Capital expenditures
Long-term debt proceeds
Long-term debt principal
Depreciation
Net Income

870,055
(299,688)
54,348
(152,531)
$

182,199

862,701
(573,324)
57,002
(139,045)
$

769,359
(693,841)
442,598
(127,256)

203,625

$

248,539

702,119
(545,763)
57,827
(115,369)
$

302,116

616,953
53,882
(104,280)
$

311,402

* RTD's annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes proceeds of long-term debt and capital grants as revenues, and expenditures include capital outlays
and bond principal

2.11.D.a

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Table 14
FIVE-YEAR SCHEDULE OF EXPENSES AND REVENUES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS (In Thousands)*
2012
2015
2014
2013
2011
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Operating revenues:
Passenger fares
$
123,373 $ 120,530 $
124,985 $ 120,497 $
119,346 $ 117,841 $ 116,092 $ 112,929 $ 103,236 $
108,497
Other
5,245
5,347
5,423
4,406
5,423
5,199
5,425
5,333
5,374
4,882

102
Packet Pg. 127

2.11.D.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
FISCAL YEAR 2015 AND 2016 BUDGET SUMMARY (in thousands)
2015
Adopted Budget
$
3,904,530

June 2015
Amended Budget
$
3,300,400

2016
Adopted Budget
$
3,925,058

128,559
535,146
284,829
15,330
5,858
333,369
73,798
1,376,889

128,618
551,368
285,283
15,330
11,900
329,098
116,093
1,437,690

163,457
590,487
354,922
12,269
27,229
150,000
71,300
1,369,664

Expenditures:
Operating
Interest expense
Debt payments
Current capital
Capital carryforward
Total expenditures

518,495
97,472
62,471
600,422
1,303,114
2,581,974

555,546
95,365
58,942
699,878
987,198
2,396,929

635,428
117,313
61,698
517,887
1,087,182
2,419,508

Adjustments1

1,505,333

1,583,897

2,291,724

Beginning net position
Revenues:
Operating
Sales & use taxes
Federal and local grants
Interest and other income
FasTracks - change in construction reserve
Financing proceeds
Contributed capital
Total Revenues

Ending net position

$

Net position summary:
Net investment in capital assets

4,204,778

3,925,058

$

$

5,166,938

3,898,421

3,614,433

4,836,121

79,883

79,883

112,218

19,819

20,284

19,793

Restricted FasTracks

130,000

145,240

120,655

Restricted Board appropriated and capital replacement fund4
Unrestricted fund

63,925
12,730

49,204
16,014

62,332
15,818

Restricted debt service, project related and other

2

Restricted TABOR fund
3

Ending net position

$

4,204,778

3,925,058

$

1

Adjustments reflect cash activity from the Statement of Net Position.
Funds restricted by bond covenants, other contracts and policy guidelines.
3
Appropriated funds which are available to fund future year expenditures for the FasTracks program.
4
Board appropriated funds per policy guidelines and funds designated for capital replacement.
2

103

$

5,166,937

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

Table 15

Packet Pg. 128

Single Trip Fares
Mall Shuttle
Local - Denver, Boulder, Longmont and light rail
Light rail and bus express2
Light rail and bus regional3
SkyRide
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 3
1

Seniors include age 65 and older

2

Trips consisting of three fare zones

3

Trips consisting of four fare zones

Multiple Trip Fares
Local - Denver, Boulder and Longmont and light rail
Light rail and bus express
Light rail and bus regional

Table 16

Fare
Free
$ 2.25
4.00
5.00

Senior/ Disabled/
Student Fare1
.
Free
$ 1.10
2.00
2.50

13.00
11.00
9.00

6.50
5.50
4.50

Regular 10Ride
$ 20.00
36.00
45.00

Other 10-Ride1
$
10.00
18.00
22.50

1

Regular Monthly
$
79.00
140.00
176.00

Other Monthly1
$
39.50
70.00
88.00

Includes monthly fares for youth, student, disabled and senior patrons. Youth patrons include children ages 6-19. Student includes any student with a
school identification card. Seniors include age 65 and older.

104

2.11.D.a

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
TRIP FARES

Packet Pg. 129

2.11.D.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RTD NET TAXABLE RETAIL SALES (In Millions)

1

Boulder
County
$ 3,336
3,538
3,491
3,216
3,391
3,721
3,851
4,033
4,359
4,547

Jefferson
County
$
5,952
6,185
6,043
5,536
5,656
6,001
6,202
6,538
7,013
7,505

Adams
County1
$ 4,577
4,804
4,785
4,240
4,433
4,749
5,323
5,731
6,436
6,932

Arapahoe
County1
$
6,889
7,294
7,098
6,459
6,817
7,486
8,109
8,456
9,211
9,887

Douglas
County1
$
2,562
2,616
2,524
2,319
2,390
2,778
2,912
3,108
3,318
3,575

Only a portion of each of these counties lies within the District

Broomfield
County1
$
902
934
901
790
935
944
991
1,004
1,045
1,077

Other
$ 572
592
666
474
718
1,041
1,036
1,399

Total Taxable
Transactions
$
34,583
36,714
36,565
32,303
34,106
37,959
40,839
41,731
45,636
49,551

Percent Annual
Increase or
Decrease
2.4%
6.2%
-0.4%
-11.7%
5.6%
11.3%
7.6%
2.2%
9.4%
8.6%

Attachment: 1.A 2015 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (05-2016) (2792 : 2015 CAFR and

Year
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015

Denver
County
$
9,793
10,751
11,057
9,269
9,766
11,239
12,415
12,861
14,254
14,629

Table 17

105
Packet Pg. 130

Report to Governance

Regional Transportation District
For the Year Ended December 31, 2015

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 131

www.rubinbrown.com

Table Of Contents
Regional Transportation District

Page
Introduction

1

Engagement Team

2

Objective And Scope Of Services

3

Other Audit Deliverables

4

Auditor Communications

5-9

Status Of Prior-Year Observations And Suggestions

10 - 12

Impact Of GASB 68 - Accounting And Financial Reporting
For Pensions

13

Foresights - Financial Accounting And Reporting

14

Independent Auditors’ Report On Additional Information

15

Attachments:
Adjusting Journal Entries Report
Management Representation Letter

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 132
17

Introduction
Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors and Management
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado

We are pleased to have the opportunity to present to you the results of our audit engagement of the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) for the year ended December 31, 2015. The accompanying report presents information
regarding the scope of our audits and other matters, which summarizes the results of our audit engagements.
We thank you for the opportunity to be of service to RTD. We have received excellent cooperation and assistance from
both management and staff with respect to access to records, supporting documentation and responses to inquiries. No
limitations were placed upon our ability to perform the audit.
This communication is intended solely for the information and use of management, the Board of Directors and others
within the organization and is not intended to be, and should not be, used by anyone other than these specified parties.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 133
1

Engagement Team
Regional Transportation District

ENGAGEMENT
MEMBER

ROLE

TELEPHONE

EMAIL

Cheryl Wallace

Engagement Partner

303.952.1288

cheryl.wallace@rubinbrown.com

Matthew Marino

Engagement Manager

303.952.1221

matthew.marino@rubinbrown.com

Jennifer Ulrich

Engagement Manager

303.952.1297

jennifer.ulrich@rubinbrown.com

Mitch McFarland

In-Charge

303.952.1274

mitch.mcfarland@rubinbrown.com

KEY PARTNERS

ROLE

TELEPHONE

EMAIL

Rodney Rice

Partner-In-Charge,
Denver Assurance
Services

303.952.1233

rodney.rice@rubinbrown.com

Michael T. Lewis

Managing Partner

303.952.1213

michael.lewis@rubinbrown.com

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 134
2

Objective And Scope
Of Services
Regional Transportation District

Objective Of
Engagement:

Independent Auditors’
Report On Financial
Statements

Auditors’
Responsibility:

Conducting the audit
in accordance with
generally accepted
auditing standards
and the standards
applicable to financial
audits contained in
Government Auditing
Standards
Ensuring that those
charged with
governance are
aware of internalcontrol-related
matters that are
required to be
communicated

Limitations Of
The Engagement:

An audit is designed
to obtain reasonable,
not absolute,
assurance about
whether the financial
statements are free
from material
misstatement.
An audit is not
designed to detect
immaterial errors or
fraud.
An audit is not
designed to provide
assurance about
internal controls or to
identify deficiencies in
internal controls.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Management’s
Responsibility:

Selecting and applying
accounting policies
Establishing and
maintaining effective
internal controls
Identifying and
ensuring compliance
with applicable laws
and regulations
Designing and
implementing controls
to prevent and detect
fraud
Informing auditors
regarding any known,
suspected or alleged
frauds
Making all financial
records available

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 135
3

Other Audit Deliverables
Regional Transportation District

Auditor
Communications

Best Practice And
Value-Added
Recommendations

ViewPoints

Required Communication
Of Any Internal Control
Matters

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 136
4

Auditor Communications
Regional Transportation District

We have audited the basic financial statements of RTD for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our audit was
performed in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and the standards
applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the
United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement and presented in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our audit involved performing procedures to obtain audit
evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. We also assessed the accounting principles
used by RTD and the reasonableness of significant estimates made by RTD’s management, as well as evaluated the
overall financial statement presentation.
Auditing standards require the auditor to ensure that those charged with governance receive additional information
regarding the scope and results of the audit that may assist the governing body in overseeing the financial reporting
and disclosure process for which management is responsible. The following section describes matters which are
required to be reported to you.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 137
5

Auditor Communications
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

AREA

COMMENTS

Our Responsibility Under U.S. Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards, Government Auditing Standards
And The Uniform Guidance

Reports issued by RubinBrown:
Unmodified report on RTD’s financial statements based
upon an audit of the financial statements in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America and Governmental Auditing Standards
RTD agreed-upon procedures reports regarding National
Transit Database reporting
Consulting engagement to determine the cost of the RTD
GM contract
A report on RTD’s internal control over financial reporting
and compliance and other matters based upon an audit of
the financial statements in accordance with Governmental
Auditing Standards
A unmodified report on RTD’s compliance for each major
program and a report on internal control over compliance
and report on the schedule of expenditures of federal
awards in accordance with the Uniform Guidance

Our responsibility, as described by professional standards, is to
express an opinion about whether the financial statements
prepared by management with your assistance are fairly
presented, in all material respects, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and whether
RTD complied in all material respects with the applicable
compliance requirements of its major federal programs. Our
audit of the financial statements and compliance does not
relieve you or management of responsibility for the accuracy of
the financial statements and/or compliance with applicable
requirements.
Professional standards also require that we obtain a significant
understanding of RTD’s internal control to plan the audit.
However, such understanding is required for the purpose of
determining our audit procedures and not to provide any
assurance concerning such internal control. Accordingly, we
express no such assurance.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 138
6

Auditor Communications
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

AREA

COMMENTS

Other Information In Documents Containing Audited
Financial Statements

None

Planned Scope And Timing Of The Audit

We performed the audit according to the planned scope and
timing communicated in our letter dated March 8, 2016
regarding the timing and extent of our audit procedures.

Qualitative Aspects Of Accounting Practices
Management is responsible for the selection and use of
appropriate accounting policies. In accordance with the terms
of our engagement letter, we will advise management about the
appropriateness of accounting policies and their application.

Significant accounting policies are described in Note A.
No new accounting policies were adopted, and the
application of existing policies was not changed, except
for the following:
Governmental Accounting Standards Board
(GASB) 68: Accounting and Financial Reporting for
Pensions and GASB 71: Pension Transition for
Contributions Made Subsequent to the
Measurement Date - an amendment of GASB
Statement No. 68 (GASB 68)
We noted no transactions entered into during the year for
which there was a lack of authoritative guidance or
consensus.
No significant transactions have been recognized in a
different period than when the transactions occurred.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 139
7

Auditor Communications
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

AREA

COMMENTS

Management Judgments And Accounting
Estimates
The preparation of the financial statements requires
the use of accounting estimates. Certain estimates
are particularly sensitive due to their significance to
the financial statements and the possibility that future
events may differ significantly from management’s
expectations.

Financial Statement Disclosures

We evaluated the key factors and assumptions used to develop the
estimates in determining that they are reasonable in relation to the
financial statements taken as a whole. The most sensitive estimates
affecting the financial statements are:
Management’s estimate of depreciation is based upon estimated
useful lives of capital assets.
Management’s estimate of the allowance for bad debts is based on
management’s review of outstanding receivables.
Management’s estimate of the net pension liability is based on
actuarial valuations and employee census data.
The disclosures are neutral, consistent and clear. Certain disclosures are
particularly sensitive because of their significance to financial statement
users. The most sensitive disclosures affecting the financial statements
are:
The disclosure of capital assets in Note D
The disclosure of long-term debt in Note E
The disclosure of employee retirement and unearned compensation
plans in Note F
The disclosure of commitments and contingencies in Note H
The disclosure of the tax, spending and debt limitations in Note K

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 140
8

Auditor Communications
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

AREA

COMMENTS

Difficulties Encountered In Performing The Audit

There were no difficulties encountered in dealing with
management related to the performance of the audit.

Corrected And Uncorrected Misstatements

Management has proposed and corrected all adjustments
considered to be material, either individually or in the
aggregate, which collectively decreased the increase in net
position by $10,500,221. See the attached Adjusting Journal
Entries Report.

Disagreements With Management

None

Management Representations

Management representation letter received dated May 5, 2016,
2016, which is attached

Management Consultations With Other Independent
Accountants

None

Other Audit Findings Or Issues

There were no matters of significant discussion that affected
our retention as RTD’s auditors.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 141
9

Status Of Prior-Year Observations
And Suggestions
Regional Transportation District

PRIOR-YEAR INTERNAL CONTROL
OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
OMB Circular A-133 Compliance: Transportation Infrastructure Finance
And Innovation Act (TIFIA) Loan Period Of Availability

Status
Implemented

The TIFIA loan agreement specified a funding period (period of availability), which
is the period of time when eligible project costs can be incurred for potential
reimbursement under the program. The TIFIA loan agreement specified eligible
federal project costs were for work performed after November 6, 2009. RTD
submitted reimbursement requests that included expenditures outside of the period
of availability and, as a result, incurred questioned costs of approximately
$1.5 million. RTD has identified other eligible project costs that meet the period of
availability and is in the process of amending the related reimbursement requests.
The TIFIA program is a federally funded loan, which is not a typical federal funding
arrangement that RTD has encountered previously; therefore, the loan program
reimbursements were not subjected to the same internal controls as federally
funded reimbursement grants. We recommended that the RTD Grant Accountant
prepare all reimbursement requests for all federal funds including both grant and
federal loan programs.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 142
10

Status Of Prior-Year Observations
And Suggestions (Continued)
Regional Transportation District

PRIOR-YEAR INTERNAL CONTROL
OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
Recode Of Transactions (Recurring):

MANAGEMENT RESPONSE
Partially implemented

RTD regularly recodes transactions to allocate expenditures:
From a general project to a specific task within the project
From one federal source to another
From one project to another
From local sources to federal sources
The recodes occur for various reasons not limited to correcting errors, utilizing
different funding sources or refining/finalizing the accounting for a project. The
recode entries are created by the budget analyst and reapproved by the individuals
who approved the original transactions. The Accounting Manager then reviews and
approves posting of the entry. While the Accounting Manager will consult with the
FasTracks Program Control Manager or the Chief Financial Officer, depending on
the nature and sensitivity of the recode, there is no other formal documentation
regarding approval of the recode. We recommended that management continue to
enhance the policy whereby recodes that meet certain quantitative or qualitative
characteristics, such as a change in funding source or project, be approved by the
Program Control Manager or other appropriate designated individual.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 143
11

Status Of Prior-Year Observations
And Suggestions (Continued)
Regional Transportation District

PRIOR-YEAR INTERNAL CONTROL
OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
Information Technology Governance And Controls (Recurring):

MANAGEMENT RESPONSE
Partially implemented

During our engagements, we noted RTD’s continuing work to enhance the general
IT governance and controls, including business continuity, cyber-security and
emerging technologies.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 144
12

Impact Of GASB 68 - Accounting And
Financial Reporting For Pensions
Regional Transportation District
RTD’s Governmental Activities - Net Position (Adjusted For Pension)
December 31,
2015
Pension Adj.
Current assets
Capital assets
Other noncurrent assets
Deferred outflows of resources

$

861,962,000
6,131,608,000
357,908,000
36,331,000

—
—
—
41,405,000

$

2015 CAFR
$

861,962,000
6,131,608,000
357,908,000
77,736,000

Total Assets And Deferred Outflows

7,387,809,000

41,405,000

7,429,214,000

Current liabilities
Noncurrent liabilities
Deferred inflows of resources

290,568,000
3,635,392,000
599,000

—
321,615,000
4,102,000

290,568,000
3,957,007,000
4,701,000

Total Liabilities And Deferred Inflows

3,926,559,000

325,717,000

4,252,276,000

Net investment in capital assets

3,238,931, 000

—

3,238,931,000

174,575,000
47,744,000

—
(284,312,000)

174,575,000
(236,568,000)

Restricted
Unrestricted
Total Net Position

$

3,461,250,000

$

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

—

$

3,176,938,000

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 145
13

Foresights - Financial Accounting
And Reporting
Regional Transportation District

GASB Statement No. 72, Fair Value Measurements and Application
Effective for 2016 RTD year end
Makes fair value reporting and disclosures comparable to for-profit Financial Accounting
Standards Board accounting and reporting
Public Private Partnership Accounting
Project will achieve completion in 2016 and will require additional accounting and reporting
considerations upon acceptance of the project by RTD.
Liabilities for related TABOR Service Payments and Service Payments
GASB Statement NO. 75, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Postemployment Benefits Other
Than Pensions
Effective for 2018 RTD year end
Similar effect to GASB 68 for other postemployement benefits (Health and Welfare Plans)

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 146
14

Independent Auditors’ Report On
Additional Information
Regional Transportation District

Our report on our audit of the basic financial statements of RTD for December 31, 2015 appears in the financial
statements of RTD. That audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements
taken as a whole. The additional information in this document has been presented for purposes of additional analysis
and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. Such information has not been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements, and accordingly, we express no opinion on it.

May 5, 2016

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 147
15

Regional Transportation District

Attachments

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 148
16

2.11.D.b
5/4/2016
3:54 PM
35357.0000 - Regional Transportation District
2015 AUD - Regional Transportation District
12/31/2015
TB Database
3001 - Adjusting Journal Entries Report

Account

Description

Adjusting Journal Entries JE # 1
To adjust equity by an immaterial difference.
40170
39911

Misc Operating Revenue
Y-T-D Retained Deficit

Total

W/P Ref

Debit

Credit

6001

221.00
221.00

221.00
221.00

Adjusting Journal Entries JE # 2
PBC - Accrual Journal Entry
53075
30112
Total

Contract Maintenance
Manual Accruals

10,500,000.00
10,500,000.00

10,500,000.00
10,500,000.00

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Client:
Engagement:
Period Ending:
Trial Balance:
Workpaper:

1 of 1

Packet Pg. 149

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 150

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 151

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 152

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 153

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 154

Attachment: Regional Transportation District 2015 ViewPoints FINAL (2792 : 2015 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.D.b

Packet Pg. 155

2.11.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

May 18, 2016

Subject:

Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 18, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution No. ______ amending the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e.,
Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan to provide for appointment of the same
four employee trustees for each of the plans, with two trustees being employee participants in the
Pension Plan, and two being employee participants in the Defined Contribution Plan. The resolution
further provides that the three existing employee trustees serving both plans remain as trustees with
revised termination dates to assure continued staggered terms, and that a fourth employee be appointed
to replace retired trustee Marla Lien.
BACKGROUND
RTD has a Salaried Employee Pension Plan which has been closed to new participants after 2007, and a
Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan covering employees hired since then. The above Plans have
the same set of seven trustees serving both plans: two Director Trustees, RTD’s Chief Financial Officer
as a permanent trustee, and four employees. For the four employees, since 2008 the Plans have
specified that two trustees are to be “senior managers” (defined as AGM level employees) and two are
to be “middle managers.” This structure was intended to prevent Trustees from being drawn exclusively
from higher-level employees, and to give lower-level employees more opportunity for representation.
The “senior manager”-“middle manager” distinction was put in place by RTD Board resolution when RTD
converted to a Defined Contribution (DC) plan for all new employees starting in 2008.
Due to their seniority with RTD, many “senior managers” as well as “middle managers” are participants
in the Pension Plan rather than the DC plan. The current rule also prevents more junior employees, or
senior employees who do not happen to be “managers” (for example, professionals) from being able to
seek representation on the Trust.
To ensure that both plans have representation on the combined Trusts, and consistent with the 2008
goal to have more than highest-level employees on the Trusts, it is recommended that the Board revise
the selection process to specify that going forward, two employee trustees serving both trusts will be
Pension Plan participants and two will be DC Plan participants. (At some point all Pension Plan
beneficiaries may no longer be current employees due to retirement, but that point will not be reached
for several decades.)
The resolution also restores staggered trustee terms, re-appoints existing trustees to new terms, and
adds a new trustee who is a member of the Defined Contribution plan.
The attorney for the trusts, Stephen Weinstein of Berenbaum Weinshienk PC, has reviewed the proposal
and has approved the resolution as to legal form for the Trusts. Mr. Weinstein concurs that the Board is
empowered to approve this amendment; no vote by the Trustees is required or contemplated, although

Packet Pg. 156

2.11.E

the proposed resolution and this recommended action has been shared with the trustees for review and
comment.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action and approve the attached resolution amending the Trust plan.
This is recommended to restore staggered terms, replace the retired trustee, and assure continued
representation going forward.
2. Reject the Recommended Action and the attached resolution, and require staff to return with a
revised recommendation. This is not recommended since the attached Recommended Action has
been reviewed by the Trusts’ attorney and current trustees, and is consistent with the goals of
existing Board resolutions.
ATTACHMENTS:


2016-05-16 Proposed Resolution regarding Salaried Trusts

(DOC)

Prepared by:
Rolf Asphaug, Deputy General Counsel
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 157

2.11.E.a

APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES TO THE RTD SALARIED EMPLOYEES’ PENSION TRUST
AND RTD SALARIED EMPLOYEES’ DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN TRUST

Whereas, RTD maintains the RTD Salaried Employees' Pension Plan and Trust ("Pension Plan"
or "Pension Trust") for salaried employees hired by RTD before January 1, 2008 and the RTD Salaried
Employees' Defined Contribution Plan and Trust ("Defined Contribution Plan" or "Defined Contribution
Trust") for salaried employees hired on or after January 1, 2008, which may collectively be referred to
as the "Trusts"; and,
Whereas, two RTD Board Directors and five salaried employees serve as the same sets of
trustees for each of the above Trusts as further described below; and,
Whereas, on January 8, 2008 the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 1 Series of
2008 providing that a screening committee composed of the Board Chair, the Chair of the Salaried
Employee Pension Trust Fund and the Finance Chair (i.e., Chair of the Finance Administration and
Audit Committee) will screen applications from the middle management salaried employee class and the
senior management salaried employee class and will bring recommendations back to the Board; and,
Whereas, on December 16, 2008 the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 19 Series
of 2008 amending Section 7.01 of the Pension Trust and Section 7.01 of the Defined Contribution Trust
regarding appointment of Trustees, to provide that each Trustee who is a member of the Board of
Directors of RTD shall serve a term concurrent with his or her elected term, and one senior management
and one middle management Trustee shall each serve a three year term, and one senior management and
one middle Trustee shall each serve a two year term; and
Whereas, on November 10, 2010 the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 27 Series
of 2010, making additional modifications to state that for reappointment of Trustees who have served
satisfactorily and in whose education the Trusts have made substantial investments, it is not necessary to
seek applications for renewal, and instead the application process established by the RTD Board of
Directors in 2008 will be used on those occasions when the Board finds it necessary or appropriate to
appoint new salaried trustees to the Trusts; and
Whereas, the Defined Contribution Trust has now been in existence since 2008, and there are
now both senior and middle management RTD employees, as well as other RTD employees who are not
managers, participating in the Pension Trust or the Defined Contribution Trust and who may be well
qualified for consideration for appointment as trustees; and
Whereas, the RTD Board of Directors wishes to amend the Pension Trust and the Defined
Contribution Trust, to end the “senior” and “middle” management distinction, and instead authorize the
Board of Directors to appoint two employee Trustees who participate in the Pension Plan and two who
participate in the Defined Contribution Plan, in addition to the two Board members who are appointed to

Attachment: 2016-05-16 Proposed Resolution regarding Salaried Trusts (2795 : Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
("RTD")
RESOLUTION No. _____ SERIES OF 2016

1

Packet Pg. 158

2.11.E.a

Whereas, the RTD Board of Directors wishes to ensure that the four appointed employees on the
Trusts serve staggered terms as contemplated in Resolution No. 19 Series of 2008; and
Whereas, senior management Trustee Marla Lien has retired from RTD, and the terms for senior
management Trustee Scott Reed, middle management Trustee Sylvia Francis, and middle management
Trustee Luong (Lou) Ha will all expire on 12/31/2017; and
Whereas, Scott Reed, and Luong (Lou) Ha are Pension Plan participants, and Sylvia Francis is a
Defined Contribution Plan participant, requiring the RTD Board of Directors to appoint an additional
participant in the Defined Contribution Plan as a trustee, and adjust the terms of service of the remaining
employee Trustees, to accomplish the above goals; and
Whereas, consistent with the direction in the above 2008 and 2010 Resolutions, the Board
Chair, the Chair of the Salaried Employee Pension Trust and the Finance Administration and Audit
Committee Chair have considered employees to serve as trustees in accordance with this Resolution, and
recommend that the Pension Plan and Defined Contribution Plan participating employees listed below in
this Resolution be appointed as Trustees by the Board for the terms set forth below; and
Whereas, after approval of this Resolution the trustee vacancy will be filled from a Defined
Contribution Plan participating employee consistent with this Resolution and the amended Trust
Agreements.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
1. The RTD Board of Directors thanks retired Trustee Marla Lien for her long, dedicated and
exemplary service to the Trusts.
2. The RTD Board of Directors hereby repeals and restates Section 7.01 of each of the Trusts to
read as follows, effective immediately:
7.01. Appointment and Term of Trustees. Seven (7) persons in number shall be appointed by
the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of RTD, provided, however, such appointment shall
not become effective until there is approval thereof by resolution adopted by the Board of
Directors of RTD. Two (2) of such appointees shall be members of the Board of Directors of
RTD, one (1) shall be the RTD Chief Financial officer, and four (4) shall be salaried employees
of RTD. Of the four salaried employees, two members shall be participants in the Salaried
Employees’ Defined Benefit Plan and two shall be participants in the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan. The four (4) salaried employees shall each serve a two (2) year term
commencing January 1 and ending December 31 (or until they are re-appointed or their
successor is appointed, if later), except that the Board of Directors of RTD may by resolution
establish different terms for newly-appointed employee Trustees as may be necessary to maintain
the staggered terms of the categories of employee Trustees. Each Trustee who is a member of the
2

Attachment: 2016-05-16 Proposed Resolution regarding Salaried Trusts (2795 : Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement)

the Trusts and the Chief Financial Officer who is a permanent member of the Trusts, to serve as the
same set of trustees on both of the Trusts; and

Packet Pg. 159

2.11.E.a

3. In further compliance with the above restated Section 7.01, the RTD Board of Directors hereby
re-appoints Luong (Lou) Ha to a term ending 12/31/2016 and Scott Reed to a term ending
12/31/2017, with these two employees serving as Trustees who are Pension Plan participants;
and (2) re-appoints Sylvia Francis to a term ending 12/31/2016, serving as a Trustee who is a
Defined Contribution Plan participants. The term of the second Trustee who is a Defined
Contribution Plan participant shall end 12/31/2017.
4. A screening committee composed of the Board Chair, the Chair of the Salaried Employee
Pension Trust and the Chair of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee, in consultation
with the Chief Financial Officer, will be established to review applications for employee trustees
going forward, including applications for the second Trustee who is a defined Contribution Plan
participant as described above, and will bring recommendations back to the Board; provided,
however, that for reappointment of trustees who have served satisfactorily and in whose
education the Trusts have made substantial investments, it is not necessary to seek applications
for renewal, and the application process will be used on those occasions when the Board finds it
necessary or appropriate to appoint new salaried employee trustees to the Trusts.
5. The RTD Board of Directors hereby reaffirms that Directors Tom Tobiassen and Judy Lubow
remain as Trustees until their terms as Directors expire, and that Chief Financial Officer Heather
Copp remains as a Trustee in her capacity as RTD CFO.
Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District this ___th day of
______________, 2016.
______________________
Paul Solano
Secretary

_____________________
Tom Tobiassen
Chair

Attachment: 2016-05-16 Proposed Resolution regarding Salaried Trusts (2795 : Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement)

Board of Directors of RTD shall serve a term concurrent with such Director’s term on the Board
of Directors of RTD.

3

Packet Pg. 160

2.11.E.a

DEFINED BENEFIT (PENSION) TRUST:
Name of Trustee
Judy Lubow, Director
Tom Tobiassen, Director
Scott Reed (PP* Employee)
(Vacant) (DC* Employee)
Luong (Lou) Ha (PP* Employee)
Sylvia Francis (DC* Employee)
Heather Copp, CFO

Term Expiration Date
12/31/2016
12/31/2016
12/31/2017
12/31/2017
12/31/2016
12/31/2016
Permanent Member

DEFINED CONTRIBUTION TRUST:
Name of Trustee
Judy Lubow, Director
Tom Tobiassen, Director
Scott Reed (PP* Employee)
(Vacant) (DC* Employee)
Luong (Lou) Ha (PP* Employee)
Sylvia Francis (DC* Employee)
Heather Copp, CFO

Term Expiration Date
12/31/2016
12/31/2016
12/31/2017
12/31/2017
12/31/2016
12/31/2016
Permanent Member

*PP = Pension Plan participant; DC = Defined Contribution Plan participant

Attachment: 2016-05-16 Proposed Resolution regarding Salaried Trusts (2795 : Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement)

For information purposes:

4

Packet Pg. 161

2.11.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 19, 2016

From:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager,
Rail Operations

GM

Date:

May 19, 2016

Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

Subject:

Authorization to Enter into a Contract with
Motorola Solutions for Purchase of Radios
(56DH012)

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a $940,000 sole source contract with
Motorola Solutions(Motorola) for purchase of mobile, portable and tower radios and associated
equipment (Contract Number 56DH012). This contract will include an option for a 3-year extended
warranty.
BACKGROUND:
RTD uses a Motorola P25 digital trunked radio system for 2-way voice communications throughout the
district by many operational business units. This system was purchased as part of the Radio and
Computer Aided Dispatch/Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Replacement Project in 2010.
RTD is opening several rail lines in 2016, including additional light rail service for the new R Line. As
such, there will be additional Light Rail Vehicles (LRVs) and increased need for security and fare
enforcement officers. These LRVs and officers need radios to perform effectively. These radios are not
essential for the April 22nd launch of the University of Colorado A Line, but should be procured before
any other lines are opened.
Additionally, RTD’s Gunbarrel radio tower requires additional capacity. New repeaters are included in
this purchase to provide additional capacity. The radio combiner in this purchase is to replace a broken
combiner.
DISCUSSION:
As part of participation in the Public Safety radio network, all tower equipment is required to be
Motorola equipment to maintain system consistency of operations throughout the network. Additionally,
RTD currently has close to 3000 Motorola mobile and portable radios that were selected as part of a
competitive bid process. There would be additional costs for system keys, programming cables,
programming software and training associated with procurement of other radio brands. Therefore,
subscriber radios will have a higher operating cost than the recommended Motorola Radios. Additionally,
the network equipment on the public safety radio system RTD uses is manufactured by Motorola. It is
required that the network equipment remain Motorola for effective management of the network and as a
requirement of the Consolidated Communications Network of Colorado (CCNC), the managing
organization for the radio network.
RTD, as a political subdivision of the State of Colorado may buy equipment off of the existing,
competitively-procured Western States Contract Alliance (WSCA) Public Safety Communication
Equipment contract. A sole source justification memo to use the competitively-procured WSCA contract
has been approved.

Packet Pg. 162

2.11.F

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The cost of the subscriber radios is funded in the 2015 capital budget. The tower radios are funded
from the Radio-CAD/AVL budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a $940,000 sole source
contract with Motorola Solutions (Motorola) for purchase of mobile, portable and tower radios
and associated equipment (Contract Number 56DH012). This contract will include an option
for a 3-year extended warranty.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Motorola
Solutions to purchase needed radio equipment. This action would result in RTD’s inability to
effectively supply security officers with needed radios, provide additional needed capacity for
tower sites, repair a tower site with faulty equipment and provide some of the radios
necessary for the opening of the R line. This is not the recommended action.

Prepared by:
John Tarbert, Acting AGM, Safety, Security and Facilities
Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 163

2.11.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 19, 2016

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

May 19, 2016

Subject:

2016 Title VI Program Update

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors adopt
the 2016 Title VI Program Update to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title
VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to Section 12 of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Master Agreement, RTD must comply
with 49 CFR part 21 and FTA Circular 4702.1B, which effectuates Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 (Title VI), as a condition of federal financial assistance. Title VI prohibits discrimination on the
basis of race, color and national origin from recipients of federal financial assistance (grants, loans, etc.).
DISCUSSION
Per FTA Circular 4702.1B, Title VI Requirements and Guidelines for Federal Transit Administration
Recipients, RTD is required to submit a Title VI Program Update every three years. The Title VI Program
Update details the manner in which RTD intends to achieve compliance with the following objectives of
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964:
1. To ensure that FTA-assisted benefits and related services are made available and are equitably
distributed without regard to race, color, or national origin;
2. To ensure that the level and quality of FTA-assisted transit services are sufficient to provide equal
access and mobility for any person without regard to race, color or national origin;
3. To ensure that opportunities to participate in the transit planning and decision-making are
provided to persons without regard to race, color or national origin;
4. To ensure that decisions on the location of transit services and facilities are made without regard
to race, color or national origin; and
5. To ensure that corrective and remedial action is taken to prevent disparate impacts borne by any
beneficiary based on race, color, or national origin.
The update itself includes an Executive Summary and is an attachment to the board report. The
appendices of this document contain a high volume of pages (over 300), thus the appendices will be
made available separately in the Board Office for review.

Packet Pg. 164

2.11.G

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The adoption of the 2016 Title VI Program Update does not result in any direct or foreseeable financial
impacts.
ALTERNATIVES
1) Accept the recommended action by the Operations and Customer Service Committee. It is
recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors adopt
the 2016 Title VI Program Update to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
2) Do not accept the recommended action by the Operations and Customer Service Committee. This
action is not recommended as it is against federal law and would jeopardize current and future
federal funding.
ATTACHMENTS:


2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 (PPTX)



2016 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary (DOCX)

Prepared by:
Mike Washington, Title VI Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 165

2016 Title VI Program Update
Overview
May 24, 2016

Transit-Oriented Communities Division

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 166

The Civil Rights Act of 1964
The Civil Rights Act of 1964 generally prohibits
discrimination on the basis of Race, Color, National
Origin, Gender and Religion in the following areas:
Ø Title I: Voting
Ø Title II: Public Accommodation
Ø Title III: Public Spaces
Ø Title IV: Desegregation of Schools
Ø Title V: Commission on Civil Rights
Ø Title VI: Federally Assisted Programs
Ø Title VII: Employment
2

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 167

Title VI - Overview
Recipients of Federal financial assistance are
prohibited from subjecting any person to
discrimination on the basis of:
• Race
• Color
• National origin
3

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 168

Discrimination Defined
Title VI specifically prohibits two types of
discrimination:
1. Disparate Treatment: Intentional Discrimination
that results in less favorable treatment on the
basis of Race, Color or National Origin.
2. Disparate Impact: Facially neutral policy results
in a disproportionate impact on a particular
Race, Color or National Origin.
4

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 169

Consequences of Discrimination
1. Disparate Treatment:
a) Suable offense
b) Suspension, termination or
refusal of federal funding

2. Disparate Impact:
a) Suspension, termination or
refusal of federal funding

5

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 170

Major Activities
FTA Circular 4702.1B prescribes the following measures to guide
recipients in the promotion of socially equitable transit:
• Equity Analyses
• System-Wide Service Standards and Policies
• Service Monitoring
• Public Engagement

6

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 171

Title VI and Environmental Justice
In

Practice

7
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 172

Our Philosophy
• Meeting Community Where They Are
• Identify Generalizable Concerns
• Build Rapport with the Community
• Partner with the Community

8

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 173

EJ Communities
Globeville,
Elyria
Swansea

Parkhill

Montbello

Green
Valley
Ranch
Five
Points

9

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 174

Our Challenge
• Circulation of Misinformation
• Concerns of Access to Transit
• Trust
• Transparency
10

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 175

Our Goals
• Illustrate Benefits of Service Changes
• Remediate Misunderstandings
• Listen and Consider Community Concerns

11

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 176

Our Strategy

Ride-a-Route
Bus Operator Outreach
Table Talks
Know Your Routes

12
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 177

Ride-a-Route
Volunteers

Bus Operators
13
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 178

Table Talks

14
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 179

Know Your Routes

4 Communities
4 Locations
4 Artists
4 Caterers

15
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 180

Globeville, Elyria-Swansea

16
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 181

Park Hill

17
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 182

Montbello

18
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 183

Five Points

19
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 184

Our Lessons Learned
• Colorado Weather
• Marketing
• Data Collection
• Measuring Success
• Get to know Customers

20

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 185

Our Success
“Great event! Very informational and honest, thanks for
the maps, the food and the joy.” ~ Jessica

“ I know y’all didn’t have to do this. But if no one else tells
you… I appreciate y’all. ~ Montbello Rider

21

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 186

Our Customers

22
Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 187

Questions?
Michael Washington
Title VI Manager
michael.washington@rtd-denver.com
303-299-2436
Shontel Lewis
Title VI Specialist
shontel.lewis@rtd-denver.com
303-299-2184
23

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Update Board Presentation (May 2016 [Revision 1] (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program

2.11.G.a

Packet Pg. 188

TITLE VI PROGRAM
UPDATE

May 2016
Equitable distribution of transit service is a core principle of the
Regional Transportation District. This document describes the measures
taken to promote equitable transit service as stipulated by Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order 12898

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.G.b

(Environmental Justice).

By The Transit-Oriented Communities Division

Packet Pg. 189

2.11.G.b
Title VI Program Update

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program Update)

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................................................ 2
Title VI and Environmental Justice ......................................................................................................... 2
Demographic Profile ................................................................................................................................ 3
Complaints ................................................................................................................................................. 3
Subrecipient ............................................................................................................................................... 4
Public Participation and Language Assistance.................................................................................... 4
Service Standards and Transit Monitoring .......................................................................................... 5
Fare and Service Change Equity Analyses ......................................................................................... 5
Equity Analysis Policies ......................................................................................................................... 5
Equity Analyses Completed ................................................................................................................. 6
CONCLUSION ...................................................................................................................... 6

Page 1

Packet Pg. 190

2.11.G.b
Title VI Program Update

Title VI Program Update
MAY 2016

Title VI and Environmental Justice
Equity is a core principle of the Regional Transportation District’s (RTD) mission to provide mass transit service
in the Denver Metro Area. An equitable mass transit system fairly distributes the benefits and adverse effects
of transit service without regard for race, color, national origin, or low-income status. This principle is detailed
and reinforced by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and Executive Order 12898 pertaining to
environmental justice.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits
discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national
origin in programs receiving federal financial
assistance. Specifically, Title VI states, “No person in
the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or
national origin, be excluded from participation in, be
denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity receiving
Federal financial assistance.”
In 1994, President Clinton issued Executive Order
12898, which states that each federal agency “shall
make achieving environmental justice part of its mission
by identifying and addressing disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects of
its programs, policies, and activities on minority populations and low-income populations.”
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial assistance
with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI and Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA
requires that RTD document measures taken to comply with DOT’s Title VI regulations by submitting a Title VI
Program to their FTA regional civil rights officer once every three years or as otherwise directed by FTA.
In this Title VI program update, the Transit Oriented Communities Division has compiled a documentation of
compliance efforts made from June of 2013 – June of 2016. Below is an overview of the collection of
documents and information that comprise the 2016 Title VI Program Update.

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program Update)

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Page 2

Packet Pg. 191

2.11.G.b
Title VI Program Update

Demographic Profile

The following tables depict the demographic profile of the District.
TABLE 1 – RTD SERVICE AREA DEMOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN
Total
Population
of Service
Area*

Minority
Population*

Percent
Minority

Total
Households**

Households
LowIncome**

Percent
Households
Low-income

2,680,920
765,388
29%
1,166,375
250,144
21%
* U.S. Census Bureau – 2010 Census ** U.S. Census Bureau – American Community Survey (2013)
Total system ridership is disproportionately minority (41%) and low-income (48%).
TABLE 2 – RTD RIDERSHIP DEMORGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN***

Demographic

Total System

Bus

Light Rail

Call-n-Ride

SkyRide

Non-Minority
Minority
Low-Income
Non-LowIncome

59%
41%
48%

57%
43%
51%

65%
35%
42%

70%
30%
36%

60%
40%
28%

49%
58%
64%
***RTD – Customer Satisfaction Survey 2014

72%

52%

An analysis of the Census data, Customer Satisfaction Surveys and Demographic Profile maps reveals minority
and low-income ridership are predominately located within the densely populated urban communities of the
District. Customer Satisfaction Survey data shows Denver Local and Limited Bus service is primarily utilized by
minority and low-income populations.
For detailed information pertaining to the District’s minority and low-income populations please observe the
Demographic Profile Maps and Customer Satisfaction Survey data included as appendices to this document.

Complaints
Federal recipients are also required to directly accept, log and investigate complaints of discrimination.
Further, recipients are required to notify the public of their right to complain and the procedures for
processing their complaint. In the appendix is a copy of the Title VI public notice placed on all RTD vehicles,
and a table summarizing complaints received and their status (open, closed, etc…).

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program Update)

RTD’s 2,340 square mile service area (primarily consisting of the Denver Metro area) is inhabited by 2.7
million people, living in diverse communities, with geographically dispersed high-concentrations of minorities
(above 29% representation in a Census tract/block group) and low-income populations (above 21%
representation in a Census tract/block group).

Page 3

Packet Pg. 192

2.11.G.b
Title VI Program Update

Subrecipient

The RTD Title VI Manager will ensure the following actions are taken affirming that RTD and its sub-recipients
comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and FTA Circular 4702.1B:
1. Each year sub-recipients must provide RTD with an FTA Civil Rights Assurance/Signed Assurance that
all records and other information required under FTA Circular 4702.1B have been or will be
compiled, as appropriate, and maintained;
2. Each sub-recipient must implement a Title VI complaint process and provide RTD with a list of active
lawsuits and Civil Rights Complaint summary alleging discrimination on the basis of race, color or
national origin;
3. Each sub-recipient must post its Title VI Policy Statement in prominent, conspicuous and accessible
locations throughout its facilities;
4. Sub-recipients must take responsible steps to ensure meaningful access to the benefits, services,
information, and other important portions of their programs and activities for individuals who are
Limited English Proficient (LEP).
In general, sub-recipients should have a public participation process that offers early and continuous
opportunities for the public to be involved in the identification of social, economic, and environmental impacts
of proposed transportation decisions. Efforts to involve minority and low-income people in public involvement
activities can include both comprehensive measures, such as placing public notices at all stations and in all
vehicles, and measures targeted to overcome linguistic, institutional, cultural, economic, historical, or other
barriers that may prevent minority and low-income populations from effectively participating in a recipient’s
decision-making. Sub-recipients must file with RTD documentation of its public participation plan.
Each sub-recipient further agrees to comply
with, and assure compliance by its third party
subcontractors at any tier under the Project, with
all requirements of the FTA Title VI Program
pursuant to FTA Circular 4702.1B and 49 CFR
21.5(b)(2) and 49 CFR 21 .5(b)(7), Appendix C
to 49 CFR Part 21.

Public
Par ticipation
Language Assistance

and

Included in this Title VI Program Update are a
revised Public Participation Plan and Language
Assistance Plan. These plans detail how RTD
engages minority populations, low-income
populations, and populations that are LEP. The Public Participation Plan also describes RTD’s approach to
achieving diversity on its non-elected advisory committee(s). Examples of these plans in their entirety are
included in the appendix.

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program Update)

RTD’s sub-recipients of federal financial assistance must also comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964. To meet its enforcement responsibilities under Title VI, RTD has implemented a sub-recipient monitoring
process.

Page 4

Packet Pg. 193

2.11.G.b
Title VI Program Update

FTA Circular 4702.1b Chapter VI requires fixed-route service providers of Urbanized Areas with a
population of 200,000 or more to establish service standards and monitor their service to ensure service is
provided accordingly. Service standards guide fixed-route service providers toward objective decisionmaking in the provision of service. The FTA further expects transit agencies to monitor their services to ensure
service is provided in a non-discriminatory manner. Service is monitored by comparing a sampling of nonminority routes and minority routes, defined as 1/3 of revenue mileage borders census blocks with a minority
population greater than the service area average. No disparities were found during the transit monitoring of
this reporting period. The RTD service standards and transit monitoring results can be found in the appendix.

Fare and Service Change Equity Analyse s
The FTA requires RTD to establish policies that will guide the analysis to determine whether major service
changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on minority or low-income populations. Accordingly,
RTD established equity analysis policies and a service evaluation process to meet this requirement.

Equity Analysis Policies
Per FTA Circular 4702.1B Chapter IV.7, RTD must establish a Major Service Change Policy, a Disparate
Impact Policy, and a Disproportionate Burden Policy. Collectively, these policies provide foundational
requirements for evaluating service change proposals for equity. These policies and their applicable
thresholds are listed below:
1. Major Service Change Policy: A major service change is defined as a 25 percent addition or
reduction in the service hours of any route that would remain in effect for twelve (12) or more months.
All major service changes will be subject to an equity analysis that includes an analysis of adverse
effects.
a. Adverse Effect is defined as a geographical or temporal reduction in service that includes, but
is not limited to: eliminating a route, shortening a route by eliminating segments, rerouting an
existing route, and increasing headways. RTD shall consider the degree of adverse effects
and analyze those effects when planning major service changes.
2. Disparate Impact Policy: A major service change should not adversely affect a minority population
10 percent more than non-minority populations; this level of impact is considered a disparate impact.
3. Disproportionate Burden Policy: A major service change should not adversely affect a low-income
population 10 percent more than non-low-income
populations; this level of impact is considered a
disproportionate burden. A low-income population
is a group of households who are at or below 150
percent of the Department of Health and Human
Services Poverty Guidelines.
If a proposed major service change results in a
disparate impact or a disproportionate burden,
RTD will consider modifying the proposed service
change. RTD will then analyze the modification and
make sure it removed the potential disparate
impact or disproportionate burden. If a less
discriminatory option cannot be identified and RTD
can demonstrate a substantial legitimate
justification for the proposed service change, the

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program Update)

Service Standards and Transit Monitoring

Page 5

Packet Pg. 194

2.11.G.b
Title VI Program Update

FTA may allow RTD to proceed with the proposed change.
The board approved policies can be found in the appendix.

This program update includes the results of both fare and service change equity analyses completed between
February 2013 and April 2016. Included with the results of each equity analysis are the proposed changes
and Board of Directors Meeting Minutes associated with the proposed change. Below is a list of each
proposed change that required an equity analysis during this reporting period:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

January Service Change (2015)
May Service Change (2015)
Fare Study (2015)
August Service Change (2015)
US 36 (Flatiron Flyer) Service Plan (2015)
East and I-225 Corridor Service Plan (2015)
Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan (2016)

Each proposed change and corresponding equity analysis can be found in the appendix.

CONCLUSION
During this reporting period, RTD performed extensive public engagement, completed several equity analyses
for major fare and service changes and found no probable cause in any official Title VI complaints. The
comprehensive analysis and monitoring efforts described in this document succeeded in promoting the
equitable provision of transit service in the Denver Metro Area. This snapshot summarizes RTD’s effort to not
only comply with the requirements of FTA Circular 4702.1B, but to advance social equity through policy and
public engagement.

Attachment: 2016 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary (2806 : 2016 Title VI Program Update)

Equity Analyses Completed

Page 6

Packet Pg. 195

2.12.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 4, 2016

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 4, 2016

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

State Legislative Liaison Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state legislative liaison services with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2016 through
June 29, 2017) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-00, at a cost of $122,000, pursuant to the Contract
Award agreement.
BACKGROUND
Contract 13-DX-001 for State Legislative Liaison Services was signed with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs, effective July 1, 2013, and contained a provision for four (4) additional one-year option
periods. This board action would exercise the option for Year 3 of the option years. Of extreme
importance, the lobbyists are in daily contact with state legislators regarding bills that RTD seeks to have
passed, as well as regarding bills that would be harmful to RTD.
DISCUSSION
The state lobbying team provides guidance and direction for the RTD Board of Directors and staff in
their relationships with the General Assembly members. Constant monitoring of the activities within
the General Assembly and the Executive Office of the state of Colorado is required, and RTD’s
interests must be conveyed to appropriate legislators, including testifying before certain committees.
Advice and assistance in drafting legislation are also provided by the lobbying team. When RTD has
had legislation before the General Assembly, Brandeberry~McKenna has an excellent record of
making certain that these bills pass and become part of the Colorado statutes.
As part of the services, frequent contact is made with RTD staff and board members regarding various
bills in the legislature; written summary reports are issued on a weekly basis during the legislative
session; and status reports are given at the Government Relations Committee meetings while the
General Assembly is in session and as deemed necessary thereafter.
The Brandeberry~McKenna team also takes the initiative to educate state legislators on RTD issues and
projects so that these legislators understand mass transit and RTD’s mission.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the Recommended Action. It is recommended by RTD’s Government Relations Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for state
legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year
option (June 30, 2016 through June 29, 2017) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of
$122,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
2. Do not approve the Recommended Action.
Do not accept the recommendation by the
Government Relations Committee that authorizes the General Manager to enter into a contract to
execute the state legislative liaison services one-year option agreement. A new Request for

Packet Pg. 196

2.12.H

Proposals could be sent to interested parties, interviews conducted, and a different state lobbying
firm could possibly be selected by the Government Relations Committee and retained. This action
is not recommended because it is the consensus of the Government Relations Committee to
recommend to the Board the selection of the Brandeberry~McKenna team.
3. Do not approve the Recommended Action. Do not retain the services of a state legislative liaison
firm. This action is not recommended because it would put RTD in the position of facing
contentious and potentially harmful legislative issues with no direct legislative liaison services. It
was determined by the Government Relations Committee that the Brandeberry~McKenna team
has been very effective in pursuing the RTD state legislative agenda and will continue to
represent RTD’s interests very well in the future. This team is very familiar with RTD’s issues
and policies.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 197

2.12.I

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

May 18, 2016

Subject:

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to
the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds,
Series 2016A

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 18, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Finance Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional
Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2016A.
BACKGROUND:
The FasTracks financial plan anticipates the financing of certain components of the FasTracks
projects including the District’s Southeast Rail Extension Project and financing additional costs of the
FasTracks Projects including EAGLE, I-225, North Metro and related costs of issuance. The Bonds
will finance these FasTracks improvements, fund associated reserve accounts if deemed necessary
and costs of issuance.
The resolution also allows for the potential refinancing of the Series 2010A and Series 2012A
FasTracks bonds if economically beneficial to RTD and generates more than a 3% present value
savings at the time of the issuance of the Series 2016A bonds.
The Chief Financial Officer has taken preliminary actions to arrange for the issuance and sale of the
bonds, including assembling financial information related to the District and drafting a preliminary
official statement, bond indenture, continuing disclosure agreement, bond purchase agreement and
the Resolution for issuance of the Bonds. The Board is being requested, through the Resolution, to
authorize the issuance, to establish the terms and to approve agreements required in connection with
the issuance of the Bonds.
DISCUSSION:
To date, the District has issued the following parity bonds to fund the FasTracks Projects:

Issue
Series 2006A
Series 2007A
Series 2010A
Series 2010B
TIFIA 2010
Series 2012A
Series 2013A

$
$
$
$
$
$
$

Amount
600,000,000
363,725,000
79,140,000
300,000,000
280,000,000
474,935,000
204,820,000

Use
Project Funds
Refinancing
Project Funds
Project Funds
Project Funds
Project Funds
Refinancing

Final Payment
2036
2036
2038
2050
2045
2037
2036

Packet Pg. 198

2.12.I

Through the Resolution, the Board is being asked to authorize the issuance of the Bonds and to
approve parameters subject to the restrictions and parameters outlined in the Section 4 of the
Resolution; namely that the principal amount of the Bonds shall not exceed $200,000,000; the final
maturity on the Bonds shall not extend beyond December 1, 2046; the maximum net effective
interest rate on the Bonds shall not exceed 7.00% and the combined purchase price of the Bonds
shall not be less than 98%.
Drafts of documents referenced in the Bond Resolution including the Bond Indenture, the Continuing
Disclosure Agreement, the Preliminary Official Statement and the Bond Purchase Agreement are
available for review in the Board Office.
RTD is receiving the advice of First Southwest Company, as independent financial advisor, Butler
Snow LLP as Bond Counsel, and Hogan Lovells as Disclosure Counsel in regard to the Bonds. The
Bonds will be underwritten by a team including Goldman Sachs, Royal Bank of Canada Capital
Markets, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Piper Jaffray and Harvestons Securities.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
Principal and interest costs related to the Bonds are included in the budget and the FasTracks
financial plan adopted by the board in August 2015. Costs associated with the issuance of the
securities are considered “costs of issuance” and will be funded out of Bond proceeds. These costs
include underwriter, financial advisory, attorney and, printing fees.
ALTERNATIVES:
1.
Authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No. __, Series of
2016, authorizing the issuance of the District’s Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
(FasTracks Project), Series 2016A. This is the recommended action.
2.

Do not authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No. __,
Series of 2016, authorizing the issuance of the District’s Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue
Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2016A. This is not the recommended action as it would
adversely affect RTD’s ability to complete FasTracks committed projects.

ATTACHMENTS:


1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (DOC)

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 199

RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2016
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF SALES TAX REVENUE
BONDS (FASTRACKS PROJECT), SERIES 2016A OF THE
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (COLORADO);
PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATED TO SUCH
BONDS AND THE SECURITY THEREFOR; AND
APPROVING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF
CERTAIN DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE
TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District in the City and County of
Broomfield, the City and County of Denver and the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of Colorado (the “District”) was created by the General
Assembly of the State of Colorado in 1969 by Chapter 231, Laws of Colorado 1969, which is
currently codified as Sections 32-9-101 through 32-9-164, inclusive, of the Colorado Revised
Statutes (the “Act”) and the District’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) and officers from time to
time, including the present incumbents, have been duly chosen and qualified; and
WHEREAS, Section 32-9-128 of the Act provides that the District may borrow
money in anticipation of the revenues and the sales tax proceeds of the District, but not the
proceeds of any general ad valorem property taxes, and issue special obligation bonds to
evidence the amount so borrowed; and
WHEREAS, the District is authorized by law to impose a sales tax at a rate of sixtenths of one percent (the “0.6% Sales Tax”) throughout the District and the 0.6% Sales Tax is
now being imposed and collected; and
WHEREAS, on April 22, 2004, the Board adopted a transit expansion plan known
as FasTracks (“FasTracks”); and
WHEREAS, as required by Section 32-9-107.7 of the Act, the construction of
FasTracks has been approved by the appropriate metropolitan planning organizations and by the
affirmative vote of at least two-thirds majority of the Board membership; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 32-9-119.4 of the Act, the District has obtained
voter approval at an election duly called and held within the District on November 2, 2004 (the
“2004 Election”) to increase the rate of sales tax levied by the District by four-tenths of one
percent (the “0.4% Sales Tax Increase”), from six-tenths of one percent to one percent,
commencing January 1, 2005 (which tax is now being imposed and collected), and to issue debt
in the amount of $3.477 billion, with a maximum total repayment cost of $7.129 billion, and a
maximum annual repayment cost of $309.738 million, with the proceeds of such debt and
increased taxes to be used and spent for the construction and operation of FasTracks; and
WHEREAS, Resolution No. 007, Series of 2004, which called the 2004 Election,
established a 7% maximum net effective interest rate on the aggregate indebtedness issued
pursuant to the 2004 Election; and

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

Packet Pg. 200

WHEREAS, the ballot text submitted to the voters at the 2004 Election for
approval of such tax increase and the issuance of such debt (the “2004 Election Question”) was
as follows:
SHALL REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT TAXES BE
INCREASED $158.34 MILLION ANNUALLY AND BY WHATEVER
ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS ARE RAISED ANNUALLY THEREAFTER BY
INCREASING THE RATE OF SALES TAX LEVIED BY THE DISTRICT BY
FOUR-TENTHS OF ONE PERCENT, FROM THE CURRENT SIX-TENTHS
OF ONE PERCENT TO ONE PERCENT COMMENCING JANUARY 1, 2005
AND,
IN
CONNECTION
THEREWITH,
SHALL
REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT DEBT BE INCREASED $3.477 BILLION,
WITH A REPAYMENT COST OF $7.129 BILLION WITH ALL PROCEEDS
OF DEBT AND TAXES TO BE USED AND SPENT FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF A FIXED GUIDE WAY MASS
TRANSIT SYSTEM, THE CONSTRUCTION OF ADDITIONAL PARK-NRIDE LOTS, THE EXPANSION AND IMPROVEMENT OF EXISTING
PARK-N-RIDE LOTS, AND INCREASED BUS SERVICE, INCLUDING THE
USE OF SMALLER BUSES AND VANS AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL
VEHICLES AS APPROPRIATE, AS SPECIFIED IN THE TRANSIT
EXPANSION PLAN ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
DISTRICT ON OR BEFORE APRIL 22, 2004 AND SHALL DEBT BE
EVIDENCED BY BONDS, NOTES, OR OTHER MULTIPLE-FISCAL YEAR
OBLIGATIONS INCLUDING REFUNDING BONDS THAT MAY BE ISSUED
AS A LOWER OR HIGHER RATE OF INTEREST AND INCLUDING DEBT
THAT MAY HAVE A REDEMPTION PRIOR TO MATURITY WITH OR
WITHOUT PAYMENT OF A PREMIUM, PAYABLE FROM ALL
REVENUES GENERATED BY SAID TAX INCREASE, FEDERAL FUNDS,
INVESTMENT INCOME, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS, AND
OTHER REVENUES AS THE BOARD MAY DETERMINE, AND WITH
SUCH REVENUES RAISED BY THE SALES TAX RATE INCREASE AND
THE PROCEEDS OF DEBT OBLIGATIONS AND ANY INVESTMENT
INCOME ON SUCH REVENUES AND PROCEEDS BEING EXEMPT FROM
THE REVENUE AND SPENDING RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED IN
SECTION 20 OF ARTICLE X OF THE COLORADO CONSTITUTION UNTIL
SUCH TIME AS ALL DEBT IS REPAID WHEN THE RATE OF TAX WILL
BE DECREASED TO THAT AMOUNT NECESSARY FOR THE
CONTINUED OPERATION OF THE SYSTEM BUT NOT LESS THAN SIXTENTHS OF ONE PERCENT?
and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election and in order
to finance a portion of the costs of the capital improvements, facilities and equipment described
in FasTracks, the District previously issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project),
Series 2006A in the aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000 (the “2006A Bonds”) pursuant
to the provisions of an Indenture of Trust, dated as of October 1, 2006, as amended, (the “2006A

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

-2Packet Pg. 201

Indenture”) between the District and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee (the “Trustee”); and
WHEREAS, to refund a portion of the 2006A Bonds, the District previously
issued its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A in the
aggregate principal amount of $363,725,000 (the “2007A Bonds”) pursuant to the provisions of
an Indenture of Trust, dated as of May 1, 2007, as amended, between the District and the Trustee
(the “2007A Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election and in order
to finance a portion of the costs of the capital improvements, facilities and equipment described
in FasTracks, the District previously issued its Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
(FasTracks Project), Series 2010A in the aggregate principal amount of $79,140,000 (the
“2010A Bonds”) and its Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project) (Direct Pay
Build America Bonds), Series 2010B, in the aggregate principal amount of $300,000,000 (the
“2010B Bonds” and together with the 2010A Bonds, the “2010 Bonds”) pursuant to the
provisions of an Indenture of Trust, dated as of November 23, 2010, between the District and the
Trustee (the “2010 Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election and in order
to assist in the financing of a portion of the costs related to a portion of FasTracks referred to as
the “Eagle P3 Project,” the District has entered into the TIFIA Loan Agreement, dated
December 1, 2011 (the “TIFIA Loan Agreement”) with the United States Department of
Transportation, an agency of the United States of America, acting by and through the Federal
Highway Administrator (the “TIFIA Lender”) pursuant to which the TIFIA Lender will loan a
maximum amount of $280,000,000 to the District, which loan is evidenced by the RTD TIFIA
Bond (the “RTD TIFIA Bond”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election and in order
to finance a portion of the costs of the capital improvements, facilities and equipment described
in FasTracks, the District previously issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project),
Series 2012A in the aggregate principal amount of $474,935,000 (the “2012A Bonds”) pursuant
to the provisions of an Indenture of Trust, dated as of December 20, 2012, between the District
and the Trustee (the “2012A Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, to refund the remaining portion of the outstanding 2006A Bonds, the
District previously issued its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series
2013A in the aggregate principal amount of $204,820,000 (the “2013A Bonds”) pursuant to the
provisions of an Indenture of Trust, dated as of May 16, 2013, between the District and the
Trustee (the “2013A Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, the 2007A Bonds, 2010 Bonds, 2012A Bonds, 2013A Bonds and the
RTD TIFIA Bond remain outstanding as of the date hereof; and
WHEREAS, the 2007A Bonds, the 2010 Bonds, the 2012A Bonds, the 2013A
Bonds and the RTD TIFIA Bond are payable out of and constitute an irrevocable first lien (but
not necessarily an exclusive first lien) on the revenues received from the 0.4% Sales Tax

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

-3Packet Pg. 202

Increase and are payable out of and constitute an irrevocable lien on the 0.6% Sales Tax which is
in all respects subordinate to the pledge and lien thereon of the Senior Debt (as hereinafter
defined); and
WHEREAS, the District has heretofore pledged all of the proceeds from the
imposition of the 0.6% Sales Tax to the payment of the following outstanding bonds of the
District: the Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, the Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2010A, and the Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
2013A (collectively, the “Senior Bonds”), and any additional bonds issued pursuant to the
resolutions (collectively, the “Senior Bond Resolution”) authorizing the Senior Bonds
(collectively, the “Senior Debt”); and
WHEREAS, the 0.4% Sales Tax Increase has not been pledged to the payment of
the Senior Debt; and
WHEREAS, subject to certain conditions specified in the Senior Bond
Resolution, the District is authorized to issue subordinated indebtedness payable out of and
which has a lien on the Pledged Income (as defined in the Senior Bond Resolution) which is
subordinate in all respects to the pledge and lien thereon of the Senior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined to issue and incur additional indebtedness
in the form of its “Regional Transportation District, Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks
Project), Series 2016A” (the “2016A Bonds”) in order to (a) finance additional costs of the
FasTracks project (the “ Improvement Project”), pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004
Election, (b) refund all or a portion of the outstanding 2010A Bonds and 2012A Bonds (the
“Refunded Bonds”) if it is determined by the General Manager (the “General Manager”) or Chief
Financial Officer (the “Chief Financial Officer”) of the District that such refunding would
achieve interest rate savings and effect other economies for the District (the “Refunding Project”
and together with the Improvement Project, the “Project”), and (c) pay the costs of issuance of
the 2016A Bonds and related costs; and
WHEREAS, Section 32-9-147 of the Act provides that the District may refund
any bonds issued pursuant to the Act without an election; and
WHEREAS, Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution provides that the
District may issue refunding bonds without an election if the refunding bonds are issued at a
lower interest rate; and
WHEREAS, subject to certain conditions set forth in the 2007A Indenture, the
2010 Indenture, the 2012A Indenture, the 2013A Indenture, and the TIFIA Loan Agreement, the
District is authorized to issue Additional Parity Bonds (as defined in the 2007A Indenture, the
2010 Indenture, the 2012A Indenture, the 2013A Indenture and the TIFIA Loan Agreement)
which have a lien on all or a portion of the Pledged Revenues (as defined therein) that is on a
parity with the lien thereon of the 2007A Bonds, the 2010 Bonds, the 2012A Bonds, the 2013A
Bonds and the RTD TIFIA Bond; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined and hereby declares that with respect to
the 2016A Bonds herein authorized, the conditions set forth in the 2007A Indenture, the 2010

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

-4Packet Pg. 203

Indenture, the 2012A Indenture, the 2013A Indenture and the TIFIA Loan Agreement for the
issuance of Additional Parity Bonds have been satisfied (or will be satisfied prior to the delivery
of the 2016A Bonds) and accordingly, the 2016A Bonds will be issued with a lien on a portion of
the Pledged Revenues that is on a parity with the lien thereon of the outstanding 2007A Bonds,
the 2010 Bonds, the 2012A Bonds, the 2013A Bonds and the RTD TIFIA Bond; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the 2016A Bonds shall be issued with
a first lien (but not necessarily an exclusive first lien) on the 0.4% Sales Tax Increase that is on a
parity with the 2007A Bonds, the 2010 Bonds, the 2012A Bonds, the 2013A Bonds and the RTD
TIFIA Bond; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the 2016A Bonds shall be issued with
a lien on the Pledged Income (as defined in the Senior Bond Resolution) which is in all respects
subordinate to the pledge and lien thereon of the Senior Debt, but which is on a parity with the
pledge and lien thereon of the 2007A Bonds, the 2010 Bonds, the 2012A Bonds, the 2013A
Bonds and the RTD TIFIA Bond; and
WHEREAS, the 2007A Indenture, the 2010 Indenture, the 2012A Indenture, the
2013A Indenture and the TIFIA Loan Agreement provide that the District shall not issue
securities payable from and having a lien on all or a portion of the Pledged Revenues (defined
therein) that is superior or senior to the lien thereon of the 2007A Bonds, the 2010 Bonds, the
2012A Bonds, the 2013A Bonds or the RTD TIFIA Bond, except for securities issued to refund,
in whole or in part, outstanding Senior Debt, provided that after the issuance of such refunding
bonds, the debt service payable in each bond year on all Senior Debt outstanding after the
issuance of such refunding bonds does not exceed the debt service payable in each bond year on
all Senior Debt outstanding prior to the issuance of such refunding bonds, and except for certain
financial products agreements and credit facility agreements relating to the Senior Debt, if any;
and
WHEREAS, the District has previously entered into a Concession and Lease
Agreement (the “Concession Agreement”) with Denver Transit Partners LLC (“Denver Transit
Partners”), pursuant to which the District has agreed to make monthly service payments to
Denver Transit Partners upon the commencement of revenue service of the Eagle P3 Project, and
pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election, the District has pledged the RTD
Pledged Revenues (as defined in the Concession Agreement) to make a portion of such service
payments (the “TABOR Portion”) in the amount of $589,913,540 on a subordinate basis to the
Senior Debt, the 2007A Bonds, the 2010 Bonds, the 2012A Bonds, the 2013A Bonds, the RTD
TIFIA Bond, and the 2016A Bonds; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election, in order to
assist in the financing of major transit elements that are part of the FasTracks project, the District
previously entered into the DUSPA/RTD Funding Agreement, dated February 1, 2010, with
Denver Union Station Project Authority (the “DUSPA Agreement”) pursuant to which the
District issued its Subordinate Sales Tax Revenue Bond, Series 2010, in the aggregate principal
amount of $167,954,114 (the “Subordinate DUSPA Bond”) and pledged the RTD Pledged
Revenues for the repayment of the Subordinate DUSPA Bond on a subordinate basis to the

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

-5Packet Pg. 204

Senior Debt, the 2007A Bonds, the 2010 Bonds, the 2012A Bonds, the 2013A Bonds, the RTD
TIFIA Bonds, the 2016A Bonds and the TABOR Portion; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined and hereby declares that with respect to
the 2016A Bonds herein authorized, the conditions set forth in the Concession Agreement and in
the DUSPA Agreement for the issuance of the 2016A Bonds with a lien on the Pledged
Revenues which is senior and superior to the pledge and lien thereon of the TABOR Portion and
the Subordinate DUSPA Bond have been satisfied (or will be satisfied prior to the delivery of the
2016A Bonds) and accordingly, the Board has determined that the 2016A Bonds shall be issued
with a lien on the Pledged Revenues which is senior and superior to the pledge and lien thereon
of the TABOR Portion and the Subordinate DUSPA Bond; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the 2016A Bonds shall be issued
pursuant to an Indenture of Trust, dated as of the date of execution and delivery of the 2016A
Bonds (the “Indenture”) between the District and the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, there have been filed with the Secretary of the Board (the
“Secretary”) forms of the following documents: (i) the Indenture, (ii) the Continuing Disclosure
Agreement (the “Continuing Disclosure Agreement”) between the District and DAC Bond, as
Dissemination Agent; (iii) the Escrow Agreement (“Escrow Agreement”) between the District
and the Trustee, as escrow agent; (iv) the Bond Purchase Agreement (the “Bond Purchase
Agreement”) between the District and the underwriters for the 2016A Bonds (the
“Underwriters”) as determined by the General Manager of the District (the “General Manager”)
or Chief Financial Officer of the District (the “Chief Financial Officer”); and (v) a Preliminary
Official Statement relating to the 2016A Bonds (the “Preliminary Official Statement”); and
WHEREAS, Section 11-57-204 of the Supplemental Public Securities Act,
constituting Title 11, Article 57, Part 2, Colorado Revised Statutes (the “Supplemental Act”),
provides that a public entity, including the District, may elect in an act of issuance to apply all or
any of the provisions of the Supplemental Act; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, happen and
be performed precedent to and in connection with the authorization of the 2016A Bonds exist,
have happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and manner as required
by law, it is appropriate for the Board to adopt this Resolution at this time.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
BROOMFIELD, THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER AND THE COUNTIES OF
ADAMS, ARAPAHOE, BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND WELD, IN THE STATE
OF COLORADO, AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
Ratification and Approval of Prior Actions. All actions heretofore
taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this Resolution) by the Board, the officers of the
District and otherwise by the District directed toward (i) the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement and implementation of the Improvement Project, (ii) the Refunding
Project, and (iii) the sale, issuance and delivery of the 2016A Bonds for those purposes,

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

-6Packet Pg. 205

including the use by the Underwriters of the Preliminary Official Statement prepared in
connection with the 2016A Bonds, are ratified, approved, and confirmed. The designation of the
Preliminary Official Statement by the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer as “final”
for purposes of Rule 15c2-12 (the “Rule”) of the Securities and Exchange Commission, except
for omissions permitted by the Rule, is hereby authorized, approved and confirmed.
Section 2.
Finding of Best Interests. The Board hereby finds and determines,
pursuant to the Constitution, the laws of the State of Colorado and the Act, that the financing of
the Project in accordance with the parameters set forth in this Resolution and pursuant to the
terms and provisions set forth in the Sale Certificate (hereafter defined) and the Indenture, is
necessary, convenient and in furtherance of the District’s purposes and is in the best interests of
the inhabitants of the District and the Board hereby authorizes and approves the same.
Section 3.
Authorization of 2016A Bonds. To provide funds to finance the
cost of the Project and finance the costs of issuance of the 2016A Bonds, there is hereby
authorized and created an issue of revenue bonds of the District designated as its “Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2016A.” The 2016A Bonds shall be dated, shall bear
interest, shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity and shall mature as provided in the
Indenture, and as set forth in the Sale Certificate.
Section 4.
Supplemental Act; Parameters. The Board hereby elects to apply
all of the Supplemental Act to the 2016A Bonds and in connection therewith delegates to each of
the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer the independent authority to make any
determination delegable pursuant to Section 11-57-205(1)(a-i), Colorado Revised Statutes, to
accept and sign the Bond Purchase Agreement, to make determinations in relation to the 2016A
Bonds, and to execute a sale certificate (the “Sale Certificate”) setting forth such determinations,
without any requirement that the Board approve such determinations, including without
limitation, the 2010A Bonds and 2012A Bonds to be refunded, if any, subject to the following
parameters and restrictions:
(a)
the final maturity of the new money portion of the 2016A Bonds shall be
no later than December 1, 2046, and the final maturity of the refunding portion of
the 2016A Bonds shall be no later than the final maturity date of the Refunded
Bonds;
(b)
the aggregate principal amount of the new money portion of the 2016A
Bonds shall not exceed $200,000,000.00 and the aggregate principal amount of
the refunding portion of the 2016A Bonds shall not exceed the aggregate principal
amount of the Refunded Bonds;
(c)
the amount of capitalized interest on the new money portion of the 2016A
Bonds, if any, shall not exceed three years;
(d)
the net effective interest rate of the new money portion of the 2016A
Bonds shall not exceed 7.00%, and the net effective interest rate of the refunding
portion of the 2016A Bonds shall be less than the net effective interest rate of the
Refunded Bonds;

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

-7Packet Pg. 206

(e)
the combined maximum annual repayment cost of the 2016A Bonds and
all other outstanding debt issued pursuant to the 2004 Election shall not exceed
the maximum annual repayment cost authorized in the notice of election sent to
the voters in connection with the 2004 Election;
(f)
the combined debt service requirements of the 2016A Bonds and all other
outstanding debt issued pursuant to the 2004 Election, when combined with the
debt service requirements previously paid for all other debt issued pursuant to the
2004 Election, shall not exceed the maximum total repayment cost authorized at
the 2004 Election;
(g)
the net purchase price of the 2016A Bonds shall not be less than 98% of
the original principal amount of the 2016A Bonds; and
(h)
the present value savings of the Refunding Project shall not be less than
3.00%.
Pursuant to Section 11-57-205 of the Supplemental Act, the Board hereby
delegates to each of the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer the authority to
determine the Underwriters for the 2016A Bonds and to sign a contract for the purchase of the
2016A Bonds or to accept a binding bid for the 2016A Bonds and to execute any agreement or
agreements in connection therewith, including the execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement.
The delegation set forth in this Section 4 shall be effective for one year following
the date hereof.
Section 5.
Approval of Documents.
The Indenture, the Continuing
Disclosure Agreement, the Bond Purchase Agreement and the Escrow Agreement in
substantially the forms thereof presented to the Board and filed with the District, are in all
respects approved, authorized and confirmed, but such documents may be completed, corrected
or revised as deemed necessary by the parties thereto in order to carry out the purposes of this
Resolution and as the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer shall approve, the
execution thereof being deemed conclusive approval of any such changes by the District. The
Chair of the Board (the “Chair”) is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the
Indenture, the Continuing Disclosure Agreement and the Escrow Agreement for and on behalf of
the District, and in the event that the Chair is not available to execute such documents, the First
Vice Chair (Chair Pro Tem)(the “First Vice Chair”) is hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver such documents for and on behalf of the District. The Bond Purchase Agreement
and the Sale Certificate shall be executed by either the General Manager or the Chief Financial
Officer as authorized pursuant to Section 4 hereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that it is determined in the Sale
Certificate that the net proceeds of the 2016A Bonds shall finance only the Improvement Project,
and not the Refunding Project, then the Escrow Agreement shall not be executed and delivered in
connection with the issuance of the 2016A Bonds and all references herein to the Escrow
Agreement shall be of no force and effect.

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

-8Packet Pg. 207

Section 6.
Approval of Official Statement. The Official Statement, in
substantially the form of the Preliminary Official Statement, is in all respects approved,
authorized and confirmed, but with such amendments, additions and deletions as are in
accordance with the facts and not inconsistent herewith, and the Chair is hereby authorized and
directed to affix his signature to the Official Statement for and on behalf of the District, and in
the event that the Chair is not available to execute the Official Statement, the First Vice Chair is
hereby authorized and directed to execute the Official Statement for and on behalf of the District.
The distribution by the Underwriters of the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official
Statement for the 2016A Bonds to interested persons in connection with the sale of the 2016A
Bonds is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed. The execution of a final Official Statement
by the Chair, or the First Vice Chair, shall be conclusively deemed to evidence the approval of
the form and contents thereof by the District.
Section 7.
Approval of Form of 2016A Bonds. The form, terms and
provisions of the 2016A Bonds, in the form contained in the Indenture and upon the terms to be
set forth in the Sale Certificate, are hereby approved, with such changes therein as are approved
by the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer; and the manual or facsimile signature of
the Chair is hereby authorized and directed to be placed on the 2016A Bonds, the seal of the
District, or a facsimile thereof, is hereby authorized and directed to be affixed to the 2016A
Bonds, and the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to attest the 2016A Bonds, in
accordance with the Indenture. In the event that the Chair is not available, the manual or
facsimile signature of the First Vice Chair is hereby authorized and directed to be placed on the
2016A Bonds.
Section 8.
Authorization to Execute Collateral Documents. The Secretary or
Assistant Secretary authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed
to attest all signatures and acts of any official of the District in connection with the matters
authorized by this Resolution and to place the seal of the District on any document authorized
and approved by this Resolution. The Chair, the Secretary, the General Manager, the Chief
Financial Officer and other officers and employees of the District are hereby authorized and
directed to execute and deliver for and on behalf of the District any and all additional certificates,
documents and other papers, and to perform all other acts that they may deem necessary or
appropriate in order to implement and carry out the transactions and other matters authorized by
this Resolution. The approval hereby given to the various documents referred to above includes
an approval of such additional details therein as may be necessary and appropriate for their
completion, deletions therefrom and additions thereto as may be approved by the General
Manager or the Chief Financial Officer prior to the execution of the documents. The execution
of any instrument by the appropriate officers and employees of the District herein authorized
shall be conclusive evidence of the approval by the District of such instrument in accordance
with the terms hereof.
Section 9.
No Recourse against Officers and Agents. Pursuant to Section 1157-209 of the Supplemental Act, if a member of the Board, or any officer or agent of the District
acts in good faith, no civil recourse shall be available against such member, officer, or agent for
payment of the principal, interest or prior redemption premiums on the 2016A Bonds. Such
recourse shall not be available either directly or indirectly through the Board or the District, or
otherwise, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute, rule of law, enforcement of penalty, or

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

-9Packet Pg. 208

otherwise. By the acceptance of the 2016A Bonds and as a part of the consideration of their sale
or purchase, any person purchasing or selling such 2016A Bonds specifically waives any such
recourse.
Section 10.
Resolution Irrepealable. After the 2016A Bonds are issued, this
Resolution shall be and remain irrepealable, and may not be amended except in accordance with
the Indenture, until the 2016A Bonds and the interest thereon shall have been fully paid,
canceled and discharged in accordance with the Indenture.
Section 11.
Repealer. All bylaws, orders and resolutions of the District, or
parts thereof, inconsistent with this Resolution or with any of the documents hereby approved,
are hereby repealed only to the extent of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed
as reviving any bylaw, order or resolution of the District, or part thereof.
Section 12.
Severability. If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this
Resolution or the documents hereby authorized and approved shall for any reason be held to be
invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution or such documents.
Section 13.
Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
upon its passage and adoption.
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this May 31, 2016.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

Chair of the Board of Directors
(SEAL)
Attest:

Secretary

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

- 10 Packet Pg. 209

STATE OF COLORADO
CITY AND COUNTY OF BROOMFIELD,
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER, AND
COUNTIES OF ADAMS, ARAPAHOE,
BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND
WELD
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

)
)
)
)
) SS.
)
)
)
)

I, the Secretary of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Regional
Transportation District, in the City and County of Broomfield, City and County of Denver and
the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of
Colorado (the “District”), do hereby certify:
1.
The foregoing pages are a true and correct copy of a resolution (the
“Resolution”) passed and adopted by the Board at a meeting thereof held on May 31, 2016.
2.
The Resolution was duly moved and seconded and the Resolution was
adopted at the meeting of May 31, 2016, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board as
follows:
Name
Tom Tobiassen, Chair
Bill James
Barbara Deadwyler
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta
Jeff Walker
Claudia Folska
Gary Lasater
Kent Bagley
Judy Lubow
Larry Hoy, First Vice Chair
Paul Daniel Solano, Secretary
Lorraine Anderson
Natalie Menten
Tina Francone
Charles L. Sisk

Yes

No

Abstain

Absent

3.
The members of the Board were present at such meeting constituting a
quorum and voted on the passage of the Resolution as set forth above.
4.
The Resolution was approved and authenticated by the signature of the
Chair of the Board, sealed with the District seal, attested by the Secretary and recorded in the
minutes of the Board.

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

- 11 Packet Pg. 210

5.
There are no bylaws, rules or regulations of the Board which might
prohibit the adoption of the Resolution.
6.
Notice of the meeting of May 31, 2016 in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A was posted at 1600 Blake Street within the District, at least twenty-four hours prior to
the meeting in accordance with law.
WITNESS my hand and the seal of the District this 31st day of May, 2016.

Secretary
(SEAL)

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

- 12 Packet Pg. 211

EXHIBIT A

(Attach copy of notice given prior to the May 31, 2016 meeting)

Attachment: 1.C 2016A FT Bonds Resolution (2794 : Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue

2.12.I.a

Packet Pg. 212

2.12.J

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

May 18, 2016

Subject:

Resolution No. ___, Resolution expressing the
intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain
expenses relating to the financing of buses

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 18, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), expressing the intent of the Board to
be reimbursed from a future financing for certain expenses relating to the acquisition of buses.
BACKGROUND:
The SBP adopted by the board in 2015 anticipates the acquisition and financing of buses, including
MCI buses, 40 foot transit buses, 60 foot articulated buses, 30 foot transit buses and smaller cut
away vehicles used for Call n Ride and ADA services.
DISCUSSION:
Some of the vehicles identified in the SBP will begin arriving in May 2016 and RTD will begin paying
for the vehicles shortly after delivery and acceptance. In order for these bus acquisition expenses to
be eligible for reimbursement from a future financing, a reimbursement resolution such as the one
being recommended must be adopted by the Board.
In the coming months, the Chief Financial Officer will take preliminary actions to arrange for the
financing, including assembling financial information related to the District and drafting preliminary
documents and a Resolution for the financing. Drafts of these documents and the Resolution for the
financing will be brought to the Board for consideration at a future time.
The Board is being requested, through this Resolution, to express the intent of the Board to be
reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the acquisition of busses through a future financing.
RTD is receiving the advice of Butler Snow LLP as Bond Counsel in regard to this reimbursement
resolution.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
Principal and interest costs related to this future financing are included in the budget and the SBP
adopted by the Board in 2015.
ALTERNATIVES:
1.
Authorize the attached Resolution No. __, Series of 2016, expressing the intent of the
Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the financing of buses. This is the
recommended action.
2.

Do not authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No. __, Series
of 2016, expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to

Packet Pg. 213

2.12.J

the financing of buses. This is not the recommended action as it would adversely affect
RTD’s ability to proceed with bus acquisition projects.
ATTACHMENTS:


1.B 2016 COP Reimb Resolution (DOCX)

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 214

RESOLUTION NO. _____
A RESOLUTION EXPRESSING THE INTENT OF THE
BOARD TO BE REIMBURSED FOR CERTAIN EXPENSES
RELATING TO THE FINANCING OF BUSES.
WHEREAS, it is the current intent of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the
Regional Transportation District (the “District”) to acquire approximately eighty-eight (88) buses
and related equipment (the “Project”) to be used in the mass transportation system of the District;
and
WHEREAS, the Board currently believes that it is in the best interest of the
District to finance the Project through the execution and delivery of one or more lease purchase
agreements; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it may be necessary to make capital
expenditures to acquire the Project prior to the time that the District arranges for the specific
financing of such Project; and
WHEREAS, it is the Board’s reasonable expectation that when such financing
occurs, the capital expenditures will be reimbursed with the proceeds of the financing; and
WHEREAS, in order to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, it is the Board’s desire that this resolution shall constitute the “official
intent” of the Board to reimburse such capital expenditures within the meaning of Treasury
Regulation §1.150-2.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT:
Section 1.
All action (not inconsistent with the provisions of this resolution)
heretofore taken by the Board and the officers, employees and agents of the District directed
toward the acquisition and financing of the Project is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 2.
The District intends to finance approximately $50,000,000 to pay
the costs of the Project, including the reimbursement of certain costs incurred by the District
prior to the receipt of any proceeds of a financing, upon terms acceptable to the District, as
authorized in a resolution to be hereafter adopted and to take all further action which is necessary
or desirable in connection therewith.
Section 3.
The officers, employees and agents of the District shall take all
action necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby and shall take all action necessary or desirable to acquire and
finance the Project and to otherwise carry out the transactions contemplated by the resolution.

Attachment: 1.B 2016 COP Reimb Resolution (2793 : Resolution No. ___, Resolution expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for

2.12.J.a

1
Packet Pg. 215

Section 4.
The officers and employees of the District are hereby authorized
and directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provision of this
resolution.
Section 5.
The District shall not use reimbursed moneys for purposes
prohibited by Treasury Regulation §1.150-2(h).
Section 6.
This resolution is intended to be a declaration of “official intent” to
reimburse expenditures within the meaning of Treasury Regulation §1.150-2
Section 7.
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this resolution
shall for any reason be held invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this
resolution.
Section 8.
All acts, orders and resolutions of the Board, and parts thereof,
inconsistent with this resolution be, and the same hereby are, repealed to the extent only of such
inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any act, order or resolution, or part
thereof, heretofore repealed.
Section 9.

The resolution shall in full force and effect upon its passage and

approval.
PASSED THIS ________ ___, 2016, BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By: ____________________________
Chair
(SEAL)
ATTEST:

By: ___________________________
Secretary

Attachment: 1.B 2016 COP Reimb Resolution (2793 : Resolution No. ___, Resolution expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for

2.12.J.a

2
Packet Pg. 216

2.12.K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 19, 2016

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 18, 2016

Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

Subject:

August 2016 Service Change Final

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the August 2016 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting
in an annualized cost of approximately $549,600 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted
by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted. The proposals herein include a mix of service
enhancements, routine schedule adjustments and several service reductions. Also included in this report
is a grant funded proposal anticipated to be implemented in the August service change. Funded through
a CMAQ grant, enhancements to the frequency of the Free Metro Ride operating between DUS and Civic
Center Station are proposed. We will monitor customer response to the implementation of these service
changes and propose adjustments and service alternatives as appropriate in future service change
recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Two hearings were held in Denver at the Blake Administration building and one meeting was held in
Longmont and one meeting in Commerce City. Comments and further details from these meetings and
the service change website are summarized in Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following represent substantive changes proposed to

Packet Pg. 217

2.12.K

the service changes initially communicated to the Board of Directors for implementation as part of the
August 2016 service change:
Route 62: this proposal has been postponed until the completion of roadway work around the
Commerce City municipal center
Free Metro Ride: additional trips expanding the higher peak frequency period are proposed to further
enhance availability of service from Denver Union Station. The subsequent increase in cost is included in
the current proposal, which is fundable through its CMAQ grant.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 62 – Commerce City/Stapleton: proposal postponed.
Route 83L – Parker/Leetsdale: add a 5:04am weekday and 5:39am weekend trips from Civic Center
Station to Nine Mile.
Route 121 – Peoria Street: shift 12:15am from 40th & Airport Station to 12:45am.
Flatiron Flyer – US 36 BRT: add one PM eastbound Route FF6 trip
Free MetroRide: increase peak period frequency to operate every 4.5 minutes.

Routes proposed for service reductions:
BroncosRide and CU/CSU Game: discontinue BroncosRide and CU/CSU special service from the
Montbello park-nRide.

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: cutback 2:57pm eastbound trip from Federal Center Station, to instead
originate at Lakewood Commons at 3:15pm.
Route 31 – Federal Crosstown: extend and convert a Route 30 trip to 72nd Avenue as a Route 31 trip
and shift the afternoon northbound school tripper.
Route 72/72W – 72nd Avenue Crosstown: convert 72W trips into 72 trips.
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont: convert selected peak trips to become express trips.
Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver: convert one Route CV trip leaving Civic Center
Station into a Route CS trip.

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments
Route 1 – 1st Avenue: running time analysis to improve on-time performance
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: adjust evening trip times
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue: adjust evening trip times
Route 16 – West Colfax: minor schedule adjustments
Route 28 – 28th Avenue: minor schedule adjustments
Route 51 – Sheridan Boulevard: minor schedule adjustments
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road: running time and trip time adjustments
Route 76 – Wadsworth Boulevard: minor schedule adjustments
Flatiron Flyer – US 36 BRT: routine schedule adjustments

Seasonal Service Changes
School Service
Resume seasonal school service on the following routes:
Routes 1, 9, 11, 24, 30, 30Ltd, 31, 51, 52, 65, 73, 100, 206/206F and 208/208F
(Route 43 school tripper service replaced by increased frequency on the Route 43)
Routes BOUND, DASH, JUMP, SKIP and STAMPEDE: Change to fall/winter schedules.

Packet Pg. 218

2.12.K

Route N – Nederland/Boulder: reinstate routing to Eldora Ski Resort.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal is estimated to be $1,085,400 annualized, with
$1,039,200 being funded through CMAQ grants, resulting in a net base system impact of $46,200.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed August 2016 service changes does
not reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by minority or low-income populations.
A Look Ahead – January 2017
The following items are service concepts currently under consideration or are planned events that impact
operations in the next service change period:
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Boulevard
Due to the likely increase in ridership caused by extending the service to the Auraria Campus the peak
periods will have to be monitored for need of additional capacity.
E Line
Responding to recent growth on the E Line weekday midday period (9:30 AM-2:30 PM) warrants an
increase in service to provide 15-minute service.
ATTACHMENTS:


Atch A - August 2016 Service Change



Attch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments August Service Change

(DOCX)
(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 219

2.12.K.a

Attachment A - August 2016 Service Change

Route 3 – Alameda Avenue
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue
Adjust evening trip times for reliable connections with Light Rail. No anticipated cost
impacts.
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue
It is proposed to cutback 2:57pm eastbound trip from Federal Center Station, to instead
originate at Lakewood Commons at 3:15pm. This change would affect 5 passengers, who
have trips 15 minutes earlier or later. The current 3:38pm westbound trip from
Lincoln/Alameda, will instead originate at Centrepoint & Sable Transfer Center at 2:49pm.
This proposal provides westbound 30 minute frequency during school dismissal times and
early PM peak. Anticipated cost impacts are estimated to be $2,070 annualized.
Route 16 – West Colfax
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve connections with late night W Line
trains. No anticipated cost impacts.
Route 28 – 28th Avenue
Minor schedule adjustments. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 31 – Federal Crosstown
It is proposed to extend the Route 30 trip beginning at Federal/Evans at 3:13pm to 72nd
Avenue (from Colfax Avenue) as a Route 31 trip. It is also proposed to shift the afternoon
northbound school tripper from Evans approximately 5 minutes later to better balance
passenger levels. Anticipated cost impacts are estimated to be $10,300 annualized.
Route 51 – Sheridan Boulevard
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve connections with late night W Line
trains. No anticipated cost impacts.
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road
Schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. No anticipated cost
impacts.
Route 72/72W – 72nd Avenue Crosstown
It is proposed that two weekday Route 72W trips in each direction be retained, for school
start and end times at Westminster High School. All other school trips would be converted
to Route 72 trips only. No anticipated cost impacts.

Attachment: Atch A - August 2016 Service Change (2789 : August 2016 Service Change Final)

Route 1 – 1st Avenue
Running time analysis is proposed weekday, Saturday, and Sunday to improve on-time
performance and schedule reliability. No anticipated cost impacts.

Route 76 – Wadsworth Boulevard
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve connections with late night W Line
trains. No cost impacts anticipated.

Packet Pg. 220

2.12.K.a

Attachment A - August 2016 Service Change

Route 121 – Peoria Street
It is proposed to shift the Sunday night southbound trip at 12:15am from 40th & Airport
Station to 12:45am. This change matches weekday and Saturday night service. No cost
impacts are anticipated.
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont
This proposal converts 4 morning peak and last southbound trip as well as 3 evening peak
and last northbound trips to become express trips between 8th/Coffman and Downtown
Boulder Station. Routing adjustment within Longmont via Coffman, 2nd Ave, S Pratt
Parkway between 2nd Ave and Ken Pratt Blvd to regular routing; then within Boulder via
Foothills, Pearl Pkwy to Pearl and regular routing. No anticipated cost impacts.
Route BOUND, DASH, JUMP, SKIP and STAMPEDE
Seasonal schedule adjustment to Autumn schedule
Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
It is proposed to convert the Route CV trip leaving Civic Center Station at 5:07pm to a
Route CS trip, serving Federal Center Station. Trips leaving Civic Center Station will also
be adjusted by up to 10 minutes to better space westbound trips. The anticipated cost
impact of this proposal is estimated to be $11,700 annualized.
Flatiron Flyer – US 36 BRT
It is proposed to add one PM eastbound route FF6 trip, between Boulder Junction at Depot
Square Station and Union Station (DUS) with an approximate leave time of 4:00pm from
Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station, in order to provide service levels equal to
former route S, prior to the implementation of Flatiron Flyer, to East Boulder/ CU East
Campus and East Flatiron Business Park. Additionally, routine schedule adjustments with
no anticipated cost impacts. The anticipated cost of this proposal is estimated to be
$17,500 annualized.
Free MetroRide
It is proposed to increase peak period frequency to operate every 4.5 minutes.
Cost impacts are estimated to be $490,200 annualized, which are grant funded through
CMAQ.

Attachment: Atch A - August 2016 Service Change (2789 : August 2016 Service Change Final)

Route 83L – Parker/Leetsdale
This proposal adds a 5:04am eastbound trip from Civic Center Station to Nine Mile, to
serve growing reverse commute market and support upcoming R-line light rail service. It is
also proposed to add a 5:39am eastbound trip from Civic Center to Nine Mile on
Saturdays/Sunday/holidays. Anticipated cost impacts are estimated to be $18,000
annualized.

School Service
Reinstate school service on Routes 1W, 11, 24, 30Ltd, 31, 50, 65, 73, 206 and 208.

Packet Pg. 221

2.12.K.a

Attachment A - August 2016 Service Change
Stop Consolidation/ Elimin490ation of Exception Stops on Route BOLT, J and L within
Longmont
Consolidate stops within Longmont along Main Street and Ken Pratt Blvd for better
consistency and improved travel time/on-time performance.

BroncosRide and CU/CSU Game
With the closing of the Montbello Park-n-Ride, BroncosRide and CU/CSU service will no
longer operate from the Park-n-Ride. Service to Sports Authority Field will be available by
taking the new University of Colorado A-Line service to Denver Union Station and
transferring to a C, E or W-Line train. An average Broncos game carries approximately 56
passengers and the CU/CSU game has been averaging 4 passengers over the past two
years. Savings: $13,200 annual costs

Attachment: Atch A - August 2016 Service Change (2789 : August 2016 Service Change Final)

Special Service

Packet Pg. 222

2.12.K.b

August 2016 Service Change
Public Meeting Comments

Thursday, May 19th, 2016
Longmont Senior Center
5:30 PM
Facilitator: Nataly Erving
The meeting was started at 5:35pm with RTD Staff in attendance: Director Judy Lubow,
David Menter. City of Longmont Staff in attendance: Phil Greenwald; City of Longmont
TAB representatives: Buzz Feldman, Bob Lee
4 members of the public attended.
Lynn Philippsen requested that the stop at Table Mesa and Tantra Drive be considered as a
stop on the US36 BRT Flatiron Flyer routes. She stated that the walk to the closest BRT
stop was too far. Staff pointed out that local underlying service on routes DASH and 206
is available and that at this time demand at this stop location does not warrant for it to be
a BRT stop. Staff will continue to monitor demand in this regard.
Bob Lee liked the proposed changes for the BOLT, J and L stops, as well as the Bolt
Express trips. He stated that he would like to see the fare for route BOLT to be local all the
way between Longmont and Boulder and urged RTD staff to reconsider the recent fare
zone change. He also requested that RTD staff look into airport service from Longmont to
Denver, as well as a meeting to discuss various options in this regard with city staff and
members of the TAB. RTD staff will coordinate with City of Longmont staff to set up such
a meeting.
Buzz Feldman also stated that he agreed with the proposed changes and asked when they
would go into effect. He suggested that instead of calling the faster trips on route BOLT
‘express’ to reference them as ‘Limited’ in order to not be too confusing or perhaps
misleading, since the trips will serve all of the agreed upon stops for regular route BOLT
within Longmont and then only travel at a faster pace once outside of the city. Staff
agreed that this would be a good idea and that they would consider doing so.
Peter Lloyd was concerned about the connections from route BOLT to route 206 and
having to walk from 28th Street to Boulder Junction in order to now make his connection.
Upon review of the proposed BOLT Express trips he however noted that they would most
likely provide a good alternative and better connection for him to get from Longmont to
the East Flatiron Business Park. He also encouraged staff to make sure that the
connections to these express trips from route 324 at 8th & Coffman Park-n-Ride be
considered. In addition, he requested to have route FLEX consider making better
connections at Boulder Junction to route 206.
Rolf Kaumann stated that he is a route L (LNX/LSX) passenger and appreciates the service,
as well as that RTD staff is willing to listen to customer concerns and input. He asked why
routes LNX and LSX have to ‘loop’ via 21st and Terry Street before continuing their trips

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments August Service Change (2789 : August 2016 Service Change Final)

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments – August Service Changes

Packet Pg. 223

2.12.K.b

and requested for staff to look into the elimination of this routing since it could save up to
5 minutes of travel time.
Andrea Papa requested that there be a later LNX or LSX trip in the AM peak that would
better match the 9am work shift start time in Downtown Denver.
Phil Greenwald pointed out that the city is in the process of developing a community
development plan and that within that plan there are suggestions for future bus routes,
including a potential routing for a true BOLT Express, which would avoid multiple railroad
crossings within Longmont.
The meeting closed at 6:30pm.

Friday, May 20th, 2016
Blake Administrative Downtown Denver
12:00 noon
This meeting was started at 12:00 Pm with 7 public participants. RTD Staff in attendance:
Jessie Carter, Diane Marquiss, Doug Monroe, Cooper Langdon, Jeff Dunning. The
following comments were made during the meeting:
Margarita T. Barcelo’ (Marsala) – She was concerned about the service to Auraria Campus
as she heard that the current service, Routes 6 and 43, were temporary and soon to be
discontinued. Jessie informed her that the service was there to stay as we had just made
the changes to have the routes serve the Auraria Campus.
Mary Beth Patterson – Was asking about the CV changes to the 5:07pm express trip up to
Pine Junction. She does not want that trip changed to a CS that services the Federal
Center. Doug Monroe explained that the wording on the public notice was a little
confusing and informed her that the CX will not be changed to the CS. He also told her
that some of the other CV trips may be shifted slightly to provide better overall service.
Glenn Ressmeyer – Glenn started out by saying how much he likes the new A-line service.
However, he said he does not like the changes we have made with the bus service on the
east side of town associated with the A-line opening. He specifically mentioned the Rte
153 and 121. He said the changes have negatively impacted his commute to the Denver
Tech Center and he would like to see the service changed.
Jackson Deak – He represents a disabled group of passengers and would like to have the
Route 15L stop at Colfax and High St. He would also like to see more frequent service on
the Route 3. Jeff Dunning explained that the Route 3 may end up with more frequent
service and that it was unlikely the 15L would stop at High Street because adding stops to
the 15L would defeat the purpose of the route being a Limited stop service.
Geoffrey Bateman – He was with Jackson Deak and wanted to know what factors are
considered when planning a route and deciding which stops will be served. He was asking
because of their desire to have Colfax/High added to the stops on the 15L. Jeff Dunning
explained the factors we consider against what type of route we are operating, in this
instance a “Limited”.
Gina Richards – She commented on, what she perceived, was reduced service to the
Montbello neighborhood since the A-Line opened. Jessie Carter explained the service
changes to her and how they provide an overall service improvement to the area. She also

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments August Service Change (2789 : August 2016 Service Change Final)

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments – August Service Changes

Packet Pg. 224

2.12.K.b

wanted to know if RTD had a community outreach group that she could contact regarding
current and future service changes.
Jessie told her she could reach out to the
Service/Planning department directly or we could get her the correct contact for the
community outreach group. She said she would check our website herself and didn’t
want to provide us with her contact information.
Kevin – Kevin is an ADA passenger and wanted to know about the new Commuter Rail
service and how it would impact his commute from Lafayette. Doug Monroe went over
some of our service that would benefit him the most. He left his contact information so
we could reach out to him with information.

Friday, May 20th, 2016
Blake Administrative Downtown Denver
6:00 PM
This meeting was started at 6:00 PM with 2 public participants and one RTD Staff
member. The meeting began at 6:15 PM and was concluded at 6:40 PM. The following
comments were made during the meeting:
Helen Lee – Does not understand the thoughts behind changes to the Broomfield CnR, as
related to the introduction of the Superior Call-n-Ride. Her commute pattern does not have
a fixed-route alternative, where the area covered by the new Superior Call-n-Ride has
alternative service, she opined. She would like to have the former service area restored.
Kenneth C. - Formerly used the Route 40 trips to UPS and currently uses the Route 37. He
requested that RTD recreate the later morning and afternoon trips that were available on
the Route 40 for “late shift” workers at UPS.

Tuesday, May 24, 2016

Commerce City Recreation Center
6:00 PM
Meeting was due to start at 6:00 PM. There were no attendees.
was there.

David Menter from RTD

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments August Service Change (2789 : August 2016 Service Change Final)

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments – August Service Changes

Packet Pg. 225

2.12.K.b

Electronically Received Comments
Support Opposed
Inquiry
Route
G Line
G Line

1
1

Evergreen/
Golden
Route

1

31X

1

Coffey
Malito

52

1

CV/CS

1

Golden
Service
125

Anon

76
Totals

Ceballos

1
1
2

3

4

Additional Comments

Baldassano Concerned about service in
Wheatridge - possible
Motley
Requesting bus from Applewood
Village to Wheat Ridge Station
Ward
Would like service from Evergreen
directly to Golden
Reyna

1

72X

Last Name

Kelbert
Cobald

Against 70th/Broadway PnR being
closed
Concerned with replacement
service from Ward Station NB
Against discontinuing the route numerous questions regarding
service
Opposed to proposal to convert
Route CV Westbound trip to a CS.
Would like service at 1st and
Washington. Disabled.
Looking forward to new service
Wants 76 to go back down to
Wadsworth and Chatfield

Attachment: Attch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments August Service Change (2789 : August 2016 Service Change Final)

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments – August Service Changes

Packet Pg. 226

