Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, May 13, 2008,
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:
Subject:

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
May 13, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***
Chair John Tayer, Vice-Chair Bill Christopher, Juanita Chacon, Bruce Daly,
Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, O’Neill
Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick
Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Chris Martinez

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, David Genova, Phil Washington, Bob Lewis, Brian Matthews,
Jeff Becker, John Dawson, Tony McCaulay, Bill Porter, Daria Serna, Scott
Reed, Robert Merriman, John Tarbert, Paula Perdue, Teresa Sedmak

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Roger Sherman

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:36 p.m.

I. Recommended Actions – Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager, Administration
introduced these action items.
Database Administration Operational Systems Support – Bob Lewis, Senior Manager,
Information Technology introduced this item. This is a renewal of the contract for the
second year. This contract supports support maintenance on databases.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to initiate the secondyear contract option with Dataman USA for time and materials Oracle DBA support
contract was originally awarded on July 1, 2007 through the competitive bid process.
Within the contract, Article 6.0, allows for an initial year plus three one-year options to
renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed
$160,000. The second year option is to begin on July 1, 2008 and remain in effect for
365 calendar days until June 31, 2009. The Board is being asked to approve this contract
because Legal has determined it to be a personal services contract.
Motion: Director Christopher made a motion for
full approval before the Board

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, May 13, 2008,
Page 2 of 5
at the May 20, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Ruchman seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
TripPlanner On-Call Support Services – Bob Lewis spoke about this action. This
contract is for support for the old trip planner. When the trip planner went down
earlier this year, RTD staff could not fix it and had to bring in outside help. Their
contract expires this month and staff would like to renew it for the rest of the year to
ensure maintenance for the old system. Staff also wants to see if the Google Trip
Planner can handle the load of the public requests.
Director Ruchman asked about the software that crashed. Bob Lewis responded that it
was built for a time when the website had 25,000 page hits a month. Today the web
site has over 4,000,000 page hits per month. The software that supports it, Forte, is
no longer supported by Sun Microsystems. The person on this contract is one of the
premier Forte people in the metro area.
The Google software is still being tested. Three out of five people like it. There are
still some issues with it.
Director Tayer asked about some of the problems with the Google software.
Phil Washington asked Scott Reed to speak about Google from the TIC experience.
The initial page is confusing if you are not familiar with Google. Problems with one
mile walk distance and Google will tell you it is o.k. to walk across places that it is not
safe to walk across. Need more input from customers actually using Google to plan
trips. Chair Tayer stated he was satisfied that this was merely a bridge investment
toward a long term plan of relying on an enhanced Google system.
Director Quinlan asked about what kind of situations trigger action on the Trip Planner.
Bob Lewis said that the Trip Planner currently handles about 170,000 trips a month.
Bob Lewis expects Google to solve the problems with the Trip Planner by next fall.
Director Kinton spoke about watching the evolution of the Trip Planner. It has come a
long way and supported holding on to the old Trip Planner until the issues with the
Google Trip Planner are worked out. Director Kinton praised staff for their hard work
on the Trip Planner.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a contract in
the amount of $100,000 for Personal Services of TripPlanner One-Call Support Services.
The contract is to be awarded to Object Designs, LLC as a sole source vendor. The sole

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, May 13, 2008,
Page 3 of 5
source vendor was selected a competitive bid and award of general Forte support services
contract that proved insufficient in support of the TripPlanner application. The TripPlanner
application was off-line for 10 days in January 2008 and required an emergency contract
engagement with Object Designs, LLC. This has been determined to be a personal service
contract by RTD Legal.
The contract allows for an initial year plus one additional one-year option to renew based
on positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed $100,000. The
second year option is to begin on January 1, 2009 and remain in effect for one year until
December 31, 2009.
Motion: Director Pulliam made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the May 20, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

II.

Sales and Use Tax Forecast RFP Follow up – John Dawson spoke to this item. Back in
February based on Board feedback, staff developed a RFP for sales tax forecasting specific
to RTD. Six firms were solicited, but there were no responses.
Three firms were not
interested; the other three firms did not have the time to do this. Mr. Dawson tried some
other sources and could not get any response. Based on this, staff could send out proposal
to these two firms that are interested but then there would be a higher cost and longer time
frame; or the Scope of Work could completely be redone but again, the time factor would be
greatly increased.
Director Elfenbein asked if Mr. Dawson had checked with the Stadium District or SCFD
to see if they have done any work on this. Director Christopher said that the District can
not afford a $70-100,000 item that is not budgeted. Director Christopher said he was a
proponent of this but given the dire financial sales tax situation, he was not supportive
of pursuing a new RFP. Director Chacon agreed with Director Christopher. Director
Quinlan said it is expensive but he felt it could be money well spent.
Director Ruchman agreed with Director Elfenbein’s suggestion and echoed Director
Christopher’s concern about a non-budgeted item. He suggested looking for creative
options such as colleges to develop a model.
Director Yamrick said she was disheartened with this report.
Director Pulliam said he was concerned about the cost as well. Chair Tayer said the
Board needs a better handle on budgeting and a better type of forecasting. Chair Tayer
suggested pursuing some creative ideas within the parameters that are already budgeted

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, May 13, 2008,
Page 4 of 5
for this. He asked that staff e-mail the RFP materials to the Board so they can check
with their own contacts on opportunities for pursing this goal.
Director Elfenbein echoed Chair Tayer’s sentiment about continuing to look to see if
someone would be interested in doing this forecasting model.
Staff is to check with the Stadium District and SCFD and provide the Board with the RFP
materials so that the Board might be able to solicit the work.
III.

First Quarter 2008 Investment Report – Teresa Sedmak, Manager of Debts and Investments
gave this report. The first quarter of 2008 was a new reporting mechanism due to the
change in the Investment Policy approved by the Board at the end of 2007. The Investment
portfolio is broken into three tiers: Liquidity Tier, Enhanced cash Tier, and Short-Term Tier.
The Liquidity Tier outperformed its benchmark significantly. The Enhanced Cash Tier and
Short-Term Tier did not perform to their benchmarks. The Committee commended Ms.
Sedmak on her report.

IV.

Fixed Spread Basis SWAP
- Teresa Sedmak presented this item. The District received a
proposal from CitiBank and RBC Capital. Staff wanted the Board to be aware of this
proposal. The District encourages unsolicited proposals that can benefit the District. Staff
is not recommending that this be pursued based on the risks. Right now the District can not
pursue this SWAP on a legal basis. It would require changes in the State Legislation.
Director Elfenbein said that he was uncomfortable with the word “speculative” and
supported the staff recommendation. Director Pulliam said that this would be a very
difficult change in the legislature and supported the staff recommendation.

V.

2008 Performance Report - First Quarter – Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and
Financial Analysis, reviewed this report. During the First Quarter there were three
performance measures that were out of line at the end of 2007 that came into line during
the first quarter of 2008. Goal 1.4 – light rail/auto accidents, 3.1 – on time performance
and 6.6 - headcount for bus operators and mechanics. Challenges – vehicle accident
involvement, mostly non preventable accidents. Staff is breaking down accidents into
categories, non preventable (something hits the bus) and preventable (the bus hit
something). The financial ratios were on target and the District exceeded its goal on Eco
Pass revenue, Fare box revenue, and ridership.
Director Daly asked about Goal 1.1 – the accidents. Director Daly wanted to know what
the corrective actions would be for this goal. Phil Washington said that this is only the first
quarter and that Ron Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations has a plan but
was ill and could not attend the meeting.
Director Ruchman commented on the Operating Cost Recovery Ration and was happy to see
it up.
Director Yamrick asked about training and where we go down the path towards correction,
she wanted to see a report on this. Bruce Abel responded that this was being worked on.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, May 13, 2008,
Page 5 of 5

Director Quinlan spoke about the ridership increase. Is the District looking at any budget
shortfall because of the increase in ridership? Phil Washington responded that yes, this is
affecting the budget. There are pressures to increase service. There will have to be service
adjustments to be able to stay within budget.
Director Daly asked about the preventative maintenance issue for First Transit Longmont
and it being at only 87.1% and why it is so low. Bruce Abel said that the Longmont
Maintenance shop has undergone some personal changes and now there is a new
maintenance manager in Longmont and in the interim some slips may have occurred.
Director Tayer asked about the “Overdue Bus Interior Cleaning per month” being over the
goal and Robert Merriman explained that there were some incidents at Platte and corrective
action has been taken.
Director Tayer also spoke about the issues of increased ridership and how we can inform the
public as to the budget impact of the ridership increase in the current economic situation.
Director Elfenbein said this could be an opportunity to educate the community on what a
transit service really costs.
Director Daly spoke about miles between road calls and he was concerned about the
articulated buses and the smaller coaches. Bruce Abel responded that smaller coaches are a
greater maintenance challenge because they are not as heavy-duty in terms of service cycle.
Mr. Abel also said the smaller coaches are the ones that will be replaced with the new bus
order.
Director Quinlan spoke about the difficulty in cutting service. He proposed forming a subcommittee to bring a “take it or leave it” proposal to the Board. After some discussion, the
Committee decided to continue with the staff process for service change proposals.
VI.

March 2008 Financial Status Report – Robert Merriman gave this report. System wide
boardings are up 8% over last year, 4.8% above goal. Farebox revenue is up, ridership is up
and sales tax revenue is down.

VII. 2009 Budget Preparation Update – Phil Washington gave a brief overview of the 2009
budget preparation packet. This item will be discussed in the May 29 Board retreat.
VIII. Other Matters – Chair Kemp said that the facilitators will put out a web based questionnaire
regarding what budget items the Board would like to see.
VI.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Financial Administration Committee will
be June 10, 2008.

VII. Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting at 7:01 p.m.

