Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, January 13, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 6:55 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:55 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:56 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

6:55 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

6:48 PM
6:56 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

6:56 PM
6:51 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

6:52 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:54 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

3:40 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:55 PM
6:53 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:54 PM

Director Lasater was absent and Director Deadwyler left early.
Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Mike Barnes, Lacy Bell, Jessie Carter, Carolyn
Conover, Lee Cryer, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, Mike Gil, Doug
Gragg, Kim Heldman, George Hovey, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Brian
Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Bob Mickelson, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Dave Bata, Terry Bright, Shelley Cook, Eugene Howard, Leslie
Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Dace West, Monte Whaley

B. Recommended Actions

• City of Boulder Hop Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement
with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of
the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of
Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and
residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2015 and is for an
amount not to exceed $1,459,687.00.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 20, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mike Gil, Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, noted that Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, was out of town on a peer review so he
would be filling in. He introduced Brian Matthews, Manager of
Special Services, to review the action.
Brian Matthews explained that this is really a housekeeping
item that is brought to the Board every year. This is an
agreement that RTD has had with the City of Boulder (Boulder)
for numerous years to operate the HOP. He believes it is really
a win-win for RTD and Boulder as this service carries a
tremendous amount of people.
Director Bagley pointed out that this agreement would be for a
not to exceed amount of about $1.46 million. He asked if

staff could provide the requested not to exceed amount for the
agreement in 2014 versus the actual cost RTD paid. Brian
Matthews stated that he did not have the final December
numbers but would provide as much information as possible.
Director Folska asked what Boulder pays as part of the
agreement. She also wondered if any other entities
contributed to funding. Brian Matthews said that RTD only
contributes support to a portion of the HOP service; the total
budget for the portion that RTD supports is $2.5 million. The
City of Boulder is the only other contributor at about $1
million.
Director James inquired as to Boulder’s motivation for
supporting RTD in a greater way than other cities in the Metro
area. Brian Matthews explained that the City of Boulder
actually started this service. He said that the HOP has a very
high ridership level, and carrying passengers is RTD’s goal so it
makes sense to partner with Boulder.
Director Hoy commented that there are over 50K students at
the University of Colorado. These students all pay a bus fare
whether they use the bus or not so he thinks this is a good
service to support.
Director Folska wondered if the HOP is a free service or if
there is a fare charged. Brian Matthews stated that the HOP
charges a fare and is based on RTD’s fare structure. Mike Gil
noted that they also take and issue RTD transfers so it is a
very seamless service.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 0]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Committee Vice-Chair
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• 5311 Cost Share Agreements
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via
Mobility Services and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial
support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for

Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements
are for calendar year 2015 and for amounts not to exceed $353,990.00 for
Boulder County, $348,398.00 for Adams County and $107,948.00 for
Jefferson County.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 20, 2015
Board Meeting.
Chair Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mike Gil stated that this is another cost share agreement for
services that have been operating since 1991 and 1993.
Brian Matthews explained that the services are provided by
two non-profits, Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center. These companies provide services that
would otherwise be provided by Access-a-Ride. He believes
this is another win-win cost share because without these nonprofits RTD would have a significant increase in the request
for Access-a-Ride service.
Director Folska said that she wanted to ensure the new
Directors had a good understanding of RTD’s paratransit
service. RTD is required to provide Access-a-Ride service
within a ¾ of a mile radius of RTD’s fixed route service to all
people within the District who qualify. Director Folska pointed
out that the cost to RTD for each Access-a-Ride trip is roughly
$57 per trip and for Access-a-Cab it is $12. She noted the
significant cost savings in RTD’s subsidy per passenger
boarding through this program with subsidies of approximately
$2.01 to $4.63. She believes that when you think about
providing accessible transportation for people in rural
communities this agreement is a big win.
Director Bagley asked for information on the 2014 not to
exceed amount as compared to the actual cost prior to the
Board Meeting. He also asked for the actual subsidy per
passenger boarding, not just RTD’s contribution. He believes
that is critical information for the Board to put this
recommendation into perspective when comparing it to RTD
services, especially the Call-n-Ride that typically boards more
passengers per hour. Brian Matthews stated he would work
on providing the information.
Director Francone inquired if there were any performance
statistics available for Via Mobility and Seniors’ Resource

Center. Brian Matthews said he did have the information
available and would send it to her. Director Folska expressed
that she is interested in the information as well and asked that
it be sent to all Directors.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

• Denver Regional Council of Governments Vanpool Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the
Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support
and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2015 and shall be in
an amount not to exceed $760,000.00.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 20, 2014
Board Meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brian Matthews indicated that this is another housekeeping
item. RTD has been in a relationship with the Denver Regional
Council of Governments (DRCOG) for numerous years
supporting the Way to Go vanpool program (vanpool). He said
when this program first began there were a total of 13 vans;
now it is operating with 105 vans in the area. He explained
that this is really just a car share type program. Brian
Matthews stated that the program was very successful in
taking people off the roads. He noted that DRCOG contributes
about $360K annually in addition to providing a staff person
dedicated to managing the program and all the marketing
efforts.
Director Folska asked several questions regarding the service:
1. Do the users of the vanpool pay a fee? Brian Matthews
explained that they do pay a fee. This fee varies

depending on various factors like the length of the trip but
it is in-line with a Regional bus pass.
2. What is the dollar amount? Brian Matthews stated that the
cost is typically around $100 per month.
3. Is this a door-to-door service? Brian Matthews said that
the pick-up and drop-off structure is decided by each
vanpool.
4. Are the drivers RTD employees? Brian Matthews shared
that each van is assigned to one of the riders of the
vanpool who becomes the established driver. The drivers
are given an incentive of being able to use the van for
personal business up to a certain number of miles per
month.
5. How many vans are wheelchair accessible? Brian
Matthews said he would get back to Director Folska with
an exact number but he believed there were two.
6. What is the process for signing up for a vanpool? Brian
Matthews shared there was a DRCOG website where
people could sign up, an employee of DRCOG goes to large
employment centers to recruit vanpool participants, and
the TMOs in the Denver Metro area are offered an
incentive for each vanpool they form.
7. Is there a link from RTD’s website to the DRCOG vanpool
page? Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of
Communications, said there was.
Director Anderson commented that the North Area
Transportation Alliance has set up a very good process for
encouraging vanpooling along the I-25 corridor during
construction. She believes this is a very great program and
noted that DRCOG has been operating it for over 30 years.
Director Walker shared that he knows several people who
have participated in a vanpool over the years and really
enjoyed it. He noted they only had good things to say about
the program.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• A-Line Cost Share
Brian Matthews explained that this was an update on another housekeeping
item. He believes this is another win-win for RTD. He shared that when the
AS was discontinued between the Olde Town Arvada Park-n-Ride and
Denver International Airport, the City of Arvada and Ride Provide, headed by
Executive Director Shelley Cook, developed a business plan to implement
scheduled shuttle van service. He said that RTD has committed to support
this service through 2016 when the Gold Line is running.
Director Menten wondered if there has been an increase in ridership form the
West corridor since the AF service was discontinued with the opening of the
West Line. Shelley Cook indicated that there has been an increase in
ridership from the Golden and Lakewood areas.
Shelley Cook thanked the Board and staff at RTD for their support of this
partnership.

• Cost Shares
Brian Matthews stated that this was an update regarding the following cost
share agreements that RTD entered into for 2015:
1. Littleton Shopping Cart - $29,375. This service was originated to serve
portions of certain routes previously served by RTD in Littleton
2. Focus Points Family Resource Center - $50676. This is an agreement
with FPFRC, a local non-profit, to provide a new community based
service as an alternative to the discontinued Route 47
3. Longmont Coordination of Services – $10,600. This is to support a
grant obtained by Via Mobility to coordinate services provided by Via
Mobility and RTD in the City of Longmont.
Director Hoy wondered why RTD does not deploy a coordination of services
program in other areas we offer service. Brian Matthews explained that
there have been many challenges with this program. He stated that
currently this is not a model that can be replicated.
Director Francone inquired as to the ridership numbers of the Route 47 when
it was discontinued in 2004. Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning
and Scheduling, said that it was about 7 passenger boardings per hour,
which is very low for an urban area. Director Francone noted that the
passenger boardings per hour are now at 3. She wonders if this cost share
makes sense to continue since it has such low ridership. She thinks this is
something to consider next year.

• Proposed May 2015 Service Change
Mike Gil reminded the Board that there was no action required for the May
Service Changes at this time. Staff is briefing the Board before the proposal
is taken to the public for comment.
Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, pointed
out that there were three notable recommendations within the service
changes as follows:
1. Cancellation of the Route DD along Colorado Boulevard due to low
ridership.
2. Reduction in frequency on the West Line to a peak period frequency of
7.5 minutes as well as the addition of a third car to the busiest West
Line peak period trips.
3. Reintroduction of service along Morrison Road between Alameda Avenue
and Sheridan Boulevard in the Westwood neighborhood.
Jessie Carter commented that the remainder of the recommendations were
typical adjustments for school letting out for the summer as well as service
improvements. He said the base system financial impact contained in this
proposal is estimated to be about $637K annualized with an estimated
$2,405 savings attributable to FasTracks.
Jessie Carter shared that there are 5 public hearings. There is one
scheduled in Broomfield, one in Lakewood, one in West Denver and two at
the Blake Administration Building.
Director Menten inquired if we really need to add a third car to the West
Line. Jessie Carter explained that with the current practice of doing
turnarounds using a holster, the additional train is necessary. If service is
delayed for any reason it diminishes reliability of the turnaround and then
cascades through the entire Light Rail system. Director Menten indicated
she would contact Jessie Carter offline for further information.
Director Folska asked for clarification if the operating costs for the West Line
come from the FasTracks budget; it was her understanding that now that it
was in operations it was budgeted through base systems. Jessie Carter
stated that all FasTracks corridors will come from the FasTracks operating
budget, not base systems.

• Fare Task Force Update
Lacy Bell, Planning Project Manager, reviewed a Power Point Presentation
with the Board that is available in the January 13, 2015 Operations and
Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet. She indicated that staff had
just completed the public outreach process on the fare structure. They were
presented with a pay per boarding and a pay for time option with four types

of service (local, regional, rail and airport). She said some things they heard
from the public were:
1. Keep monthly and other pass programs
2. Expand Smart Card program
3. Desire for a low-income pass
4. Why are fares necessary if the public already pays for RTD with taxes
5. Desire for a day pass
6. Difficult to evaluate fare structures without knowing pricing
Lacy Bell explained that based on public feedback regarding the difficulty in
evaluating the fare structure without fare levels, staff has modified the
project schedule. She said that the Board decision on fare structure will be
combined with pricing levels; the Board will be asked to approve a fare
structure and levels for public hearings in March, with final approval of the
structure and levels in May.
Director Folska reminded the Board and staff that when a Request for
Proposal was issued for the fare study, one of the really important items to
consider was the cost of parking. She said that so far she has not heard
any discussion about parking in the equation, which she finds very troubling
and concerning. Lacy Bell recognized that paying for parking increases a
rider’s overall transportation costs. She said that while this has not been
included directly in the revenue model it is something staff has asked CH2M
Hill to take into account. Director Folska stated that she is not concerned
about people having to pay for parking in our parking structures; she is
concerned about the transit dependent, economically challenged people who
are subsidizing the high cost of parking for people who can afford to drive.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, said that he
understood her concern and would make sure it was conveyed to CH2M Hill.
Director Hoy asked for clarification on the timeline for Board approval. He
also wondered when the new fare would be implemented. Lacy Bell said
that the Board would be presented with another update in February showing
some price modeling. In March staff will ask the Board for approval to take
a proposed fare structure and levels out for public comment and final
approval will be requested in May. She stated that the goal for
implementation is January 2016 to coincide with the opening of the new rail
lines.
Director Walker noted that staff was considering installing a ticket printing
device in our vehicles similar to those used by TriMet. He wondered how
those devices were working. Lacy Bell stated that while staff needed to get
more specific details, overall TriMet has been very happy with the printers.
Director Walker inquired if staff had been provided with any kind of structure
from the public as to what they would like to see in an income based fare.

Lacy Bell said she had not been given a definition or detailed description of
what that would be.
Committee Chair Lubow asked if a peer analysis of other low income
programs would be part of the study. Lacy Bell stated that staff had
received a draft memo from CH2M Hill of this analysis that they were in the
process of reviewing. She said she would provide it to the Board once
staff’s review was complete.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley said that he would like to provide a brief update on the activities of
the Denver Union Station Project Authority Board (DUSPA). He shared that for
those Directors who were unaware, he is the RTD Board of Director representative
on the DUSPA Board and Director James is his alternate. He stated that the level
of activity for the DUSPA Board has been greatly reduced now that Denver Union
Station (DUS) is approximately 99.9% complete. He noted that there are some
issues related to cell phone service availability in the bus box that RTD staff is
addressing in conjunction with Verizon Wireless. Director Bagley informed the
Board that RTD is taking over many of the financial accounting and reporting
requirements related to the RIFF and TIFIA loans. He shared that it appears as that
many as 10 years could be shaved off those payments. Director Bagley noted that
there are some questions about the estimates of future development around DUS,
partly because of what is happening with the price of oil and future employment
outlooks, but it is too early to speculate.
Director James invited everyone to attend the annual Transportation Solutions Road
Ahead event. It will be held on April 2, 2015, at Infinity Park in Glendale.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 10, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 8:03 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

