Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

December 16, 2010

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on
December 16, 2010 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Pro Tem Martinez, Secretary Bagley, and
Treasurer Tayer.
Subject:

I.

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp, Director Busck

Other Board Members
Present:

Matt Cohen

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to
order at 12:05 p.m.

December Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Washington reviewed the agenda.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move
the December Board meeting agenda to
the full Board for vote on December 21,
2010.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on

Director Tayer reminded the General
Manager of a request by the Board for a
list of the people working on shelters and
Director Bagley requested the cost for
standard shelter and bench as it pertained
to item C “Contract Amendment 20102011 Street Improvements & Shelter
Installations.”

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent



Approval of the Special Events - Colfax Crossover
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to award change orders to the
construction contracts for Denver Transit Construction Group (DTCG)
and Balfour Beatty Rail, Inc. (BBRI) to construct the Colfax Crossover
in the amount of $1,700,000. Funding for this change order is
included in the 2011 Adopted Capital Budget for FasTracks in the
Systems Improvements project, and will come from the program-wide
railroad contingency.



Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General
Manager to Execute a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for the
South Market Street Station Property and Facility
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the
General Manager to execute a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA)
for the Market Street Station Property and Facility with the City and
County of Denver in the amount of $11,436,000 and transfer the
sale proceeds to the Denver Union Station Project Authority, subject
to RTD’s retention of possession of the Market Street Station
property and Facility until its bus operations are transferred the
Denver Union Station intermodal facility.



Contract Amendment 2010-2011 Street Improvements & Shelter
Installations
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
amendment to initiate the second year of a three-year option contract
for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract
with Manion Construction, Inc. for $325,792.75. Funding for this
contract amendment is provided in the 2011 Adopted Capital Budget.



Approval of 2011 Contract Amendment for 16 th Street Mall
Transitway Lanes – Granite Paver Maintenance
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to accomplish the
following Mall Paver Contract:
Execute the second year contract amendment 2011 (option year
one), first contract amendment for maintenance of the Mall
Transitway Lanes for January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011.
The budget amount for this second year contract is $1,050,000.00.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6
The contract (IFB 30DT001) allows for the District to add one more
future option year for 2012 beyond this current action.


Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement
is for calendar year 2011 and is for an amount not to exceed
$1,352,745.



Cost Sharing Agreements - FTA Section 5311 Funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into funding
agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the Senior’ Resource
Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA
Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams
County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar
year 011 and for amounts not to exceed $325,532 for Boulder
County, $133,955 for Adams County and $99,270 for Jefferson
County.



Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG
RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This
agreement is for calendar year 2011 and shall be in an amount not to
exceed $602,550.



Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of
the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2011 and shall be in an amount
not to exceed $477,405.



Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Englewood/Art Shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in
the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2011 and
is for an amount not to exceed $303,440.


Graphical Information Systems (GIS) Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to execute all documents necessary to award a second year (option
year 1) for the amount not to exceed of $115,000 for 1250 hours of
Graphical Information Systems (GIS) Consulting services.
The
contract was awarded to Idea Integration following a competitive
review of four submitted proposals and candidate interviews. Idea
Integration is a certified Environmental Systems Research Institute’s
(ESRI) Corporate Consultant. The contract is being brought to the
Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution
No. 27, Series of 1985.



Oracle Maintenance Renewal
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to execute all documents necessary to award a contract to Insight
Public Sector in the amount of $1,027,769.16 for Oracle License
Update and Software Maintenance for approximately 18 months.
Insight was selected through the competitive bid process for this
renewal.



Senior IT Oracle Database Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to execute all documents necessary to award a second and final
option year, for the amount not to exceed of $200,000, for Senior IT
Oracle Database services. The contract (28DH024) was originally
awarded January, 2009 to Sol-IT, an SBE/DBE firm, through the
competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial-year plus
two (2) one-year options to renew based on positive performance by
the vendor. The contract is being brought to the Board because it is
a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of
1985.



Recommended Action



Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the General Manager or his designee be authorized to negotiate and
execute all documents that may be necessary to extend the contract
for sale and development by and between the Regional Transportation
District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South Santa Fe through

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
June 30, 2011 with the provision that Alameda Station, LLC pursue
negotiations with Greyhound and/or its representatives in an attempt
to reach agreement for the development of the approximately 8.4
acre site.
Director Bagley inquired about the ODP referenced in the background
section of the Board report. He inquired if when the ODP was done,
did it include the possibility of having a bus facility across the street
where potential affordable housing for senior or low-income residents
would live? Would the approvals have been given if it included this
fact? The neighborhood does not have lots of egress/access options
without going pass the area where the bus facility is being
considered. Phil Washington indicated he would check on when the
ODP’s were approved and if the bus facility was included.
II.

Preparation for Legislative Conference in Washington
Director Tayer requested a plan of action for February from the
Legislative Committee where the Board can see the agenda and review
process for the Legislative trip to Washington. The concern is how to
best maximize the time and exposure to the Congressional team.
General Manager Washington indicated the staff is reviewing this now
and will be prepared for discussions with the Board in early February.

III.

Status Update of General Manager 2010 Performance Evaluation
Director Bagley shared that packets had been sent out to all Directors
with material on the General Manager’s performance. They will have a
discussion in the Executive Session on Tuesday, December 21 which
they will follow with a resolution for voting pertaining to the GM’s
performance.
The GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee also
shared their desire to have the 4 th quarter of the previous year combined
with the three quarters in the current year for the evaluation period to
adjust for the implications of the performance measures and the
initiatives from the advance planning that gets incorporated into the
budget. After reviewing the language of the existing contract that is
based on a calendar year, the Committee concluded an amendment
would be required in the contract for this change. More discussion is
needed.
The GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee will also
review the survey monkey tool to make appropriate modifications to it
for the next survey.

IV.

Other Matters
Director Tayer would like a public forum (i.e. hearing) where
constituents and organized groups can provide direct input to the Board
members related to the APE recommendations. This hearing would

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6
occur in early February prior to the Board meeting to allow sufficient
time for the Board to respond.
Several other ideas for public input were made including having the
Board members to go out and have engaging dialogues with the
constituents. There was concern around the timing element prior to the
February vote.
After more discussion the request that went forward by Director Tayer
is to include a public comment session (i.e. public hearing) on the APE
recommendation on the February 1 FasTracks meeting. Speakers will
be provided three minutes similar to the Board meeting public
participation.




V.

Director Bagley expressed some concerns around the recent Federal
station decision and what message it may be sending to the
development community as it relates to our commitments to TOD. Phil
Washington responded that RTD cannot move ahead with the support
of our stakeholders (i.e. the local jurisdiction) and when Adams County
Commissioners withdrew their support, this left RTD with no other
option. He believes the developers understand this conundrum. The
FTA had also expressed concern.
Director Bagley shared there was good dialogue at the CAC quarterly
meeting on 12/15. Eight Board members were in attendance. He
expressed disappointment that by the time of the meeting no member
of the senior leadership was there to partake in the round table
discussion. Phil Washington indicated that it was not clear to the
senior leadership that their participation was required. Director Bagley
indicated that CAC will provide their recommendation at the next
FasTracks meeting.
Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:10 p.m.

