2025-01-14
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. All right. The Tuesday, January 14 Finance and Planning Committee will
now come to order. We're convened as of 5:31 PM.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via
Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of
the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we're providing Communication Access Real-Time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at,
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish.
A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the role of
the committee members. Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I'm here.

JULIEN BOUQUET: And for the record, I would also note that I see Directors Paglieri, Director Whitmore,
and Director Ruscha. Are there any other Directors that I missed?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Director-- is Director Guissinger on?
JULIEN BOUQUET: She's part of the committee.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Oh. That's right. Sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Perfect. OK, so I have Director Paglieri, Director Whitmore, and Director
Ruscha as joining us tonight. Thank you for joining us.
All right. Perfect. The first item on the agenda this evening is the selection of the Committee Chair and
Vice Chair. As the Board Chair, I will facilitate the election, and once both seats are filled, turn over the
meeting to the new Committee Chair.
Unlike the executive committee election process, which uses secret ballots for the election of Board
officers, for committee leadership appointments, we will proceed with open nominations, discussion, and
vote by the full committee. We will begin with selection of the Chair and then Vice Chair.
We allow up to three minutes for those Board members who nominate a candidate, those seconding
nominations, if any, and any other members who wish to speak regarding the candidates to speak. I'll
then call for a vote and the candidate with the most votes will be appointed. If only one Director is
nominated, the committee may proceed by acclamation and the Director will be appointed. With that
being said, I'll start by asking for nominations for Committee Chair.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr. Chairman, Patrick O'Keefe. I would nominate Michael Guzman for Committee
Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect.
KAREN BENKER: I would second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. I got Director Guzman as nominee for Chair. Are there any other nominees
for Chair? Speak now or forever hold your peace.
Perfect. So with only Director Guzman having been nominated as Committee Chair, I will ask if anyone is
opposed to appointing Director Guzman to this position of Committee Chair by acclamation. Are there any
opposed?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr. Chair, I'm not opposed. But I'm wondering if I could just say a couple of words in
support of Mr. Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely, Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So I've gotten to know Michael over the last few months and I've been really
impressed with his knowledge. Particularly on the finance side is where I've seen him. I know he has
many other skills and other strengths. But for finance, I was kind of blown away with how long he's been
on the Board and what he's learned. And so that's just a commendation for him and why I was
enthusiastic to nominate him.

The one thing I'd say about-- he has two committees that he would chair, assuming no one else comes up
with the nominee before we're done. And I think the-- just to take a step back, I think one of the greatest
strengths of boards that I've worked with corporate, nonprofit, and government is diversity.
You want diversity of thought, you want diversity of background. You want diversity of heritage. You want
diversity economics, if you can. And I think we have that across this Board. Individually, people have life
stories that are just unbelievable to me.
The one thing that is kind of more binary and I think it's also a huge strength, but I wanted to note it, is we
have people-- we have eight Directors that have great context. They've been involved with RTD. They've
been involved with many of the decisions. They've set plans. And that's a huge credit to the Board, that
we have that many people that are on there that can provide that context.
On the other side, we have seven people who have fresh eyes, and that also is a huge strength. And
what I think will make the Board better is when we both learn from each other. We learn the context and
the Directors that are returning Directors give us-- to make use of our fresh eyes. And so I'm thrilled that
we have this and I think that is a Board that's set for success. And that's what I wanted to say generally
and about Mr. Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director O'Keefe, for the words. I saw Director Benker's hand
up next.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, thank you. Excuse me. I just wanted to-- I had a chance to talk to Michael just a
little while ago, and I understand he was Vice Chair of the committee last year. So clearly he has a lot of
knowledge and a lot of experience about how to run the committee topics that we need to dig into, what's
really important for the Board to pay attention to, and what should be left for staff.
And so I think we can work as a good team with a lot of questions. For us newbies here, we still have a lot
to learn. And so, as Director O'Keefe was saying, I think the knowledge going back and forth between the
new members and the members that have been here for a little longer and have learned how RTD works,
I think the education for all of us will be very beneficial.
So I look forward to working with you at the Finance Committee. I think it's going to be fun. Numbers are
fun.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Benker, for the kind words. All right. Director Catlin, I
see you up next.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I've stepped back from some leadership roles this year because of
family health reasons, but I just wanted to say that Michael has really grown in his Vice Chair position in
charge of finance.
But I would have to say that if people are concerned about wearing multiple chair hats, that's something
that is doable. And I have done that in several years as-- in my seventh year on this Board. And it's
actually nice to be able to merge those committees together because they are so interdependent.
So I just wanted to say it's not only possible, but sometimes beneficial to have multiple leadership
assignments for one individual. So I support Michael in this role, as I did in his leadership role for
Performance. But I just wanted to make that comment that I think you're very, very up to the task,
Michael. Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. And now I see Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I'm no longer a member of this committee, so I appreciate
you recognizing me. I'll keep it brief.
I just wanted to add something that I think is really important when we talk about the duties of being
Chair. And I served on this Committee and OSS last year under two excellent Chairs. And one thing that I
had with Director Guzman and former Director Tisdale is they were very, very skilled in making sure
questions were answered and we had access to information. Because some of those packets are really
dense, and there's a few times a year where it's hitting 1,000 pages, and that takes time.
And I just wanted to comment how much I appreciated it at the time. But upon reflecting at the end of the
year, that took a lot of their time as well. And even just after performance yesterday, I had a couple of
questions for Director Guzman.
And even though he had family obligations and a day job, he made the time, called me, and filled me in.
So I just wanted to say there's a lot that gets done behind the scenes, and a lot of it is making sure folks
are getting what they need.
And since I believe Director Guissinger is on this call, she did reference Director Guzman as most
improved player and I'm very competitive. That being said, if I were on this committee,
I would be wholeheartedly voting yes. And I'm very proud of Director Guzman and all that he
accomplished last year, but he was a really good example in communicating and helping folks out. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you so much, Director Ruscha, for the comments. Are there any
further comments from Directors in regards to-- all right. Excellent.
Well, again, I'm seeing no opposition. Any opposed to moving forward with Director Guzman to being the
next Committee Chair? All right, I don't see any. So congratulations, Committee Chair Guzman.
Perfect. I'm about ready to turn the meeting over to you. Got to finish up the Vice Chair elections, though.
So with that being said, I'll now ask for nominations for Committee Vice Chair. Are there any nominations
for Vice Chair. Director Guzman? Or I should say, Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Still Director, just for the moment. But being a member of this committee is difficult.
And numbers can be challenging, even when we don't want them to be. But they are fun and enjoyable.
And this Committee has two parts. It's finance and it's planning. So there are two different aspects to the
work that is accomplished here. It is my humble honor and a great responsibility to bring forward the
talents on this committee.
And so it is with great respect that I nominate Director Karen Benker from District I as the Vice Chair of
the Committee. And I would love to have her knowledge, her skill available to all of us in a leadership
capacity to help us dig in further with matters of the budget. And with an acute eye for details that we may
be missing and need to better understand and to help us guide conversations with staff, create a work
plan that listens to everybody and honors everybody's desires to make this agency better as we work
collaboratively to that end.

Always for the betterment of the agency, because we are servants and our service is to the public, but
also protecting our 3,000 plus employees and doing all that we can to make sure that our planning is solid
so that the financial information we present to the public in the use of their money and in the sustainment
of this agency continues on. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Guzman.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Do I have-- So I have a second from-PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second, O'Keefe.
JULIEN BOUQUET: --O'Keefe. Excellent. At this time, do I see any other nominations for Vice Chair of
the committee?
At this time, would anyone like to say any words regarding Director Benker as the nominee? Perfect.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr. Chair. Just-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Just real briefly, I had the pleasure of going up to visit now Director Benker's District.
She was a Director elect then. And I was astounded with her knowledge of the district and I learned a lot
about the budgeting, just in a couple hour trip up there, driving around with her and being able to ask her
questions. So I'm thrilled that she would be in this role.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Director O'Keefe, for the words. I see Director Catlin's
hand up next.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I've known Director Benker for more years than I think Director Paglieri has
been alive. But I know that she's got a very, very strong background in budget and finance, and I'm
wholeheartedly supporting her in this role and know that she will do a great job. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much for the words, Director Catlin. Well, perfect. Finally, Director
Benker, would you like to-KAREN BENKER: Yes. I just want to thank everybody for your support, truly. I see the work of this
committee as a team so that everyone has a voice and everyone gets to help decide what topics you
want to cover, and how we go about it, and what's important for you.
So I'm hoping we have some vigorous discussions coming up, and some good times and friendships. And
just FYI, something I learned a long time ago, someone told me because I've been in budgeting for a
while. Somebody said, he who has the gold makes the rules. So I just wanted to let the Finance
Committee know that, because hey, we've got the RTD budget now. But thank you. I appreciate your
help.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Benker. All right. Final call for any other nominations
for Vice Chair.

All right. Thank you, F&P. You're making my life easy. I don't have to count votes. So with only Director
Benker having been nominated as Committee Vice Chair, I will ask if anyone is opposed to appointing
Director Benker to the position of Committee Vice Chair by acclamation.
Seeing none. Congratulations, Committee Vice Chair Benker. Congratulations.
Now that my election duties are complete, I will now ask the newly elected Committee Chair Guzman to
take over for the rest of the meeting. Congratulations to both of you. The meeting is now yours, Chair
Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to it. Thank you so
much.
We are going to continue on to the public comment section of our meeting. I would like to open public
comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published
meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not
already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not-- excuse me, will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised or public comment at this time? I
see no hands raised, Mr.-JACK KROLL: Mr. Guzman, there are no hands raised at this time. And in anticipation of your subsequent
question, no emailed comments were received as public comment for this meeting prior to you all coming
to order.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. With no participants in queue and no comments at this time,
we will close the public comment period. We have a discussion item.
There is one discussion item tonight on the agenda. This evening, we would like to discuss the 2025
Finance and Planning Committee work plan. I would like to ask Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive
Manager, as well as the Chief Financial Officer, CFO, Doug MacLeod, to present this item. Are there any- go ahead. It is yours.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, I'll start off, and then CFO MacLeod can fill in any gaps. Really,
the purpose of our discussion, or what I want to share with you all, is give some of the new folks on the
committee some background as to where these work plans come from and where they fit in, the steps to
getting them over the finish line.
And then, obviously, you can see from the packet that there's a number of items that have already been
enumerated on the work plan, and that is input from staff that directly supports the Finance and Planning
committee's work. And you can see that there's quite a bit in there. And certainly, CFO MacLeod can
speak to any questions that may be on those specific items.
But the work plans are generally a path to help Directors in the Board funnel Director interests in an
organized manner. When I first started here, there was a lot of, hey, can we look into that? And hey, can
we look into this?

And there wasn't a really structured way to go about ensuring that the committee's time was used most
efficiently. Obviously, the Board meets several times each month via its committees and then as a body
itself. But the time that you all commit to your service on the Board is probably your most valuable asset.
And the work plans are a way to ensure that items that come before you all and take up that time are
widely supported by Directors.
As you can see through this work plan and the subsequent work plans that your peer committees will take
a look at, there's a lot that's going to come to this Board before Directors even chime in and say, hey, let's
look at these three or four things. And so having that awareness and understanding, and also allowing
staff the time to prepare for these discussions is really important.
So it's kind of twofold. What do you have to get done, what would you like to get done, and channeling in
and having that fit in. It also prevents work plans to duplication between committees.
You can see where, because the Board's interests are varied, there might be times when several different
Board members on different committees have similar interests. Well, having a work plan and having that
awareness amongst the committees of what other committees are focusing on ensures that efforts aren't
duplicated.
And so the process that we have gotten to at this point is the Board Office worked with staff to populate
the draft work plan as you see it in your packet. You all are going to discuss this this evening and begin to
brainstorm ideas that you might like to see on this work plan.
The Board Office is also debuting a new tool. This is some of the feedback we've received from Directors.
And we're going to solicit, or transmit that tool to you in the next couple of days here, where we're actually
going to be soliciting from Board members ideas that you have for-- or objectives that you have to focus
on this year. And then we will compile all of the information that we get back from Directors via that form
and provide that to you all in your retreat in a couple of weeks to help you all prioritize and understand
what other Directors are interested in.
In addition to that exercise, the newly elected leadership of each of your standing committees is going to
subsequently meet with the staff that supports each of the committees, the senior staff. So GM CEO
Johnson, in this instance, CFO MacLeod, and then someone from the Planning division will also likely join
for that conversation. And then you all can begin to understand here are all the things that the Board
members are interested in. And as staff and committee leadership, you can figure out where to slot these
ideas in, what ideas have the most support for exploring further, et cetera.
Then you all will revisit your work plans at your February meeting. And at the February meeting, you may
be in a position to approve the work plans, or you can wait and discuss them again, and approve them in
March. The way this is set up is that once the work plans are approved by the committee, the full Board
reviews them, but does not approve them.
The committees are the final source of approval for your work plans. But having the full Board review
them ensures that there's alignment and awareness amongst the full Board as to what each committee is
focusing on.
So with that background on how we've gotten to this point and where you all are headed, I'm happy to
turn things over to CFO McLeod to fill in any gaps that I might have missed, and obviously address any
questions Directors may have around the current contents of the work plan.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Good evening. As Jack mentioned, this is a planning document.
What you'll see in the work plan has been reviewed with General Manager Johnson and really reflects the
recurring items that we have on an annual basis. There is one exception, and of course, this is living
document. Things do come up that need to be discussed with Finance and Planning Committee, one
example being in February.
We will be bringing a refinancing request for one of our debt issuances. Those are some of the periodic
things, or an example of an unusual or periodic thing that comes up that we would like to bring before the
committee. So with that, Chair Guzman, I'd like to turn the floor over to you and offer up availability for
any questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. So I want to add just a couple of things. Of course, tonight's
our first meeting, so very initial thoughts can be recorded tonight.
If you have something that occurs to you later, please, please email them to me and I will add it. Also, we
will have a couple of different opportunities to get feedback from you. I really do want to ask this
committee and any other Directors that are present to please fill out the form that will be sent to you to
solicit feedback for the work plans.
That will help in planning both for our retreat and to ensure that we can find alignments where they are,
and provide the greatest opportunity to solicit your feedback and get anything that we need to get from
you so that we can work on making sure we prioritize what's going on. So the form will be the primary
source of that information and it will guide your thinking process, hopefully stir some thinking about what
is important and how important it is and ranking that. Also, feel free to email me directly at my RTD email
so that we can include any information. If it's just a follow up, we can certainly do that.
Finally, we probably need to narrow things down. In reality, we have a full calendar year as Directors,
which means nine months of actual work time that we can dedicate to getting things done. So we are not
going to be able to do everything under the sun. And we do have a 2025 budget in place that we need to
respect and we need to work within the bounds of while we work to achieve a different or a modified
budget for 2026 that will hopefully achieve different ends.
So always in the service of the agency, and with respect to our employees, I want to make sure that that's
how we approach things. But with respect for all of you, I do need your feedback and I'm soliciting it. So
thank you. Chair Bouquet, you have your hand raised. You're recognized.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. I just wanted to plug and add weight to what Director
Guzman said in regards to the form. So that will greatly help guide the discussion that will happen during
that retreat in February.
So please, I advocate. This is a new tool. It's a tool that I'm excited about and I want to thank Director
Kroll and his team for-- or excuse me, Mr. Kroll and his team for getting that organized.
So I plead, please, please, if you have ideas in regards to what you want to see on Finance and Planning
going to '25, obviously it's going to be your guys' discussion during the retreat as in regards of what you
prioritize. But please fill out that form, give some input, give some feedback so you can have a good
discussion during the retreat.

And finally, as Mr. MacLeod said, it is a living document as well. So if items are not ultimately addressed
during the retreat, there is opportunity later on. And again, as Chair Guzman said, there's only so much
we can get to.
So prioritizing what's important, that is going to be large. So again, fill out that form. It'll greatly help out.
Thank you, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I would be remiss not to say this. I'm very proud of the fact that the
Finance and Planning Committee completed our work plan last year to 100%, which gave us the
opportunity to pull things up that we didn't think we'd be able to.
And so I will steal a line from Chair Bouquet. I will die on the hill that we will get this work plan done this
year. But we will balance it so that we can get as much done as possible with respect to our time and staff
time and what is realizable. So let's get her done.
I am ready to entertain questions for CFO MacLeod or take notes quickly about initial thoughts. Anybody
on the committee? Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: I understand we're going to be filling out a form, and I think that's the best way to
proceed. But at least, just to put a few items on the table for some thought, get some ideas out there,
maybe start a discussion or two.
Some of the things that I've been thinking of, I just tried to jot a few down earlier today. But one is-- and
this would be for probably our Finance CFO-- to get a good update on the close out of fiscal year 2024.
How did our sales taxes come in versus our estimates?
I would also like to see, if possible, at most meetings, it can be very short and brief, but just to see where
our sales taxes are coming in since that is our largest revenue source. It's always good to keep tabs on
what's going on with them. And for 2024, of course, the holiday season is where most of the retail
purchases are made. So I'm hoping that December was a good month for us.
A couple of other things. Cost of the Union contract. I had a chance to visit today with GM Johnson and
she told me we're going to be briefed pretty shortly about what's going on with negotiations. And while the
actual contract is really important, of course it's going to affect our bottom line. So we need to figure out
how that's going to affect our current budget and also future.
Some of the other things. If we have time this year, I'd like to take a good look at farebox revenue,
because previously when I served, we were up around I think it was 20% or 25%, in fact, it was
mandated, and now we're down to about 4% So I'd like to get an idea of what has gone on over the past
couple of years and where our farebox money is actually coming in. Like, is it from eco passes, or student
passes, or actual revenues coming from folks stepping on the bus?
And let's see. I know we're going to be talking to, at some point, probably fairly soon, about Front Range
Passenger Rail and how it's going to be affecting RTD. And so those are just a couple of things that I was
thinking about today. And I'll go ahead and I'll fill out the form, per your request.
And hopefully that'll just prod some of you to be thinking about the kinds of things that you'd like to find
out more about RTD and where you would like to delve into some of the topics that we're going to be
talking about this year. And not just talking, but voting, making decisions on. So anyway, so there's my
first suggestions.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. And I am sorry. It is Vice Chair Benker. I am at fault. Director
O'Keefe, your hand is raised.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Question. Is there a way for us to get input from the CAC on
what they think should be priorities for the committee prior to closing out the work plan?
I'm not sure what form that would be. I'd love it to be conversational. But I would like, in the spirit of
learning the agency from management side, learning it from the governance side, and then wanting to still
listen to the constituencies that are out there, I think that would be valuable. I just don't know if there's a
way to do it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Director O'Keefe. That's a fantastic question, and one that I think the CAC would be
delighted to hear. And they would be happy-- not necessarily speaking for them, but I'm sure they would
be happy to engage in a conversation around it. We can tee that up for their February meeting and they
can discuss the current status, I think, really, of all the committee's work plans at that juncture.
And we could solicit that feedback and input, and that could inform the committee's conversation on the
work plan, if you all decided to approve it in March. And again, I think February is an aspirational goal to
get it approved. But if you wanted to have that CAC input, it would mean almost certainly pushing back
the approval of the work plan to march, which is not the end of the world by any means.
The work plans actually contemplate what the committee will look at and discuss actually through January
and February of 2026 in order to account for this sort of lag every year. And if you noticed, there was an
election this year, and that brought in a lot of new folks. And so these January committee meetings are
kind of quiet.
But there's nothing to say in subsequent years that these January meetings of all of your committees
could be more substantive as far as topics are concerned. And that's a tool that we can look at to fit things
into the timeline better.
The final thing I'll say with respect to the CAC and work plans is that I actually place an expectation as the
staff liaison to the CAC that they look at your completed work plans and use that to develop their
feedback and interest through the years, because they want to make sure that they're providing timely
input on things that matter to you all as the Board. And so looking in advance as to what you all will be
tackling helps inform them what they need to look at so that they can provide you timely and relative
input.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Mr. Chair? That's all I had.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. It's actually a great idea. I'm certain that Vice Chair Benker and I would
be willing to engage with them, too. Maybe a little bit early just to queue that up if we are called upon.
But as Mr. Kroll said, he is the liaison between the Board and the CAC. So I would look to him for
expectations and guidance on how best to proceed with that. Anybody else?
OK, I don't see any hands raised. I'm going to offer a couple of things that I would like us to consider.
One, with respect to planning, this year is the year I do believe we need to begin some work and planning
on a comprehensive operational analysis update.

General Manager CEO Johnson, we have discussed this. It is part of the regular work duties and it's just
the time. It's been about a decade since the last one is done. And so we need to have enough time to
continue that work forward. It's not something that is going to be an immediate step, but I would like to
engage in some conversation around that. CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Greetings, all. Debra
Johnson, General Manager and CEO. Just a point of clarification in reference to our comprehensive
operational analysis, which was branded as a System Optimization Plan.
The agency had not had a COA done in a period of time. It had been 14 years prior to the
commencement of the System Optimization Plan implementation Reimagine RTD in 2018. It was
sidelined due to the COVID pandemic.
So I just wanted to qualify that it there was an iterative phase of that and it is the intent of staff and I to
embark upon preparations relative to a subsequent COA. And coming forward in the summer will be an
update relative to the information that is contained in the current System Optimization Plan that will be
used as a springboard as we prepare going forward. So thank you very much, Chair, for the opportunity
to expand upon your statement.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Also, I would like to make sure that we provide ourselves with any
opportunity to utilize our best resources. And so I discussed with General Manager CEO Johnson today
the possibility of creating a work study opportunity, or maybe through this committee.
I'm not sure what would be appropriate. And I'm sure Chair Bouquet will have to weigh in on this, but to
invite the state demographer to come in and speak with us as the Planning Committee, or with the Board
as a whole about what is projected to be in the demography of the Regional Transportation District
completely and in the terms of our subdistricts that we look after and represent.
That ties into everything going on at the state, from sales and use tax, to transit-oriented development, to
what is possible and where we need to be, and who we need to move. If we are going to live up to the
goal of being the first in transportation and also make good connections, as is our mission, then we need
to understand who we're moving and where we're moving them to. So I put that forward for anybody who
might be interested in it, but I am sure that Chair Bouquet and I will have a further conversation about
that.
Finally, Mr. McLeod, this one is for you very specifically and for your team. I do believe we need to go
through a study session of the current budget with the new Directors. I know that there is a special
training that is dedicated to things that we do in finance.
But very quickly, we will get the update that is required by law about the sales and use tax wrap up from
2024 and a five-year forecast from the CU Leeds School of Business that will help us understand where
we're looking at for the next five years. So all of that together helps us guide what planning looks like for
the financial picture going forward. And as we have heard from the previous Chair, Erik Davidson, things
look OK through about 2030.
And then we've got to do some worrying. And so we're there. Let's worry about it. But we need to get our
information first and be able to come up with a strong plan.
Also looking at the sales and use tax going forward is going to be imperative. And working in cooperation
with this Operations and Safety and Security-- Operation, Safety, and Security Committee, as well as the

Performance Committee to ensure that we are putting those sales and use tax dollars to the right work at
the agency will come through this committee in cooperation with our general Manager CEO and our
finance team. So, Mr. McLeod, would you like to speak to what training or study sessions we might be
able to look forward to? Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Committee Chair Guzman. Yes, and there will be some training sessions
that are scheduled, I believe, for March. I'll have to-- for finance in particular, I think there's a couple days
set aside as placeholders.
So yes, thank you for the ideas, and to Vice Chair Benker as well. I've written those down and we'll be
sure to cover those topics. So yes, if there's anything else you think of that might be relevant that you'd
like to hear about, I'd be happy to present those as well. So I'll include those topics in our discussion
slides.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. One more chance. Anybody else?
All right. I'm going to lean in and repeat this. Please fill out the form. Please rank your suggestions so that
we understand the value of the input and the import.
One last thing that I will say is that we will get our work done and the right work done. So I appreciate
working with all of you, and I'm looking forward to a robust year on our committee, but with a balanced
approach that will get everything in. Madam CEO, do you have anything to add at this point? Please.
You're recognized.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I was trying to get to my mute button.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity. Just wanted to reiterate that
the team and I will be working very closely with all members of the Board, and we want to ensure that we
are being good fiduciaries and good public servants. And also, as we look forward to what lies ahead
from a transportation long-term planning aspect, quite naturally, we can't do this alone.
And we work in conjunction with the Denver Regional Council of Governments that serve as the local
Metropolitan planning organization, which I believe is critically important as it relates to where we stand
from the Federal Transit Administration's vantage point in reference to formulaic and discretionary dollars.
So just wanted to iterate there's an opportunity for us to actually lean in and educate and inform all that
are involved with this very critical work. Thank you very much for the opportunity to share those thoughts.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. That triggers one more thing for the new Directors that have joined us.
There are plenty of opportunities to train and learn, and I hope that you take full advantage of them,
including the opportunity to go to several conferences during the year that are included in your
Educational Development Federal Transit Administration Ongoing Funding and Grants, and all of that
information is covered through various modes.
But it does come with strings attached, as all money does. And so we need to be aware of what those
ramifications are and what the limitations are. So I strongly encourage, as is part of your training, to take
full advantage of any educational or learning opportunities. If you don't know what they are, please reach
out. The staff in the Board Office is excellent at helping us find what works for us and what is beneficial
for our role.

And as always, APTA, the American Public Transportation Association, is an excellent resource for all
information. And we are all members, as Board Directors. I believe Mr. Kroll sent out an email earlier
today from the new President of the Board Members Association. I'm not getting that name right, but you
will all know what I'm referencing if you look in your email. So please take advantage of that.
All right. I will close out this part of the conversation and the agenda and we will move to other matters.
Are there any other matters to discuss at this time?
Seeing none, I would like to raise one issue. And that is to please remember that when we are on Zoom
or at the regular meetings of the Board, it is appropriate to raise your hand to be recognized. That is for
two reasons.
We have a transcriptionist. We need to know who is speaking and it is not always easy to capture that
unless your name is called. It helps keep the record straight and also helps just keep efficiency in the
meeting.
When you speak, please do not speak so quickly you wouldn't be able to type your own words. The
transcriptionists are not allowed to interrupt our proceedings and it is sometimes difficult for them to catch
up. I do utilize the service myself to see what's being said in Spanish. It helps a great deal.
But when it's unclear what has been said, it can cause issues for Directors who may have need of the
CART services, or for the public who are trying to follow the meetings and may not have adequate
opportunity to understand what's being said because we're speaking too fast. So clear, slow, and steady
will win the race every day.
That said, one more chance. Any other matters? I see none. Thank you so much, everybody, for your
participation. Staff, thank you for being here on a late Tuesday night.
Our next meeting date will be Tuesday, February 11 at 5:30. And I will seek a motion to adjourn.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Catlin. We are now adjourned at 6:16 PM. Good night,
everybody.

