Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 20, 2016 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
A.

Approval of Proclamation for Chair Tobiassen

B.

Approval of Proclamation for Kent Bagley

C.

Approval of Proclamation for Bill James

D.

Approval of Proclamation of Gary Lasater

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Lasater
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Chair Tobiassen
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Chair Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 29, 2016

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

DUSPA Refinancing Proposal

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of sales tax revenue bonds (FasTracks Project) of the Regional Transportation
District (Colorado) to retire certain outstanding obligations; providing for other matters
related to such bonds and the security therefor; and approving the execution and delivery
of certain documents in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
B.

Refunding 2007A FT Bonds

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of sales tax revenue bonds (FasTracks Project) of the Regional Transportation
District (Colorado) to refund certain outstanding FasTrack Bonds; providing for other
matters related to such Bonds and the security therefor; and approving the execution and
delivery of certain documents in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
C.

Refunding 2002A COP

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and related documents
in connection with the refinancing of the 2002A transit vehicle project.
D.

Update to the 2017 Quarterly Performance Report

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt updated 2017 Quarterly Performance Measures to include measures for
ridership, fare revenue, total operating revenue, and commuter rail.
E.

Approval of Financial Advisor Selection

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to First Southwest, a division of Hill Top Securities to act as financial advisor (and
Municipal Advisor as defined by the Securities Exchange Commission) not to exceed
$600,000 over a maximum of 5 years.
F.

Naming Rights Implementation

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve transferring $144,000 from the Board Appropriated Reserve to

the Naming Rights Implementation Project for signage and the 2016 commission to WME/
IMG.
G.

Audit Charter

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Amended Audit Charter.
H.

Annual Audit Plan 2017

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2017.
I.

DRCOG Vanpool Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program in the
Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2017 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $1,058,600.
J.

5311 Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2017 and for amounts not to exceed $372,232.00 for
Boulder County, $366.026.00 for Adams County and $113,411.00 for Jefferson County.
K.

Hop Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial
areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business
and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2017 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,454,514.00.
L.

Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of

Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2017 and is for an amount not to exceed
$311,356.00.
M.

Authorization to enter into contract with Nordco Mobile Railcar Movers (16DR004)

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract with
Nordco Mobile Railcar Movers for the purchase of a LRV Recovery Vehicle in the amount
of $550,360.00.
N.

Code of Conduct for Persons on RTD Vehicles and Property

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Code of Conduct for persons on RTD vehicles and
property.

XII.

Recommended Action
O.

Local Government Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No. 16-DO-025 for Local
Government Liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc. (CRL) for three years (January 1,
2017 through December 31, 2019), at a cost of $102,000 per year, and for two (2)
additional one-year options to renew at prices specified in the Contract, each option period
contingent upon approval by the Board of Directors pursuant to the Contract Award
agreement.
P.

Federal Liaison Services

It is recommended by the RTD Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for federal liaison
services with Squire Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year option (January 1, 2017
through December 31, 2017) to extend Contract No. 14-DX-001, at a cost of $264,000.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2017 budget.
Q.

Option to Purchase Real Property at 2907-2915 Welton Street

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary for the grant of an option, and for the sale of the real property
located at 2907-2915 Welton Street, Denver Colorado (the “Property”), including
execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents.
R.

Parking Guiding Principles

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached parking guiding principles resolution to provide policy direction
to RTD staff on parking related issues moving forward.

S.

Approval of General Manager's 2016 Performance Evaluation

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General Manager’s performance
appraisal for 2016 as defined in the attached completed General Manager’s Performance
Evaluation Form. Although the Board feels you have achieved or exceeded your overall
goals for the 2016 Performance Appraisal, with current public perception and extenuating
circumstances with launch of the Commuter rail along with the challenges with Smart
Card implementation the recommendation is not to award a discretionary payout for 2016.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

