Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
First Vice Chair – Bill Christopher, District J
Second Vice Chair – O’Neill P. Quinlan, District G
Secretary – Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Treasurer – Lee Kemp, District I
Noel Busck, District K
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill Elfenbein, District A
Daryl Kinton, District H

Bill McMullen, District E
Wally Pulliam, District L
Dave Ruchman, District M
John Tayer, District O
Barbara Yamrick, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, June 19, 2007 at 5:30PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Henry Sandoval, Bus Operator – 32 Years of Service
Donald Saiz, Bus Operator – 22 Years of Service

RECOGNITION OF INTERNATIONAL ROADEO PARTICIPANTS
Bus International Participants
John Deschner

Maintenance International Participants
Mitch Higgins
Mark Deay-Reusch
Kurt Akin
Rail International Participants
Carl Hall
Juston Hrubes
Bob Pomeroy
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
THANK YOU.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Ruchman
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Pulliam
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Contracted Operational Services Committee - Chaired by Director Yamrick
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director McMullen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Kemp
Technology Committee - Chaired by Director Quinlan
Audit-Sub Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Quinlan
E-470 – Director Busck
ACED – Director Busck
DRCOG-Director Elfenbein
Northwest Parkway-Director Pulliam or Director Kemp
Pension Committee-Director Pulliam
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Christopher
Chairman’s Report-Chair Chris Martinez

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF MAY 15, 2007

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

A.

Award of access-a-Ride Call Center Contract
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into contract with
First Transit for the operations of the access-a-Ride Call Center for a five-year period at
an amount not-to-exceed $9,494,088.00. Performance under this contract shall
commence November 3, 2007.

B.

Amendment of Special Transit ADA Paratransit Services contract (12-DO-113) for the
provision of “South Thornton/Northglenn call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing ADA
Paratransit services contract with Special Transit (12-DO-113) for the provision of the
“South Thornton/Northglenn call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment will be for
the duration of the existing contract. The cost shall not exceed $68,910. This cost
includes an estimate for fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense. The
service is scheduled to begin August 19, 2007 and run through the end of the current
ADA Paratransit Services contract, December 31, 2007.

C.

Paratransit Service Contract Extensions
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize amendments to the contracts with all ADA service providers to
extend these contracts for approximately 60 days in order to provide access-a-Ride
services through December 31st, 2007 instead of the original end dates of November 1,
2007. These contracts include Special Transit (12-DO-113), Laidlaw Transit Services
(12-DO-114), Global Transportation (12-DO-115), CUSA (12-DO-104) and MV
Transportation (12-DO-116). The amendments will be for a combined total of $4
million dollars which includes fuel costs. In addition, it is recommended by the
Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
amendments to the contracts with Special Transit (12-DO-113) and Laidlaw Transit
Services (12-DO-114), for a combined total of $653,393 dollars which includes fuel
costs in order to extend these contracts to provide call-n-Ride services through
December 31st, 2007 instead of the original end dates on November 1, 2007.

D.

West Corridor Construction Manager General Contractor, Contract Amendment for
Consultation, Civil and Systems
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
contract amendments to The Denver Transit Construction Group (DTCG), the
Construction Manager General Contractor (CMGC) for the West Corridor, in the amount
of $ 182,000 for the extension of services under Task Order 1, Consultation, Civil and
Systems of their contract 16FFW01. The services under this extension include but are
not limited to; Development of a Best Value Request for Proposals for completion of
systems design that includes, procurement of system elements and installation of
systems elements, analysis of proposals and advise RTD on best direction for systems
procurement and installation; refinement of civil, bridge and tunnel designs in
conjunction the DEA design team with regard to the impacts of the VE items. Funding
for this amendment is available in the FasTracks budget for the West Corridor.

E.

On-Call Engineering & Design Services Contract, July 2007 through July 2012
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to the most qualified proposer, Huitt-Zollars, Inc, in the
estimated not-to-exceed amount of $5,000,000 for the On-Call Engineering & Design
Services Contract. It will have a five-year duration and be administered on an asneeded, work order basis. It is based on the 2007-2012 projected TDP and currently
budgeted projects.

F.

FTA Penta P Resolution No.__ Series of 2007
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the re-submission of an application to the Federal Transit
Administration’s Penta P program for the Gold Line and East Corridor and the selection
of a preferred alternative of “commuter rail” for the East Corridor.

G.

Approval of Morgan Stanley to provide Investment Banking and Swap Counterparty
Services to the RTD
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the addition of Morgan Stanley (in the capabilities of co-manager and
swap counterparty) to the list of firms qualified to provide investment banking services
and swap counterparty services to the Regional Transportation District.
There is no specific task associated with this authorization.

H.

Consulting Services – Network Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract extension for option year 2 for non-personal Consulting Services-Systems
Support for the amount of $249,984 with an effective date of September 1, 2007.
This vendor, Network Technology Corporation, was selected through the competitive
bid process in 2006.

I.

Oracle Database Administrator
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract in the amount of $160,000 for Personal Services of an IT Oracle Database
Administrator (DBA)(17DJ001). The contract is to be awarded to DatamanUSA
following a competitive review of four submitted proposals. The contract runs for a
period of one year with two additional year options. This has been determined to be a
personal service contract by Legal Counsel.
DatamanUSA is a 100% Disadvantage/Small Business Enterprise Certified Firm.

J.

Contract for Enterprise Content Management (ECM) System
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to EMC Corporation to
supply an Enterprise Content Management (ECM) system. The total amount of the
contract will be $1,691,586, allocated as follows:
Software Procurement
Implementation Services
Training
Software Maintenance – 2007
Total Contract

$875,283
$650,805
$ 80,625
$ 84,873
$1,691,586

This system will replace the current out-dated records management system (Laserfiche)
for Planning and Development/FasTracks; automate the procurement function and
provide e-mail capture and archival for RTD. Documentum has been selected as the
vendor of choice through a competitive bid process.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $491,586
from FasTracks expense budget funding to FasTracks capital software acquisition to
fully fund the software procurement, implementation, and annual maintenance items in
the contract through the end of 2007. The 2007 Adopted Budget includes a total of
$1,200,000 for the ECM project, split between the base system capital budget,
$900,000, and the FasTracks capital budget of $300,000. The requested budget
transfer will fund the balance of the software procurement, implementation, and 2007
annual maintenance items in the contract within the 2007 Adopted Budget. Funding
for the annual maintenance payments for 2008-2010 of $169,746/year, will be
provided in the Information Technology Division expense budget on an annual basis.

K.

Rocky Mountain Rail Authority Agreement

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Regional Transportation
District commit to contributing $25,000 in 2007 and $25,000 in 2008, subject to
appropriations, to the Rocky Mountain Rail Authority (RMRA) for the purpose of
funding the feasibility study to ascertain the viability of passenger commuter rail along
the Front Range and the I-70 West Corridor. The General Manager will be authorized
to sign an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with RMRA committing expenditure of
the 2007 and 2008 funds, subject to appropriations. These funds will be used for
development of a feasibility study as detailed in the scope of work approved by the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT).

X.

L.

Amendment of Option Year Two for Maintenance and Shelter Cleaning services: Front
Range Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the Second Option Year of
Performance with Front Range Services (FRS) for the provision of shelter, park-n-Ride,
and parking structure maintenance and cleaning services under Contract No. 25DM002
in the amount of $280,000 for a total cumulative authorization of $692,947.60 with
the provision that the existing contract be amended to incorporate the provisions of the
Worker Supportive Policy and the funding authorization include whatever additional
funds are needed to implement the Policy. In the event that FRS declines to amend the
contract to include the Worker Supportive Policy, the General Manager is directed to
competitively select an alternate service provider whose services shall commence at
the conclusion of the Second Year Option in July of 2008, which solicitation shall
include provision of the Worker Supportive Policy.

M.

Amendment of Option Year Two for Maintenance and Shelter Cleaning services:
Grounds Service Company
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute the Second Option Year of
Performance with Grounds Service Company (GSCo) for the provision of maintenance
and shelter, park-n-Ride, and parking structure cleaning services under Contract No.
25DM003 in the amount of $290,000. This amendment will increase the authorization
for existing Contract No. 25DM003 by $290,000 for a total authorization of
$785,510.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
N.

RTD Board Commitment to FasTracks, Resolution No.__ Series of 2007

O.

Contract Extension with Lamar for Sale of On-Vehicle Advertising
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract
extension with Lamar Advertising Company for the sale of on-vehicle advertising. The
extension is for a two year period beginning January 1, 2008 and provides a minimum
annual guarantee of $2.8 million and 70 percent of net sales above $4.0 million.

P.

Approval of General Manager Contract
It is recommended by the GM Evaluation Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
approve the new General Manager contract dated July 1, 2007 which supersedes the
employment agreement dated December 15, 2004 and becomes effective July 1, 2007
through December 31, 2010 with automatic renewal for two additional one-year terms
unless terminated in writing or by mutual agreement from both parties.

Q.

West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals and Contract Amendment for the Design
and Costing of Approved or Agreed-Upon Items

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
contract amendments to the David Evans and Associates (DEA) for $850,000 for these
accepted Value Engineering items; Sheridan Boulevard Light Rail Bridge/Overpass,
Auraria Station Realignment, and Drainage Redesign west of Decatur. It is also
recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board defers
action until the July Board meeting on the remaining VE proposals, Single Track Section
from Denver Federal Center to Jefferson County, single track tunnel at I-70, Drainage
from east of Decatur to the South Platte River, and the relocation of the
Federal/Decatur Station and directs staff to continue to work to resolution of the
proposals with the impacted jurisdictions; Jefferson County, the City and County of
Denver and the Urban Drainage and Flood Control District; to the maximum extent
possible that benefits the project. Funding for this amendment is available in the
FasTracks budget for the West Corridor.
R.

Award of Contract – Public-Private Partnerships and Alternative Financing Advisor
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract with Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan as (joint) Public-Private Partnerships
and Alternative Financing Advisor to assist the RTD in evaluating the feasibility and
application of public-private partnerships, to revise the District’s FasTracks financial
model to reflect alternative financing and delivery approaches and to assist in the
preparation of procurement documents related to those certain components of the
FasTracks program which are determined to be attractive public-private partnership
candidates.
It is further recommended that the Finance and Administration Committee recommend
to the full Board a transfer of $200,000 from the FasTracks program management
capital budget to the FasTracks program management capital budget to the FasTracks
expense budget to cover the monthly retainer fees for the remainder of 2007.

S.

Approval of August 2007 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 19, 2007 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$131,100, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XII.

NEW BUSINESS

XIII.

ADJOURN

