Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 20, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
June 19, 2007 at 5:30 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
12 members were present at roll call. Directors Tayer and Kinton arrived after roll
call. Director Kemp was absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were two retirees. None were present to receive the award.
RECOGNITION OF INTERNATIONAL ROADEO PARTICIPANTS
Director Daly acknowledged the success of the RTD Bus, Maintenance and Rail
participants at the International Roadeo. The names of the winners are:
Bus International Participants
John Deschner
Maintenance International Participants
Mitch Higgins
Mark Deay-Reusch
Rail International Participants
Carl Hall
Juston Hrubes
Bob Pomeroy
On the June 19th agenda, the names of the Rail International participants were
inadvertently misspelled but corrected here for record.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Chair Martinez preferenced the public participation by noting that they would not be
voting on the type of technology selection tonight but would be voting in the July
meeting.

Mayor Randy Pye, City of Centennial, representing the Colorado Tomorrow Alliance
(CTA), read a letter of record providing their support to help FasTracks improve the
Regional quality of life. A copy of the letter is on file with these minutes in the
Board of Directors office.
Zane Johnson, Parker, CO, expressed concern on the validity of the ridership
numbers used to discontinue the route to Franktown. He contended that the
numbers were collected during the snowiest period when ridership was expectedly
low. He requested the Board to do nothing and to leave what is not broken alone.
He is anticipating the building of 1800 new homes in the area within the next 2
years and expects this will impact ridership drastically.
Pat Bollig, Franktown, CO, restated the perception that the numbers on ridership for
Franktown are erroneous and indicated that having the service is an asset to the
community.
Former Board Director Jack McCroskey thanked the Board for the SELR Jacket and
shared an article from 1992 on the creation of light rail.
Gail Brinby, Longmont CO, spoke to the importance of the Bolt service to that
community and questioned why express and regional routes are really not express
or regional. She questioned the design and efficiency of the local service.
Joel Noble, Historic Curtis Park, referenced a letter sent to the Board earlier from
the Curtis Park Neighbors encouraging the Board to respect the EIS process as it
relates to selection of EMU/DMU.
Brandi McCarty, Cold Creek Canyon, spoke on behalf of residents in the area who
are totally transit dependent and encouraged the reduction in services rather than
the total elimination of service to Cold Creek.
Dan Muse reserved the right to come back in July to speak on the issue of selection
of EMU versus DMU technology.
Andrew Skeels spoke on his desire to see EMU in the East Corridor citing the
concerns over noise, pollution, and vibration that he associated with DMU.
Craig Kocian, City Manager of Arvada, provided his support for the commuter rail
recommendation for Penta P and indicated that the City of Arvada supports EMU as
the preferred technology for the Gold line.
Penfield Tate indicated his support of EMU and asked also that the Board respect
the EIS process. He will return in July when the technology selection is on the
agenda.
Phil Greenwald, Transportation Planner for the City of Longmont, expressed
concerns on the J route including what he perceived as revised service standards

and the change in frequency of service for the Bolt. Please refer to the letter from
the Boulder County representatives which was sent to the Board members from
Director Tayer on 6/19/07.
Jake Jakubowski wanted to go on record as opposing Penta P and considers this a
material change from what the FasTracks voters thought they were getting. He
encouraged the Board to consider other options including going back to the voters
for more money.
Steve Albers expressed concern over the proposed J route change. He indicated
the ridership had doubled and feels this is a good indicator for continued
productivity and growth. He referenced a letter from Kathy Ramos to Director Tayer
on this issue.
Matt MacCallison, City of Aurora Transportation Advisory Committee, referenced a
resolution passed on August 28, 2006 requesting that RTD incorporate specific
elements in the East Corridor preferred alternative, including the adoption of EMU
technology. A copy of this resolution can be found in the Board meeting minute
notebook located in the Board office.

Angie Malpiede, Co-chair of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee, read the
letter from the Committee encouraging the Board to move ahead with the revised
application to Penta P and to respect the current environmental and public input
process regarding computer rail technology.
Alice Orth who lives in the Swansea neighborhood expressed preference for EMU
as a cleaner and faster technology over the DMU. She would like RTD to respect
the quality of life for that area.
Mason Thrall representing Hooves, Wheels and Rails, shared information and
passed out a handout on an upcoming artistic exhibition July 13, 2007 with a
focus on sustainable transit in Colorado.
L.W. Morrow indicated he was coming from a private industry perspective and
encouraged RTD to get some good lawyers to resend the California law that
restricts light rail from sharing the same tracks with the railroad. He feels LRT still
provides a more economical alternative than DMU. He is also looking for support
on his hydrogen fuel cell project.
Lorraine Anderson, Arvada City Council member, strongly encouraged the Board not
to fall into making a premature decision but to follow the Penta P process and the
EIS process to identify the technology.
Jennifer Powers expressed her thanks on behalf of the riders of the CC route for
the decision to not eliminate but to provide 2 round trips for the community.

Bob Wilson, VP of the Colorado Rail Association, provided his support to the free
artistic exhibition that was promoted by Mason Thrall.
Rick McNeal spoke on the EMU issue and suggested that Shaker Heights, Ohio has
one of the best examples of EMU and light rail sharing the same tracks.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Planning & Development Committee
Director Ruchman reported on the Planning and Development Committee meeting
held 6/11/07. Several items for voting were passed from this committee to the
Board.
If further information is needed on the Planning and Development
Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Legislative Committee
There was no Legislative meeting or report.
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Director Tayer presented the report on behalf of Director Chacon. If further
information is needed on the FasTracks Monitoring Committee, please refer to the
Committee minutes.
DBE Committee (Ad Hoc)
Director McMullen presented the report on behalf of Director Chacon. If further
information is needed on the DBE Committee, please refer to the Committee
minutes.
Contracted Operational Services Committee
Director Yamrick reported on the Contracted Operational Services Committee
meeting held 6/13/07. If further information is needed on the Contracted
Operational Services Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
Director McMullen reported on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing
Committee meeting held 6/13/07. If further information is needed on the
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee, please refer to the Committee
minutes.
Financial Administration Committee
Director Tayer presented the report on behalf of Director Kemp. If information is
needed on the Financial Administration Committee, please refer to the Committee
minutes.
Ad Hoc Reports:
Audit Committee
The Audit Sub-Committee did not meet in June so no report was provided.

Technology Committee
Director Quinlan reported on the progress made by the Committee on web
conferencing. For more information on the Technology Committee, please refer to
the Committee minutes of this meeting.
CDOT Committee
No report was provided.
E-470 Committee
No report was provided.
DRCOG Committee
Director Elfenbein reported from the meeting of 6/12/07. DRCOG did an annual
report update to 2035.
ACED Committee
No report was provided.
Northwest Parkway
No report was provided.
Pension Committee
Director Pulliam indicated in a few months the Committee will be providing
information to the Board.
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority
Director Christopher reported the minutes from the June 1 meeting at the Larimer
Courthouse. RMRA currently have 16 confirmed members. They are proceeding
with the feasibility study. The next meeting will be hosted by RTD on July 6,
2007.
Chair Report
Chair Martinez reported that the Board is continuing in their information gathering
efforts from the May 19 th retreat. Several Board members attended the Rail
conference in Toronto and rode the DMU. Board members have been engaged in
various activities to acquire a better understanding of DMU/EMU including a trip he
took on the DMU tri-level Roadrunner in Albuquerque (push-pull locomotive).
Directors Christopher and Elfenbein took a fact finding trip to Florida to see the
DMU dd, FTA compliant vehicle. The vehicle was clean, quiet and efficient. Please
refer to the notes on the Florida fact finding trip that was included in the minutes
from the Executive Committee meeting 6/12/07. Board members continue to meet
with stakeholders on DMU/EMU technology.
VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF May 15, 2007
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the May 15,
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor
(Brohl, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and
Yamrick) and 0 against. Director Busck abstained since
he was absent from the previous meeting. Directors
Kemp and Chacon were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. TRB Meeting-Partner Possibilities with Toronto
Cal Marsella participated in the TRB meeting where they discussed a number of
items including ADA accessibility, projection of ridership and rail technologies.
In general, there is a perception of DMU that is pervasive and difficult to change
or educate the public. There is a possibility to partner with Toronto in the
pursuit of dual technology.
2. Visit from Birmingham Chamber of Commerce
Representatives from the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce met with Cal
where he shared the FasTracks success plan. They have requested additional
follow-up information on FasTracks, performance plan, and how RTD has
integrated the old Union Station into our planning process. Birmingham had
elected to tear down their old train station.
3. Church Ranch park-n-Ride Opening-Signage
The Church Ranch park-n-Ride opening was very successful.
Director
Christopher represented the Board. A request from the Mayor for signage was
processed quickly and efficiently.
4. Continuing Work on Rail Liability Issues
Cal is continuing to work through APTA on rail indemnity program. Marla Lien
is taking the lead in working through some of these issues.
5. Your Show on Sunday
Cal Marsella was a guest on the “Your Show” last Sunday which aired June
17th.
He has received positive feedback from this show.
6. Other Matters
Director Brohl inquired on locations where the Transit Watch hotline is posted.
She wanted to know where was the number publicized, major facilities and if it
is posted internally in buses and rail. AGM David Genova indicated that it is
posted in major sites and on buses and rails but he would confirm all locations.
Director Ruchman cited the United Kingdom experience with PPP and asked if

there was any information from their experience to help educate on PPP. Cal
Marsella indicated there was but also shared they follow a different model than
the one being looked at here. Cal Marsella indicated he would get back with
Director Ruchman on information from the TRB.
Director Elfenbein petitioned the media to help get the word out about what
DMUs really are. Director Elfenbein stated there is a difference between the old
DMU and the new DMU. This is not our father’s diesel. The public needs to
understand they are not talking the old Diesel that created pollution or caused
vibration.
Cal Marsella indicated DMU continues to be a perception issue. Cal is meeting
with Cummings who makes hybrids to see what we can do to get more
information out. Director Quinlan noted the Europeans have made wonderful
progress with DMUs and Director Daly indicated from his experience of riding a
DMU in Toronto that he found it relatively smoke free and clean.
Director Christopher inquired on the current dialog with Park Meadows. Cal
Marsella indicated we are proceeding with the design and deferred to Director
Kinton for his input on their meeting with Park Meadows. Director Kinton
indicated Park Meadows are open and willing to work on the issue including
looking at the possibility of building restaurants along the walk to take
advantage of the stations. When asked if this will come back to the Board, Cal
Marsella indicated not likely.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Director Yamrick asked for enlightenment on the call center contract from AGM
Bruce Abel. Bruce Abel responded they had looked at the cost to perform the work
in-house versus contracting out and determined the in-house cost would be
approximately $14.8M over five years compared to the contracted cost of $9.5M.
Cal Marsella stated they had made a strategic decision to control the central
functions of access-n-ride cost. In exchange the contractor has provided high
quality service.
MOTION:

Director Elfenbein moved that the Board of
Directors adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Quinlan,
Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0
against. Director Kemp was absent and Director
Chacon had left the meeting early.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED

unanimously.
A.

Award of access-a-Ride Call Center Contract
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
enter into contract with First Transit for the operations of the access-a-Ride
Call Center for a five-year period at an amount not-to-exceed
$9,494,088.00.
Performance under this contract shall commence
November 3, 2007.

B.

Amendment of Special Transit ADA Paratransit Services contract (12-DO113) for the provision of “South Thornton/Northglenn call-n-Ride” Demand
Response Services
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to
amend the existing ADA Paratransit services contract with Special Transit
(12-DO-113) for the provision of the “South Thornton/Northglenn call-nRide” services. This contract amendment will be for the duration of the
existing contract. The cost shall not exceed $68,910. This cost includes an
estimate for fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense. The
service is scheduled to begin August 19, 2007 and run through the end of
the current ADA Paratransit Services contract, December 31, 2007.

C.

Paratransit Service Contract Extensions
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize amendments to the contracts with all ADA
service providers to extend these contracts for approximately 60 days in
order to provide access-a-Ride services through December 31 st, 2007
instead of the original end dates of November 1, 2007. These contracts
include Special Transit (12-DO-113), Laidlaw Transit Services (12-DO-114),
Global Transportation (12-DO-115), CUSA (12-DO-104) and MV
Transportation (12-DO-116). The amendments will be for a combined total
of $4 million dollars which includes fuel costs.
In addition, it is
recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize amendments to the contracts with Special
Transit (12-DO-113) and Laidlaw Transit Services (12-DO-114), for a
combined total of $653,393 dollars which includes fuel costs in order to
extend these contracts to provide call-n-Ride services through December
31st, 2007 instead of the original end dates on November 1, 2007.

D.

West Corridor Construction Manager General Contractor, Contract
Amendment for Consultation, Civil and Systems
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award contract amendments to The Denver Transit
Construction Group (DTCG), the Construction Manager General Contractor
(CMGC) for the West Corridor, in the amount of $ 182,000 for the

extension of services under Task Order 1, Consultation, Civil and Systems of
their contract 16FFW01. The services under this extension include but are
not limited to; Development of a Best Value Request for Proposals for
completion of systems design that includes, procurement of system
elements and installation of systems elements, analysis of proposals and
advise RTD on best direction for systems procurement and installation;
refinement of civil, bridge and tunnel designs in conjunction the DEA design
team with regard to the impacts of the VE items. Funding for this
amendment is available in the FasTracks budget for the West Corridor.
E.

On-Call Engineering & Design Services Contract, July 2007 through July
2012
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract to the most qualified
proposer, Huitt-Zollars, Inc, in the estimated not-to-exceed amount of
$5,000,000 for the On-Call Engineering & Design Services Contract. It will
have a five-year duration and be administered on an as-needed, work order
basis. It is based on the 2007-2012 projected TDP and currently budgeted
projects.

F.

FTA Penta P Resolution No.__ Series of 2007
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the re-submission of an application to the
Federal Transit Administration’s Penta P program for the Gold Line and East
Corridor and the selection of a preferred alternative of “commuter rail” for
the East Corridor.

G.

Approval of Morgan Stanley to provide Investment Banking and Swap
Counterparty Services to the RTD
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the addition of Morgan Stanley (in the capabilities of
co-manager and swap counterparty) to the list of firms qualified to provide
investment banking services and swap counterparty services to the Regional
Transportation District.
There is no specific task associated with this authorization.

H.

Consulting Services – Network Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract extension for option year 2 for non-personal
Consulting Services-Systems Support for the amount of $249,984 with an
effective date of September 1, 2007. This vendor, Network Technology
Corporation, was selected through the competitive bid process in 2006.

I.

Oracle Database Administrator

It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract in the amount of $160,000 for Personal
Services of an IT Oracle Database Administrator (DBA)(17DJ001). The
contract is to be awarded to DatamanUSA following a competitive review of
four submitted proposals. The contract runs for a period of one year with
two additional year options. This has been determined to be a personal
service contract by Legal Counsel.
DatamanUSA is a 100% Disadvantage/Small Business Enterprise Certified
Firm.
J.

Contract for Enterprise Content Management (ECM) System
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to EMC
Corporation to supply an Enterprise Content Management (ECM) system.
The total amount of the contract will be $1,691,586, allocated as follows:
Software Procurement
Implementation Services
Training
Software Maintenance – 2007
Total Contract

$875,283
$650,805
$ 80,625
$ 84,873
$1,691,586

This system will replace the current out-dated records management system
(Laserfiche) for Planning and Development/FasTracks; automate the
procurement function and provide e-mail capture and archival for RTD.
Documentum has been selected as the vendor of choice through a
competitive bid process.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of
$491,586 from FasTracks expense budget funding to FasTracks capital
software acquisition to fully fund the software procurement, implementation,
and annual maintenance items in the contract through the end of 2007. The
2007 Adopted Budget includes a total of $1,200,000 for the ECM project,
split between the base system capital budget, $900,000, and the FasTracks
capital budget of $300,000. The requested budget transfer will fund the
balance of the software procurement, implementation, and 2007 annual
maintenance items in the contract within the 2007 Adopted Budget.
Funding for the annual maintenance payments for 2008-2010 of
$169,746/year, will be provided in the Information Technology Division
expense budget on an annual basis.

K.

Rocky Mountain Rail Authority Agreement
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Regional
Transportation District commit to contributing $25,000 in 2007 and

$25,000 in 2008, subject to appropriations, to the Rocky Mountain Rail
Authority (RMRA) for the purpose of funding the feasibility study to
ascertain the viability of passenger commuter rail along the Front Range and
the I-70 West Corridor. The General Manager will be authorized to sign an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with RMRA committing expenditure of
the 2007 and 2008 funds, subject to appropriations. These funds will be
used for development of a feasibility study as detailed in the scope of work
approved by the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT).

IX.

L.

Amendment of Option Year Two for Maintenance and Shelter Cleaning
services: Front Range Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the Second
Option Year of Performance with Front Range Services (FRS) for the
provision of shelter, park-n-Ride, and parking structure maintenance and
cleaning services under Contract No. 25DM002 in the amount of $280,000
for a total cumulative authorization of $692,947.60 with the provision that
the existing contract be amended to incorporate the provisions of the
Worker Supportive Policy and the funding authorization include whatever
additional funds are needed to implement the Policy. In the event that FRS
declines to amend the contract to include the Worker Supportive Policy, the
General Manager is directed to competitively select an alternate service
provider whose services shall commence at the conclusion of the Second
Year Option in July of 2008, which solicitation shall include provision of the
Worker Supportive Policy.

M.

Amendment of Option Year Two for Maintenance and Shelter Cleaning
services: Grounds Service Company
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute the Second
Option Year of Performance with Grounds Service Company (GSCo) for the
provision of maintenance and shelter, park-n-Ride, and parking structure
cleaning services under Contract No. 25DM003 in the amount of $290,000.
This amendment will increase the authorization for existing Contract No.
25DM003 by $290,000 for a total authorization of $785,510.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Chair Martinez moved item S, Approval of August 2007 Service Changes, to the
first one to vote on under recommended action due to the number of public
participants interested in the vote on this issue.
S.

Approval of August 2007 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the August 19, 2007 Service Change package as
revised and summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings

of approximately $131,100, and, further, to authorize the General Manager
to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion for approval of
August 2007 Service Changes

Director Brohl seconded the motion.
AMENDMENT:

Director Quinlan made the motion to amend the
August 2007 Service Changes to include two
routes (morning and afternoon each) into
Franktown for 1 run board.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director McMullen inquired why had staff made
their recommendation. Bill Porter explained RTD
has an established park-n-ride in the Pinery but
would need to lease space in Franktown and the
turnaround would take them out of the district.
He also noted most people drive to Franktown
from out of the district and this recommendation
would add approximately $36K to the cost.

VOTE ON
THE AMENDMENT: An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12
votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Tayer and Yamrick) and 1 against
(Ruchman). Director Kemp was absent and
Director Chacon had left early.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.
AMENDMENT:

Director Tayer made a motion to table the
decision to eliminate routes J and Bolt until a
later date when the Boulder city representatives
had additional time to sort out their questions
and to review what additional resources may be
available to buy up services.
Director Yamrick seconded

the

motion.
DISCUSSION:

This motion generated tremendous discussion

from Cal Marsella and the RTD staff who
indicated this delay would be paramount to not
putting it into the run board until January of
2008. They further elaborated on the
requirement to get the union’s approval and not
violate union run board requirements including
the time for bidding on the runs.
Several
Directors wanted to understand the full impact
of this delay and what would be the financial
impact. The staff estimated this could have a
$208K annual impact. Cal Marsella offered an
alternative which was initially rejected by
Director Tayer.
A friendly amendment by Director Christopher to
postpone the decision to July 10 th was also
rejected.
Director McMullen commended that we must
trust the process and the work done by RTD
staff to make this recommendation.
After extensive discussion, the following
amendment was accepted by Director Tayer.
SECONDARY
AMENDMENT:

Director Tayer amended his amendment to allow
the motion to approve the August 2007 service
changes with the amendment added by Director
Quinlan to retain two round trips on the P route
to Franktown for 1 run board proceed subject to
the J and Bolt routes added to the extra board
based upon negotiations with the respective
Boulder parties involved (County of Boulder,
Cities of Boulder and Longmont).
Director Yamrick accepted this motion.

VOTE ON
THE SECONDARY
AMENDMENT:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0
against. Director Kemp was absent and Director
Chacon had left early.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED

Unanimously.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE PRIMARY
MOTION:

Director Yamrick asked if the proposed changes
to the CC route would affect ADA service as
well. The staff replied that if the service was
removed, there would be no ADA requirement.
Director Yamrick summarized that indeed this
would remove ADA service for CC.
Director Kinton asked if there were other options
for the ADA dependent in Coal Creek. The staff
replied that Jefferson County would need to
provide the services.
Director Pulliam requested that staff look to see
what ADA services would be available for the
residents in Coal Creek.

A vote was taken on the primary motion to
approve the August 2007 service change with
the modifications to add 2 daily roundtrips for
the P to extend to Franktown for 1 run board
and to add the J and Bolt routes to the extra
board based on the negotiations with the
respective Boulder parties.
An electronic roll vote was taken with 10 in
favor (Busck, Daly, Elfenbein, Ruchman,
Quinlan, Martinez, Christopher, Brohl, Tayer, and
Pulliam), and 2 against (Directors Kinton and
Yamrick). No vote was recorded for Director
McMullen. Directors Kemp and Chacon were not
present.

N.

RTD Board Commitment to FasTracks, Resolution No.__ Series of 2007
MOTION:
Director McMullen made the motion to approve
the resolution from the Board providing their
support to FasTracks
Director Busck seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11
votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Martinez, McMullen, Quinlan, Pulliam,
Ruchman, and Tayer) and 2 against (Kinton and
Yamrick).
Director Kemp was absent and

Director Chacon had left the meeting early.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.
O.

Contract Extension with Lamar for Sale of On-Vehicle Advertising
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute a contract extension with Lamar Advertising Company for the sale
of on-vehicle advertising. The extension is for a two year period beginning
January 1, 2008 and provides a minimum annual guarantee of $2.8 million
and 70 percent of net sales above $4.0 million.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve
the contract extension with Lamar for sale of onvehicle advertising.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11
votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Ruchman, and Tayer) and 2 against (Quinlan and
Yamrick).
Director Kemp was absent and
Director Chacon had left the meeting early.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

P.

Approval of General Manager Contract
It is recommended by the GM Evaluation Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the new General Manager contract dated July 1, 2007
which supersedes the employment agreement dated December 15, 2004
and becomes effective July 1, 2007 through December 31, 2010 with
automatic renewal for two additional one-year terms unless terminated in
writing or by mutual agreement from both parties.
MOTION:

Director Brohl thanked everyone for their efforts
and made the motion to approve the General
Manager’s contract through 2010 with an
automatic renewal for two additional terms.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Quinlan,
Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0
against. Director Kemp was absent and Director

Chacon had left the meeting early.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.
Q.

West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals and Contract Amendment for the
Design and Costing of Approved or Agreed-Upon Items
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award contract amendments to the David Evans
and Associates (DEA) for $850,000 for these accepted Value Engineering
items; Sheridan Boulevard Light Rail Bridge/Overpass, Auraria Station
Realignment, and Drainage Redesign west of Decatur. It is also
recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board defers action until the July Board meeting on the remaining VE
proposals, Single Track Section from Denver Federal Center to Jefferson
County, single track tunnel at I-70, Drainage from east of Decatur to the
South Platte River, and the relocation of the Federal/Decatur Station and
directs staff to continue to work to resolution of the proposals with the
impacted jurisdictions; Jefferson County, the City and County of Denver and
the Urban Drainage and Flood Control District; to the maximum extent
possible that benefits the project. Funding for this amendment is available in
the FasTracks budget for the West Corridor.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion to approve
the West Corridor Engineering Proposals and
Contract Amendment for the design and costing
of approved or agreed-upon terms
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0
against. Director Kemp was absent and Director
Chacon had left the meeting early.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.

R.

Award of Contract – Public-Private Partnerships and Alternative Financing
Advisor
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents

necessary to award a contract with Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan as
(joint) Public-Private Partnerships and Alternative Financing Advisor to assist
the RTD in evaluating the feasibility and application of public-private
partnerships, to revise the District’s FasTracks financial model to reflect
alternative financing and delivery approaches and to assist in the preparation
of procurement documents related to those certain components of the
FasTracks program which are determined to be attractive public-private
partnership candidates.
It is further recommended that the Finance and Administration Committee
recommend to the full Board a transfer of $200,000 from the FasTracks
program management capital budget to the FasTracks program management
capital budget to the FasTracks expense budget to cover the monthly
retainer fees for the remainder of 2007.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
award of a contract for public-private
partnerships and alternative financing advisor to
Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan.
Director Quinlan seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Quinlan,
Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0
against. Director Kemp was absent and Director
Chacon had left the meeting early.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

ADJOURN
Seeing there was no unfinished or new business, the meeting adjourned at 8:30
p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, June 19, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
Neill Quinlan, Second Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Jeff Becker
Bob Brown
Dennis Cole
Ron Dodsworth
David Genova
Cheryl Holmes
Lloyd Mack
Geoff Noble
Liz Rao
Daria Serna
Joe Smith
John Tarbert
Mike Turner

District B
District J
District G
District D
District K
District C
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Bruce Abel
Bill Bell
Rick Clarke
John Dawson
Carol Duecker
Cory Granrud
Bob Lewis
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Errol Stevens
Liz Telford
Bill Van Meter

OTHERS PRESENT –
Bob Wilson
Victoria Oliver
Ben Doerfler – Spectrum A/V
Zane Johnson
Ed Colby – Washington Group
Randy Pye – Colorado Tomorrow Alliance

Susan Altes
Gideon Berger
Susan Cohen
Kevin Diviness
Phil Eberl
Carl Hall
Marla Lien
Tony McCaulay
Bill Porter
Teresa Sedmak
Bill Sirois
Stan Szabelak
Pauletta Tonilas
Phil Washington

Pat Bollig
Jack McCroskey
Steve Bell – EMC
Sharon Hendricks – Express Personnel
Phuonglan Nguyen – FRESC
Cindy Christensen – CTA
Gail Brinly
Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News
Jeff Leib – Denver Post
Dairl Helmer
William Gross
J.C. Arrowood – STV
Bob Manwaring – City of Arvada
Joel Noble
L.W. Morrow – EFC
Roger Sherman – CRL Associates
J. Posey
Brandi McCarty
Andrew Skeels
Eric Biga – Veolia
Bruce Behncke – Veolia
Joe Racosky – URS
Lorraine Anderson – City of Arvada
Don Ulrich – CH2MHill
Shelley Cook
Stan Williams – WMS
Dan Muse – Pendleton, Freidberg
Penfield Tate
Mary Woodard – MW & Associates
Jen Powers
Phil Greenwald – City of Longmont
Jake Jakubowski
Elise Jones – Colorado Environmental Coalition
Steve Roberts – Systra Consulting
Steve Albers
Keith Howard – Sunnyside United Neighbors
Marilee Utter – Citiventure
Mac Callison – City of Aurora
Angie Malpiede – FasTracks Citizens Advisory Council
Ken Smith – CCA
Tom Rousakis – Goldman Sachs
Bob Walsh – J.P. Morgan
Tim Romer – Goldman Sachs
Aaryn Richardson – EIS Solutions
Alice Orth
Craig Kocian – City of Arvada
Rick McNeal

Randy Ritchey – Huitt – Zollars, Inc.
Mason Thrall – Hoaves Wheels & Rails
A. Ellwood Ervin Jr. – NRHS
Ebony Griffin – Urban League of Metropolitan Denver, Inc.
Michael Ellsberry – Huitt-Zollars, Inc.
Bob Doherty – J.P. Morgan
Ted Barker – Lea & Elliott, Inc.
David Rothenburger

