1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 19, 2016 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Pro Tem Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:21 PM
4:59 PM
5:26 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Absent
Present
Present
Present

5:01 PM
5:28 PM
5:30 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:30 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Absent
Absent

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:12 PM

Barbara McManus called role. There were twelve (12) members present at roll call.
Chair Tobiassen and Directors Deadwyler and Solano were absent.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Gina Callahan, Heather
Copp, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry
Emmons, David Genova, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton,
Amy Homyak, Andre Johnson, Steve Johnson, Sandra Kerr, Erin
Klaas, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Steve Martingano,
Brian Matthews, Barbara McManus, Julia Marvin, John Perry, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Jerry Torres, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Jill Marcy, Shane Tempel, Joe Triplett, Bob Wilson

Retiree Awards
Special Recognition – TSA Gold Standard Award 2015
Chair Pro Tem Hoy announced there were no retirees this evening but there was a special
recognition for RTD’s Transit Police and Security Team who received the TSA Gold
Standard Award for the second consecutive year. He stated this is a very high accolated
for RTD. He shared that he recently was meeting with a member of the Colorado Highway
Patrol who said that RTD’ Security is top notch.
General Manager Genova explained that the TSA Gold Standard Award is given to
organizations demonstrating the highest standard of excellence in security. He pointed out
this is the second consecutive award that RTD has received, which is a great statement
for the efforts of the team lead by Chief Tarbert.
General manager Genova pointed out that the team has been doing a great deal of
preparation for the University of Colorado A-Line Opening. The team put together an
extensive manual that has been circulated throughout our various law enforcement
partners. He looks forward to seeing them in action on Friday and Saturday.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Pro Tem Hoy stated public participation is open to anyone that wants to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.
 Doug Gragg, Denver, congratulated everyone on the upcoming University of
Colorado A-Line opening. He has been looking forward to this line for years and
will have a wonderful time riding up and down the system. He shared that last
week he observed the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting at
which the CU Leeds School of Business (Leeds) gave an economics presentation.
He expressed concern that Leeds kept saying there was low inflation. He stated
RTD cannot have Leeds come before this agency and say that inflation is low when
RTD raised fares at the first of the year. If inflation is low then RTD needs to lower
prices, not raise them.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Lasater
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Chair Tobiassen
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Chair Tobiassen

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Francone indicated the GM Oversight and Performance Management
Committee met for the first time this year to begin discussing the General Manager’s Goals
for 2017. The Committee has a timeline in place and will be anxiously awaiting General
Manager Genova’s report regarding the Task Goals. She said the Committee will meet
again on May 24, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. at the Blake Street offices.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 29, 2016
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of March 29, 2016.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Walker) and 0 opposed.
Chair Tobiassen and Directors Deadwyler and Solano
were absent.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano, Tom Tobiassen

Chair Pro Tem Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Pro Tem Hoy provided the following report:
Attended Events
 Telephone Town Halls were completed on April 13th. He thanked everyone who
participated in making these successful. These are a great outreach to the
community.
 March 31 – Commerce City & 72nd Station Ribbon Cutting Event at which
Director Solano spoke
Ongoing and Upcoming Events
 April 26 – The next Board Budget Workshop will be held prior to the Study
Session. He thanked Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant
General Manager of Finance and Administration, and her team for making this
possible. He hopes the Directors will make an effort to attend.
 April 21 – University of Colorado A-Line IP Reception at the Westin Hotel DIA
(Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Sisk, Solano, Walker)
 April 22 and 23 – University of Colorado A-Line Opening Day Festivities
including ribbon cuttings, station parties, and free rides along the line
 April 30 to May 3 – APTA Transit Board Member and Board Support Seminar in
San Antonio, TX (Anderson, Hoy, Walker)
 May 10 – State of Downtown Denver at the Hyatt Regency – Colorado
Convention Center (Bagley, Tobiassen)
 May 11 – 2016 State of the City: Envisioning the Future with Mayor Steve
Hogan at the Hyatt Regency Aurora (Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Tobiassen)
 May 13 – Armed Forces Recognition Luncheon at the Doubletree Hotel (Folska,
Tobiassen)

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:
 Participated in Build American Transportation Investment Center Institute DUS
Webinar on Wednesday, March 30









Spoke at the 72nd Avenue Station Event on Thursday, March 31
Attended the Downtown Denver Partnership Annual Awards Dinner on Thursday,
April 7
Met with Beth Burgert and Jim Doyle of Panasonic on Friday, April 8 regarding
naming rights opportunities
Attended the North Metro Executive Partnering Meeting on Monday, April 11
Attended monthly 16th Street Mall Partners Meeting on Monday, April 18
Participated in a variety of media interviews including Politicos, Denver Post and
Railway Gazette in anticipation of the University of Colorado A-Line Opening
Will be speaking at several meetings regarding the University of Colorado A-Line
opening including Visit Denver’s Quarterly Board Meeting and the Denver Metro
Chamber Economic Development Council

General Manager Genova shared that he was invited to present at the White House on
Thursday, April 21, regarding Public Private Partnerships. He said for obvious reasons he
could not attend but Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Finance and Administration, would be attending in his place. He knows she will
represent the Agency well.
General Manager Genova acknowledged both Denver Transit Partners and RTD staff who
have gone to tremendous efforts to make sure the University of Colorado A-Line is
opening on schedule and within budget.
Director Menten asked for further information on the 16th Street Mall Partners as this
seems like a new organization. She wondered who made up this partnership and if there
had been any changes since the Board voted to remove the Mall Shuttle for the Meet in
the Street Events. General Manager Genova explained it was just the name the City and
County Denver (Denver) is using to describe the working group for the Meet in the Street
Events. It is comprised of RTD, the Downtown Denver Partnership and Denver. He stated
there have been no changes to the plan that was previously approved. The working group
meets to discuss logistics, objectives, tools to gather data, etc.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Pro Tem Hoy asked for a motion to approve items A through C on the unanimous
consent agenda.

Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda.

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Walker) and 0 opposed.
Chair Tobiassen and Directors Deadwyler and Solano
were absent.

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano, Tom Tobiassen

Chair Pro Tem Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Longmont Free Fare Buy Up

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that RTD approve a
new contract with Boulder County to allow the County to continue to buy up fares on all
four of the Longmont local fixed route services, herein referenced as “the 300 series.”
Specifically the 300 series are routes 323, 324, 326 and 327 and complementary Accessa-Ride services for a period of an additional 18 months.
B.

Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (the
“Agreement”).
C.

TIFIA Loan Borrower Authorized Representative Certificate

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act
(TIFIA) Borrower Authorized Representative Certificate (the “Certificate”).

XII.

Recommended Action
D.

Adoption of 2017 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the attached 2017 Performance Measures for mission statement
goals 1-7. There are 23 specific performance measures in total, and it is proposed that
an additional goal be added (goal 3.2) for a total of 24.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the 2017
Performance Measures.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Anderson stated she would be voting no for
the simple reason that she does not know where the
additional $2 million needed to meet the on-time
performance goal will come from. RTD has a finite
amount of financial resources and she cannot vote yes
until she knows how staff will balance the budget.
Director Menten pointed out that based on the
discussion during the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee there is nothing requiring an additional $2
million be spent. She does not want to lower RTD’s
standards, especially when the Board just approved
spending $26 million on the Civic Center renovations.
She wants to see on-time performance be a priority but
that does not mean the Board has approved spending
an additional $2 million.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with 9 in favor (Bagley, Folska,
Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Walker)
and 3 opposed (Anderson, Archuleta, Lasater). Chair
Tobiassen and Directors Deadwyler and Solano were
absent.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [9 TO 3]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Walker
Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Gary Lasater
Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano, Tom Tobiassen

Chair Pro Tem Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
There was no old business.

XV.

New Business
Director Bagley complimented Nate Currey, Senior Manager of Public Relations and Public
Information, Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, and the many other staff members involved
for all their efforts during the telephone town halls that Directors just finished. He thought
staff did a fantastic job.
Director Sisk echoed the comments of Director Bagley. He wanted to recognize Nate
Currey and Karen Benker, Citizens for Finishing FasTracks, who were on Colorado Public
Radio last week to discuss FasTracks. He thought it was a very enlightened discussion
that was handled well by all parties. He said Colorado Public Radio did a really good job
gathering background information.
Director Sisk shared that he recently had the honor of traveling to Washington, D.C. with
the US 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition (MCC). He stated it was a great trip and
people in D.C. are very excited about the University of Colorado A-Line. He thanked Bill
Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, for attending with him and doing the
heavy lifting. He also thanked Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, for
providing background information so RTD was speaking together with the MCC. He thinks
it assists RTD immeasurably when we can present a united front to the outside with our
community partners.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Pro Tem Hoy adjourned the meeting at 5:59 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Acting Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

