1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, August 17, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 889 7375 4499#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#

Operations and Customer Service Committee
A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
C. Discussion Items

• Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) Report
• Transit Asset Management
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - September 14, 2021
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations

Committee Meeting Date:
August 17, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
August 17, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt responses to the recommendations outlined in the “RTD
Accountability Committee Final Report.”
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
In collaboration with the Board of Directors, the Accountability Committee (Committee) was created in
July 2020 by Governor Jared Polis along with Representative Matt Gray and Senator Faith Winter, then
chairs of the Colorado General Assembly’s standing committees responsible for oversight of
transportation matters.
The purpose of the Committee was to provide an independent and objective analysis of RTD's
operations and to develop a set of recommendations for improvement to the operations and statutes
related to RTD. The Committee, comprised of legislative and gubernatorial appointees, two Ex-Officio
members from the RTD Board of Directors and supported by staff assistance from the Denver Regional
Council of Governments, established three subcommittees to facilitate discussions around three main
focal points: governance, finance, and operations.
The Committee held its first meeting on August 10, 2020 and met on a regular basis through its final
meeting on July 12, 2021. RTD Board members and staff attended and participated in the committee’s
meetings, as did General Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson following her appointment and installation
in November 2020.
RTD received the committee’s final report on July 20, 2021, establishing September 3, 2021 as the
date by which RTD must respond to the recommendations contained in the report.
DISCUSSION
The Committee’s recommendations were divided into nine general subject matter areas, with related
individual recommendations grouped within the following headings:
• Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild Ridership and Improve Operations
• Improve Operator Retention
• Develop Subregional Service Councils
• Explore Board Structure Modifications Subject to Additional Study and Input
• Explore FasTracks Options
• Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
• Improve Fixed-Route and Paratransit Service Provision
• Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

•

Simplify Fares and Pass Program

RTD staff has addressed each of the recommendations in the response, noting whether the agency
agrees, partially agrees, or disagrees with each of the 43 individual recommendations posed by the
Committee.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
While implementation of the Committee’s recommendations will create budgetary impacts, there is no
direct fiscal impact associated with the adoption of this recommended action.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report

•

Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT

•

Director Comments

•

08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee Recommendations

(PDF)
(PDF)

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
John McKay, Executive Business Partner
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

Final Report

RTD Accountability Committee

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

RTD
Accountability
Committee
1
1.B.1.a

Final Report

July 2021

Packet Pg. 5

2
2

1.B.1.a

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final
Final Report
Report

Membership
Co-Chairs
Elise Jones (co-chair) - Local Government served by RTD
Crystal Murillo (co-chair) - Local Government served by RTD

Members
Dan Blankenship – Multimodal Expertise
Rutt Bridges – Financial Planning Expertise
Chris Frampton – Economic Development Expertise
Jackie Millet – Local Government served by RTD
Julie Duran Mullica – Local Government served by RTD
Krystin Trustman –Issues Facing Transit Riders with Disabilities Expertise
Rebecca White – Urban Planning Expertise
Deyanira Zavala – Transportation Equity Expertise

Ex-officio Members
Lynn Guissinger (ex officio) – RTD Board Director
Troy Whitmore (ex officio) – RTD Board Director

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 6

Final Report

3

1.B.1.a

Executive Summary ...................................................................................................................................... 5

Part 1: Overview and Recommendations
Overview ....................................................................................................................................................... 6
Responsibilities ......................................................................................................................................... 6
Accomplishments ...................................................................................................................................... 9
Financial Review ......................................................................................................................................... 10
Recommendations: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild Ridership & Improve
Operations ........................................................................................................................................... 11
Recommendations: Improve Operator Retention ............................................................................... 13
Governance and Executive Leadership ...................................................................................................... 13
Recommendations: Develop Subregional Service Councils ............................................................... 14
Recommendations: Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to Additional Study and Input .. 15
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability .................................................................................. 16
Recommendations: Explore FasTracks Options ................................................................................. 17
Recommendations: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency.................................................... 18
Improve Service to All Riders ...................................................................................................................... 21
Recommendations: Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision ..................................... 22
Recommendations: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services .......................................... 23
Recommendations: Simplify Fares and Pass Programs .................................................................... 25

Part 2: Equity Assessments
Overview ..................................................................................................................................................... 28
Mission Statement ................................................................................................................................... 28
Operationalizing Equity in the Deliberation of the Committee and Subcommittees ............................... 28
Equity Assessment: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds Recommendations .............................. 30
Equity Assessment: Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision and Operator Retention
Recommendations .............................................................................................................................. 37
Equity Assessment: Subregional Service Council and Board of Directors Recommendations .......... 39

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Table of Contents

Final Report

4

1.B.1.a

Equity Assessment: Partnership Recommendations .......................................................................... 42
Equity Assessment: Streamlining Fares and Passes Recommendations .......................................... 44

Part 3: Appendices
Appendix 1: Public Input Summary ............................................................................................................. 47
Appendix 2: Transportation Funding Proposal Letter ................................................................................. 58
Appendix 3: COVID Relief Funding ............................................................................................................ 61
Appendix 4: RTD Governance Evaluation .................................................................................................. 63
Appendix 5: FasTracks Analysis by the Finance Subcommittee ................................................................ 69
Appendix 6: RTD to Evaluate Potential BRT Benefits ................................................................................ 71
Appendix 7: Performance Reporting ........................................................................................................... 80
Appendix 8: Transit Agency Partnerships with Transportation Network Companies ................................. 85
Appendix 9: FreeLift | Demand Driven First/Last Mile Partnerships ........................................................... 87
Appendix 10: Fare Collection Costs ............................................................................................................ 90

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Equity Assessment: Performance Metrics and Financial Transparency Recommendations ............. 41

5

Final Report

1.B.1.a

The Regional Transportation District (RTD) is a vital part of the Denver region’s multimodal transportation
system connecting people to jobs; schools; shopping; medical care; cultural, sporting, and leisure
activities; and recreation. RTD helps reduce traffic congestion and transportation-related climate
emissions and air pollution – so important to the quality of the environment along the front range – and
provides an equitable mobility alternative for people who cannot afford, are unable, or choose not to drive.
RTD also allows for a degree of independence for so many residents and serves as an important
stimulant for the region’s economic development. Over the past 17 years, RTD has experienced
tremendous growth with the development of its FasTracks program – building 25.1 miles of light rail track
and 53 miles of commuter rail track, the launch of the Flatiron Flyer bus rapid transit service, and the
opening of an intermodal hub at Union Station in downtown Denver. Yet, the region’s transit system must
also increasingly address major trends, such as a rapidly growing population and employment base, new
technology, an evolving economy, changing residential and workplace preferences, and the equity
challenges associated with rapidly changing neighborhoods and historic disparities. RTD is also
experiencing lackluster ridership and financial challenges exacerbated by a heavy debt load and
unsustainable revenue outlook. The COVID-19 pandemic only added to these challenges, resulting in a
60 percent decrease in ridership for RTD.
Understanding the important role RTD plays in the success of the Denver region, in the summer of 2020,
Governor Polis and the transportation committee chairs of the Colorado General Assembly, in
collaboration with the RTD Board created the RTD Accountability Committee (the Committee). The
purpose of the Committee is to provide an independent and objective analysis of RTD's operations and
develop a set of recommendations for improvement to the operations and statutes related to RTD. The
Committee has undertaken an analysis of the Agency, studied many other similar transit agencies and is
pleased to present this RTD Accountability Committee Final Report outlining the nine areas of
recommendations proposed by the Committee:
•

Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds

•

Transparency

to Rebuild Ridership and Improve
Operations
•

Improve Operator Retention

•

Develop Subregional Service Councils

•

Explore Board Structure Modifications
Subject to Additional Study and Input

•

Improve Reporting Metrics and

•

Improve Fixed-Route and Paratransit
Service Provision

•

Leverage Partnerships for Resources
and Services

•

Simplify Fares and Pass Program

Explore FasTracks Options

Understanding the important role transportation plays in providing access to opportunities for all residents within
the region, the Committee sought to apply an equity lens to its recommendations and ensure they did not have a

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Executive Summary

6

Final Report

1.B.1.a

disparate impact on any specific populations within the district. For each recommendation proposed, an Equity
have on residents across the region. This document also contains the results of those assessments.

Overview
In July of 2020, the Governor of Colorado and the Transportation Chairs of the General Assembly, in
collaboration with the Regional Transportation District (RTD, the District or the Agency) Board, chose to create
the RTD Accountability Committee (the Committee), a body fully independent from RTD. The Committee was
charged with providing feedback and a set of recommendations for improvement to RTD’s operations of and
statutes related to RTD. The Committee was appointed on July 15, 2020 and held its first meeting August 10,
2020. The Committee was tasked with issuing a report with recommendations to the Board and staff of RTD, the
Governor, the General Assembly, and the public no later than July 1, 2021. This document contains the
recommendations of the Committee and is respectfully submitted to the Governor, the chairs of the
transportation committees in the State Senate and House of Representatives, and the RTD Board of Directors.
The Committee consisted of eleven members, with five appointed by the Governor and six by the transportation
chairs of the House and Senate. Additionally, the RTD Board chair appointed two ex-officio members from the
RTD Board. Members were appointed for their expertise in local government, economic development, issues
facing transit riders with disabilities, human resources, transportation equity, financial planning and management,
and urban planning (Committee membership and areas of expertise can found on page 2 of this document).
The Committee was hosted and staffed by an independent agency, Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG). Support was provided by RTD and a third-party consultant with expertise in transit authority
operations, North Highland.
The Committee’s role is to provide recommendations for improvement to RTD; it has no authority to compel the
agency to implement them. However, within 45 days of the Committee issuing its final report, RTD is required to
either adopt the recommendations or issue a report stating its reasons for not adopting specific
recommendations. The Committee requests that RTD present its response and implementation timeline at an inperson meeting with Committee members, the Governor or his designee and the State Senate and House
Transportation Committee chairs. Further, the Committee believes that 12 months is an appropriate timeline for
RTD to implement its recommendations, recognizing that some improvements may take longer to complete than
others.

Responsibilities
The scope of the Committee’s work was broad and completely independent of RTD. Throughout the
Committee’s deliberations there were opportunities for the perspectives of RTD’s Board, staff, and the public at

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Assessment was conducted, allowing the Committee to better understand the impact proposed actions could

7

Final Report

1.B.1.a

large to be shared with the Committee. While undertaking a comprehensive review of the District, the work of the

•

Recent financials from the district, including any recent audits and a thorough review of the Agency’s use of
CARES Act stimulus funds.

•

The structure of RTD governance and executive leadership.

•

The District’s short-term and long-term prioritization of resources to maximize the Agency’s limited dollars for
the benefit of taxpayers.

•

How the District can better serve all riders including those with disabilities, how it can better serve transitdependent populations, the District’s plans for how to expand ridership, how the District is addressing
coverage gaps, how the District is prioritizing route planning, and how the District is serving its entire service
area.

•

A determination of the long-range financial stability of the Agency, and how the Agency can achieve stability
and growth while still meeting its core mission.

Ways of working
The Committee established focus areas aligned with its scope of work. Three Subcommittees focused on
Governance, Finance, and Operations were formed to ensure a thorough investigation of specific issues. Table 1
details the focus areas of each Subcommittee. Focus areas were not mutually exclusive and, when appropriate,
were addressed by one or more Subcommittees.

Governance
Subcommittee

Finance
Subcommittee

Operations
Subcommittee

Explore and develop an
alternative governance
structure and deployment of
transit services that follow a
regional/subregional model in
partnership with local
governments.

Review and make recommended
changes to RTD to achieve a
more sustainable financial model,
including review of investment
policies, debt, regional /
subregional funding allocation,
and statutes that limit
opportunities for revenue
generation, cost savings and
increased ridership.

Assess and make
recommendations on how RTD
fares and pass programs can be
improved to increase equity,
ridership, affordability, and ease of
access.

Explore how to enable
partnerships with other transit
agencies and nonprofits to
provide for better service
outside and inside RTD
boundaries.

Review FasTracks spending and
make recommendations on how
to achieve an equitable resolution
of the unfinished FasTracks
corridors.

Make recommendations on how
RTD can enhance service delivery
to transit-reliant, vulnerable
populations through different
models of service delivery and
reflecting changing travel trends
post COVID-19.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Committee was specifically focused, though not limited to, a review of the following:

Assess whether the size and
structure of RTD’s service area
is appropriate relative to its
ability to provide transit service.

Make recommendations on how
to improve financial transparency
to restore public trust and
demonstrate RTD accountability
to voters and policymakers, such
as the development of a public
online dashboard to show how
RTD money is generated and
spent.

Focus on proactive, communitybased transit service planning and
operations. Strengthen and
formalize coordination between
RTD and cities/counties with
development review/approval of
project and design of transit
service for key developments.

Assess whether the RTD Board
would be more effective with a
different size or structure.

Examine partnership opportunities
to enhance mobility services and
allow RTD to focus on delivering
the types of services it can do
most effectively and efficiently.

Undertake an overall
organizational assessment (HR,
work culture, and management
and governance of district and
Board organizational structure).

1.B.1.a

Table 1: Subcommittee Focus Areas

Meeting structure
Meetings of the full Committee were held monthly. Full Committee meetings provided an opportunity for
Subcommittee Chairs to provide status reports. The Full Committee also discussed, reviewed, and voted on any
recommendations or required actions. Voting required a quorum of two-thirds of the Committee, with a majority
vote to pass any motions brought before the Committee.
Subcommittee meetings were held twice a month. During Subcommittee meetings investigatory lines of
questioning were developed, subject matter experts shared their expertise on a given topic, potential solutions
were discussed and vetted, and recommendations drafted to share with the Full Committee for action.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all full Committee and Subcommittee meetings were held virtually. This
increased the accessibility and participation of these meetings through a meeting link made available on the
DRCOG website.

Public outreach
The Committee felt strongly that the public should be engaged at every opportunity. DRCOG developed a RTD
Accountability Committee webpage where all materials related to Committee activities was made available. The
webpage were maintained and updated by DRCOG. Content included the Committee Scope of Work, meeting
packets, and recordings. All meetings were open to the public virtually, with meeting materials distributed two
days prior.
To further engage the public, each meeting of the Full Committee allowed time for public comment. Comments
were responded to when appropriate, and the discourse was documented in the meeting minutes. Additionally,
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

8

Final Report

Final Report

9

1.B.1.a

the Committee provided a public comment period on its draft recommendations, including opportunities for
online survey was open from June 2 through June 15, 2021. In addition to capturing overall sentiment on the
recommendations, the survey allowed for open comment as well. A summary of the survey results and, the
public commentary was documented and is include in Appendix 1 of this report.

Equity Assessments
The Committee agreed that social, financial, and environmental equity should be at the forefront as it considered
and finalized recommendations. As a result, the Equity Assessment Mission Statement was adopted, which
ensures that an equity lens will be applied to the Committee’s recommendations to make certain that benefits are
shared across the RTD service area and that no one group bears a larger burden of environmental or financial
impact, especially communities of concern (including, but not limited to minority, low income, individuals with
disabilities, older adult, and veteran populations). A commitment was made for completing Equity Assessments
with each recommendation brought forward through the Committee. An assessment template was created by
DRCOG staff and approved by the Committee for this purpose. Initial assessments were completed by DRCOG
staff; however, to maintain full independence future Equity Assessments were conducted by Mile High Connects,
with involvement from other equity-focused community groups and leaders. A more thorough description of the
Equity Assessment methodology and resulting analyses can be found in Part 2 of this document.

Accomplishments
The Committee was able to achieve notable accomplishments prior to the submission of this final report. In
January, 2021 the Committee’s Preliminary Report was submitted to the Governor and General Assembly. The
Preliminary Report included specific proposed legislative recommendations adopted by the Committee for
consideration by the General Assembly, which were enacted in the 2021 Legislative Session. The legislative
recommendations were focused on statutory restrictions that, if modified or deleted, would allow RTD greater
flexibility and opportunity to improve finances and ridership. HB-1186 was passed by the legislature and was
formally signed into law by the Governor on May 24.
Throughout its analysis and investigation, the Committee confirmed the importance the RTD system and transit
in general has within the Denver metro region. As such, the Committee successfully collaborated to submit a
letter (Appendix 2) to Senators Winter and Fenberg and Representatives Gray and Garnett, sponsors of the draft
transportation funding proposal. The purpose of this letter was to encourage the legislature to provide more
investment in multimodal transportation options. The Committee received a response from the bill sponsors
indicating that funding would be expanded. Senate Bill 21-260 was ultimately enacted, providing $5 billion over
10 years to Colorado’s transportation system, including $800 million in multimodal funding.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

interested parties to testify during the June 14, 2021, Committee meeting and to complete an online survey. The

Final Report

10

1.B.1.a

Charged with reviewing recent financials from the district, including any recent audits, the Committee conducted
a thorough assessment of the Agency’s use of Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES Act 1) in
partnership with the third-party consultant. Additional Federal funding opportunities were analyzed by the
Committee to determine where opportunity may exist to improve ridership and operations. The Committee also
reviewed and was briefed on a recent Performance Audit issued by the Office of the State Audit. Both topics are
discussed below.

COVID and Other Federal Stimulus Funds
RTD will receive more than $700 million in federal funds in 2020-21 related to recovery from the pandemic and
the related economic recession. The Committee reviewed RTD’s expenditure of the first tranche of this funding,
provided via the federal CARES Act, and made recommendations on how to spend all of this unanticipated
federal funding, with the goal of restoring transit service and attracting former and new transit riders.
RTD received approximately $232 million in federal CARES Act funding in 2020. Through service reductions and
other cost-cutting measures including furlough days for non-represented staff, travel and training reductions, and
deferred asset management projects, RTD was able to retain all employees during 2020 and add approximately
$80 million to reserve funds. The Committee reviewed RTD’s use of those funds with the following findings:
•

RTD utilized CARES funding in alignment with the earmarked intention for spending – to support operating
costs and employee salaries in the interest of avoiding layoffs. Funds were reimbursed by the federal
government for the following two expense types:

•

Represented and Non-Represented Wages and Benefits: Employee wages for both unionized and non-union
employees; roughly 64% of CARES funding drawn through September 2020.

•

Purchased Transportation – Bus or CRT (“Commuter Rail Transit”): Externally contracted routes with Denver
transportation partners; roughly 36% of CARES funding drawn through September 2020.

•

Funding appears to have been spent in alignment with Federal Transit Administration (FTA) intentions.

•

RTD appropriately balanced provision of transportation options with responsibility for its workforce and
regional economic stability in its funding decisions.

•

RTD worked to implement cost cutting measures to reduce the funds required for continued operations as
buoyed by CARES funding.

•

Arriving at the findings above required analysis, indicating RTD was not able to easily convey the information
to public in a meaningful manner.

1 The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), enacted by the Congress on January

3rd, 2020.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Financial Review

Final Report

11

1.B.1.a

In anticipation of continued declines in ridership, farebox revenues, and sales and use tax receipts, RTD adopted
of approximately 400 positions, or about 14% of RTD’s entire workforce. The 2021 budget totals $1.66 billion, a
reduction of $125.3 million (7%) from the amended 2020 budget and does not assume any additional federal
COVID relief funds beyond the CARES Act.
Additionally, on January 11, 2021 the FTA released the apportionments for $14 billion in Federal funding
appropriated by Congress through the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of
2021 (CRRSAA) 2. The apportionment to RTD is approximately $203.4 million, discussed further below.

Recommendations: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
The more than $700 million RTD will receive in Federal COVID-19 relief funding provides a revenue source for
RTD to implement the Committee’s recommendations, in alignment with federal funding guidance. The
Committee’s recommendations for spending these funds are targeted at stabilizing RTD operations, restoring
services, rebuilding trust, attracting new and returning riders, and helping the Agency recover from the COVID-19
pandemic. 3 As pandemic restrictions ease and more employees return to the workplace, there is an urgent, timelimited opportunity to attract them to commute via transit before their post-pandemic behavior is locked into
driving to work in a single-occupant vehicle instead.
1. Provide a transparent process and make priorities clear.
RTD should provide full transparency during deliberations regarding the use of these federal dollars so that
stakeholders and members of the public can follow the tradeoffs, including pros and cons of the RTD Board’s
decisions. RTD should clearly define its priorities for this funding, the issues being addressed by additional
funds, and the amount of funding allocated to each priority. This transparency should continue as funds are
spent so the public can track expenditures. As there may be a year-end surplus because of these funds, the
Committee requests accountability in the use of these dollars.
2. Strategically recall previously laid off front line employees.
The Committee acknowledges and supports RTD’s decision to recall approximately 200 direct-service
employees. However, in keeping with the above recommendation, RTD should explain the amount of its

2 The Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA), signed into law on

December 27th, 2020.
3 The Equity Assessment for this recommendation is located in Part 2 of this document.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

its 2021 budget based on a continued service level of approximately 60% of pre-pandemic levels and a reduction

Final Report

12

1.B.1.a

federal stimulus funding allocation needed to recall these workers and the amount of funding remaining to
transit service, particularly to transit-dependent communities as quickly as possible.
3. Share federal stimulus funding with other transit service providers in the metro area.
There are several non-profit and community-based transit service providers in the RTD district. They
supplement RTD’s fixed-route and paratransit services, often at a cost lower than RTD could provide for
comparable service. As with RTD, these providers have been impacted by reduced ridership and lost
revenue due to the COVID-19 pandemic and would benefit greatly from funding, where appropriate.
4. Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local
and regional routes and free fares for all or some of the discount groups (youth up to 19 years old,
seniors 65+, disabled, and low income LiVE).
Market it as a simple, affordable, and easy to understand way to ride RTD and an incentive to attract
returning and new riders. This will reduce costs for financially struggling essential workers who are still riding
RTD. During the pilot program, use this time to explore other ways to improve affordability of existing and/or
new pass programs, including LiVE, that can be put in place as a longer-term solution.
5. Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving uptake and ease of use of passes.
Allow flexibility in the EcoPass programs and contracts so that more neighborhoods and businesses can
participate. For example, allow master EcoPass contracts to support county-wide affordable housing
programs and create more options for businesses to obtain employee EcoPasses for a subset of their
workers. Consider discounts for bulk pass purchases.
6. Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at county HHS departments to help people
through LiVE enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove eligibility through verification
documents from other assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.). Continuing to get the LiVE ID cards in
qualified participant’s hands is essential and counties can provide this customer assistance, but need
funding to help support this function.

Review of State Performance Audit
In December, 2020 the Colorado Office of the State Auditor published the findings of a Performance Audit
conducted between December 2019 through September 2020. A key concern of the State Auditor was a loss in
scheduled service due to operator vacancies. The State Auditor found bus and rail operators lacked meaningful
supervisory feedback, were not provided sufficient rest breaks, and were at risk of experiencing fatigue. The
audit highlighted employee turnover of bus and light rail operators as a key concern and recommendations were
put forth to improve operator morale, and therefore turnover.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

support additional priorities. The focus of these recalls should ensure RTD has capacity to restore quality

Final Report

13

1.B.1.a

The Operations Subcommittee assessed and discussed the State Auditor Report’s findings on operator retention
and human resources. The report described a series of recommendations to address and improve operator
retention. The Committee agrees with the findings of the report and encourages RTD to spend Federal relief
funding to support the implementation of the proposed recommendations 4.
Summary of report recommendations:
•

RTD management should take additional steps to improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover.

•

RTD management should improve its processes to help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.

•

RTD management should improve its processes for assigning schedules to operators.

Governance and Executive Leadership
The Committee was tasked with reviewing the structure of RTD governance and executive leadership. Of
particular interest was elevating the voice of local communities and residents in transit service decision making
and restoring trust and confidence in RTD. The Committee evaluated models of peer transit agencies to
understand how RTD’s governance structure might be improved to meet these needs.

Subregional Service Councils
For several months, the Committee discussed concepts associated with a service council concept. Two
roundtable conversations with representatives from local governments and other stakeholders across the RTD
service area were held. Staff representatives from jurisdictions and organizations throughout the District
participated in these roundtables, sharing their experiences and perspectives.
The concept of the Subregional Service Councils was explored for improving collaboration with RTD on service
changes and increasing two-way communication. Subregional Service Councils were envisioned as locally
accessible public forums where transit users and community leaders make recommendations on proposed

4 The Equity Assessment for this recommendation can be found in Part 2 of this document.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Recommendations: Improve Operator Retention

14

Final Report

1.B.1.a

transit service changes and develop community-based transit plans, identifying transportation challenges in low-

Recommendations: Develop Subregional Service Councils
The Committee believes RTD should have a more collaborative decision-making structure to increase input from
local communities 5.
1. Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit service planning process by establishing
Subregional Service Councils. Service Councils will have responsibility for developing and
recommending “local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s consideration. The Committee
believes the introduction of this concept will:
•

Improve collaboration between RTD and the communities it serves.

•

Increase opportunities for public input through locally accessible forums.

•

Advance social equity goals by developing community-based transit plans that identify transportation and
service gaps, especially in low income and minority neighborhoods.

•

Promote innovative mobility solutions at a local level consistent with the RTD Board’s overall service
goals and objectives.

•

Provide an opportunity to address geographic equity and rebuild trust and transparency with
constituents.

2. Membership: The Committee recommends service councils be representative of the community-atlarge. Service council membership shall include:
•

Elected representatives, or their designee, from each city/town/county within each council district.

•

A broad spectrum of community interests and geography to ensure social, economic, financial, and
environmental equity considerations are represented.

•

Transit Users: residents who live, work, or attend school within the council district.

3. Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
comprehensively evaluate the following two service council boundary concepts to ascertain the best
fit for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its analysis.
•

County Boundaries: The RTD service area encompasses wholly or partially Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Broomfield, Denver, Douglas, and Jefferson counties. The establishment of service councils based on
this pre-determined geo-political boundary would appear logical since local governments residing in the
same county already have a familiarity with each other. Additionally, county-based service councils

5 The Equity Assessment for this recommendation can be found in Part 2 of this document.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

income neighborhoods.

15

Final Report

1.B.1.a

would be consistent with the already established DRCOG subregional forums which are utilized for
•

Travel Shed: A valuable tool for visualizing and analyzing mobility patterns. In the Denver region, known
travel behavior makes this concept a viable option particularly if fewer service districts is the objective.

4. RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling the
mobility needs of Denver area residents. Understandably, taxpayers are interested in having more
information of how their tax dollars are being used to create an equitable transit system. As a result, the
Committee recommends RTD develop and submit to the subregional service councils an annual report
illustrating how the revenues generated in each subregion are used to provide transportation “value” to the
residents of the subregion.

RTD Board of Directors
In response to stakeholder feedback concerning the size and effectiveness of the RTD Board, noting that
previous RTD Boards had demonstrated a tendency to take a more parochial point of view, the Committee
sought to complete an assessment of the RTD Board structure. This assessment evaluated peer agency
structures to understand how RTD may be aligned with or differ from peer agencies in its structure. The
summary of the assessment can be found at Appendix 4.

Recommendations: Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
The structure of the Board of Directors differs from some peer agencies. The Committee believes a deeper
exploration should be pursued after Subregional Councils are implemented 6.
The Committee acknowledges a lack of consensus on how the structure of the RTD Board affects the
effectiveness of its decision making, neither is there clarity on the existence of a problem with the Board’s
structure nor what that problem may be. In addition, the Committee is making a series of recommendations (e.g.,
Subregional Service Councils) which, if implemented, may impact Board operations. Finally, the RTD Board is
proactively making changes to the structure of its Subcommittees and the organization has appointed a new
General Manager, both of which present opportunities for modifying the functionality of the Board.
When coupled with these changes, the finding that RTD’s Board structure differs from most other transit
agencies is not sufficient for developing recommendations, as they simply note areas of differences and
commonalities, as opposed to effectiveness. Therefore, it would be premature to develop recommendations for
future Board structures and the Committee suggests further study and analysis be completed by an independent
6 The Equity Assessment for this recommendation can be found in Part 2 of this document.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

transportation planning and funding decisions.

Final Report

16

1.B.1.a

body with input from regional stakeholders. Specifically, the Committee recommends the following course of

•

Following a reasonable period of time for the Committee recommendations to be implemented and results
seen (e.g., two years), investigate the effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure. In partnership with regional
stakeholders, evaluate the historical context of RTD’s Board structure, define Board effectiveness, success
and efficiency, and evaluate past Boards’ records for meeting these criteria. Determine whether and where
problem(s) exists, and if so, develop a problem statement and recommended solution. If a problem does not
exist or inefficiencies are not found, the RTD Board structure should remain unchanged.

•

Where problems are identified or in instances where the Board could be operating more efficiently, conduct a
deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board structure in comparison with peer transit agencies and other
agencies within the region. Further examine the findings in this assessment and develop an understanding of
the impacts the implementation of any Committee recommendations.

•

Based on the findings of the study, determine if a new Board structure would better serve both RTD and the
region’s constituents. If so, outline a new Board structure, including roles and responsibilities, and revise the
by-laws if necessary.

Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
The Committee reviewed the district’s short- and long-term prioritization of resources to ensure RTD is
maximizing available dollars and benefiting both taxpayers and the riding public. Additionally, the Committee
looked to determine the long-range financial stability of the Agency, and how the Agency can achieve stability
and growth while still meeting its core mission. The overall themes of these explorations were similar in nature
and viewed as a package. The Committee investigated the FasTracks program and evaluated Service
Performance and Financial Reporting Transparency. The Committee offers the following recommendations.

Northwest Rail/Unfinished FasTracks
FasTracks is RTD's voter-approved transit expansion program. Since 2004, RTD built 25.1 miles of light rail track
and 53 miles of commuter rail track, launched the Flatiron Flyer bus rapid transit service, and opened an
intermodal hub at Union Station in downtown Denver. These investments and projects represent over 75% of the
FasTracks program. Table 2 details the four unfinished corridors in the approved FasTracks program. The
Finance Subcommittee prepared and presented an analysis of Northwest Rail for discussion within the
Subcommittee, included as Appendix 5 to this report.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

action:

Corridor

Description

Daily
Ridership
Opening Year

Capital Cost
(2018
millions)

Annual
O&M (2018
millions)

Central Rail
Extension

30th &
Downing to
38th & Blake

3,200

$140

$2.6

North Metro
Completion

124th Ave to
SH7

3,100

$280

$3.6

Northwest
Rail,
Westminster
to Longmont

Peak Service
Plan

800

$708

$14.0

Full Service

4,100

$1,500

$20.6

Southwest

Mineral Ave. to
C-470 &
Lucent Blvd

3,700

$170

$3.2

Extension

1.B.1.a

Table 2: Unfinished FasTracks Corridors

Recommendations: Explore FasTracks Options
The four unfinished FasTracks corridors, Northwest Rail in particular, pose a significant financial and operating
challenge for RTD. These recommendations provide opportunities to explore achievable options while continuing
to keep commitments to voters.
1. The Committee supports the Northwest Rail alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable partnership opportunities with the FRPR
project. This route not only appears to provide significant benefits for the FRPR project but also offers an
opportunity to leverage investments and services to support Northwest Rail.
2. RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase projected ridership on the unfinished corridors.
3. RTD should investigate opportunities to increase non-RTD resources for transit stations including
local cost sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or public-private partnerships.
4. RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive analysis of the Northwest Rail project to
establish a common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership and timeline), and then engage in
a regional discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both near-term and long-term, for the
corridor.
5. RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS)

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

17

Final Report

18

Final Report

1.B.1.a

and the DRCOG 2050 Regional Transportation Plan. (see Appendix 6: RTD to Evaluate Potential BRT
In any scenario, RTD needs to pay down its debt before it can build and operate Northwest Rail. In the
interim, RTD should negotiate with the communities of the Northwest Corridor on how to provide more
immediate mobility to the region, such as accelerating expansion of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), while
continuing to evaluate Northwest Rail options.

Performance and Financial Reporting Transparency
Incumbent upon RTD, as a responsible steward of public funds, is to share performance and financial
information in a meaningful and accessible manner. While RTD currently publishes budget to actual data and
regular performance reporting via Board reports, the reporting mechanisms are neither straightforward nor easily
digestible for the layperson. Open, accessible data is necessary for building trust with the public so that it can
understand and be supportive of the services being subsidized through taxation. The Committee conducted
several conversations focused on reporting outcomes. Core topics of each conversation included existing RTD
capability, clarity of information, accessibility of information, and a long-term view of RTD’s financial outlook.
This, in combination with research and a review of dashboards of other agencies, informed the Committee’s
recommendations. Supplemental information on the proposed Performance Metrics can be found in Appendix 7.

Recommendations: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
RTD should take steps to provide prominent, accessible and easy-to-understand financial and performance
information for the public, stakeholders, partners, and elected officials 7.

Service performance
1. Operational Effectiveness
•

Increase ridership
o
•

•

Percent boarding change by mode

Provide dependable service
o

Percent of on-time performance by mode

o

Percent of employee vacancies

Ensure fleet reliability
o

Percent of vehicles over their useful life

7 The Equity Assessment for this recommendation can be found in Part 2 of this document.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Benefits)

19

Final Report

1.B.1.a

•

•

Efficiently manage finances
o

Operating cost recovery ratio

o

Percent change in fare revenue

o

Percentage of cost per mile as compared to peer agencies

Achieve outstanding financial performance
o

Bond Rating

3. Customer Experience
•

•

Provide an excellent rider experience
o

Percent of time passengers are in crowded conditions

o

Average facility and vehicle cleanliness complaints per month

o

Overall customer satisfaction and/or net promoter score

Engage with customers
o

Call answer rate efficiency (in seconds)

o

Average time to resolve customer issues

4. Community Engagement
At this time, metrics capturing the success of community engagement are not proposed. While the
Committee prioritized this metric area, there are insufficient peer examples from which to draw. Below is a
list of stretch metrics that may be considered at a later time when there is a better understanding of what
success would look like and/or data becomes available:
•

Positive contribution to the region

•

Percent increase in positive public impressions (multi-media)

•

Number of successful partnerships

5. Equity & Accessibility
•

•

Serve all populations
o

FTA Title VI Triennial review compliance

o

Percent of customers indicating service frequency meets their needs

Serve all customers
o

Adherence to ADA zero denials request mandate

o

Average ADA complaints per boarding

o

Equity & Accessibility Stretch Metrics

The Committee noted that the metrics outlined above, while measurable and applicable, do not capture the
full spirit and importance of measuring equity and accessibility. As such, stretch metrics have been identified
for further consideration. These stretch metrics will require a clear definition of terminology and success. In
some cases, these metrics may require access to data that is not currently available:
•

Percent of minority/low-income people with access to the system

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

2. Operational Efficiency

20

Final Report

Percent of households within a 10-minute walk or roll of high-quality mobility options (consider how
affordable housing may also be incorporated)

•

Average wait time by service mode

•

Ratio of average fare to national average

•

Average number of transfers per trip

•

Calls answered for paratransit

6. Environmental Impact
•

Protect the environment
o

Percent increase of low emission vehicles in fleet

The Subcommittee noted that the metric outlined above, while measurable and applicable, does not
capture the extent to which RTD is impacting the regional environment. As such, stretch metrics have
been identified for further consideration. These stretch metrics will require a clear definition of
terminology and success. In some cases, these metrics may require access to data that is not currently
available. It would also be helpful to use metrics that show how RTD is contributing to alreadyestablished regional, statewide, and federal metrics on ozone and greenhouse gas emission reductions.
•

Pound of seasonal air pollutant prevented (NOX in summer and PM 2.5 in winter)

•

Pounds of CO2 per passenger miles traveled

•

Total facility energy use

7. Safety
•

•

Operate a safe system
o

Number of preventable accidents per 100,000 miles

o

Number of signal violations

Keep employees safe
o

•

Number of reported employee equipment accidents

Keep the system secure
o

Offenses per 100,000 riders

o

Average response time to emergency dispatch calls

Financial reporting
1. Provide a simplified version of financial budget information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format.
Currently, RTD's website provides a great deal of financial information that is challenging to sift through and
understand. While this amount of detailed financial information may be useful in some situations and should
remain available for the public, RTD should create and update quarterly the following:

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

•

1.B.1.a

21

Final Report

A basic budget document (ideally in a one-sheet format). This should be a high-level summary document
that contains revenues and expenses by category in relation to the current adopted budget.

•

Capital project schedule and expenditure information updated at least quarterly.

2. Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and the process it uses to form and finalize this
budget.
Even in a basic format, financial information can be difficult to interpret. By supplementing the above
recommendation with a high-level summary “translation” of the budget in easily understood language, RTD
can help improve the lay person’s grasp of the information. Alternative formats, such as videos, also provide
viable options. A layperson's overview of the budget itself would be useful, including available revenue
streams, primary expense categories, and defining terminology such as "Base System" and "Farebox
Revenue." This is also an opportunity to explain the fact that fares do not cover the full cost of a ride, which
is a common misperception. RTD should provide the following:
•

A description of the budget adoption process and the role of the Board of Directors.

•

A description of how the budget aligns with RTD's mission and performance objectives.

3. Include financial information on FasTracks that is easy to follow.
Given the public interest in and scrutiny of the FasTracks program, RTD can improve upon the availability of
public access to up-to-date financial information by enhancing its well-developed FasTracks website to
provide this data. The updated information should describe the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA),
how it is used, and any additional resources that help stakeholders and the public understand the status of
FasTracks projects. In developing this content, RTD should be mindful of public awareness when using
undefined terms such as "FasTracks,” "Base System," etc.
4. Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal stimulus funds as they continue to flow.
To date, federal stimulus money received by RTD from the CARES Act and CRRSAA has totaled over $430
million. The Agency is also expected to receive a third allotment from the most recent stimulus package.
RTD should provide a quarterly report with a full accounting on the use of these funds as well as share its
priorities for the third allotment, especially as these funds exceed what is needed to cover base operations
(including personnel costs). Materials should explain restrictions on stimulus dollars (what they can and
cannot be used for) and should provide, where relevant, a connection to the Committee’s recommendations
regarding the use of additional federal relief funds.

Improve Service to All Riders
The Committee also had a responsibility for reporting and making recommendations regarding how RTD can
better serve all riders including individuals with disabilities and those who are within transit-dependent

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

•

1.B.1.a

22

Final Report

1.B.1.a

populations. This mandate includes a review of the district’s plans for expanding ridership and understanding
Specific goals of the Committee included creating fare and pass structures that are easy to understand, ensuring
regional and subregional coordination, improving and promoting operational efficiency, and enhancing ADA
accessibility and service delivery.

Service Delivery
The Operations Subcommittee hosted discussions concerning service delivery where subject matter experts
within the region were invited to share their own perceptions of RTD service. Specifically, Colorado Cross
Disability Coalition (CCDC) shared its perspectives on fixed-route service (regularly scheduled service operating
on a predetermined route) from the point of view of the disability community. Representing the point of view of
the business community, Auraria Campus shared perceptions of RTD fixed-route services. Finally, Committee
member Krystin Trustman provided her perspective on this topic as a regular RTD rider and a member of RTD’s
Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee.

Recommendations: Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service
Provision
The Committee recommends the following actions to improve fixed-route and paratransit service provision 8:
1. Accessibility + Infrastructure
Improve accessibility at light rail and fixed-route stops. Proposed solutions include:
•

Zero-stair entrance at transit stations.

•

Standardize wayfinding signage and directional grooved pavement, ensuring some level of consistency
across similarly designed stations to ensure people who are blind can navigate transit stations.

•

Improve audio announcement systems to assist those in the blind community.

•

Identify a list of accessibility improvements with disability and mobility advocates and seek funding to
implement these projects, including federal infrastructure dollars as they become available.

•

Using existing survey data, work in partnership with municipalities to standardize and improve bus stop
placement to ensure greater accessibility.

2. Multimodal Transportation

8 The Equity Assessment for this recommendation can be found in Part 2 of this document.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

how the district is addressing coverage gaps, prioritizing route planning, and serving its entire service area.

23

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Work with micro-mobility partners and municipalities to ensure transit stations have diverse mobility options
mobility issues) to provide riders the last mile connection to their destination.
3. Service Delivery
•

As Reimagine RTD continues its work, have this advisory body focus its redesign efforts on prioritizing
the travel needs of frequent transit users, including bus rapid transit.

•

Work in coordination with municipalities and anchor institutions to coordinate land use and transportation
planning to ensure a comprehensive network of transit-only lanes on major routes and equitable transitoriented developments.

•

Support limited access for pick- up by on-demand services like Taxi, Uber, Lyft and others that are
providing transportation for those with disabilities. Designated areas at the station would help provide a
seamless connection for transit riders.

Partnerships
One of the Committee focus areas is an exploration of how to enable partnerships with other transit agencies
and nonprofits to provide for better service inside and outside of the RTD service area. The Committee hosted
discussions with Via Mobility, the Denver Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, Boulder County, the
City of Lone Tree and RTD. These organizations provided brief overviews of their current partnerships. The
Committee also discussed the potential role Transportation Network Companies (TNCs) could have in the
region. The Committee determined RTD should have additional flexibility and clear authority to contract with
nonprofits and local governments for service delivery to ensure cost-effective and efficient transit services. This
recommendation, noted below, includes the FreeLift Pilot, which is further described in Appendix 9.

Recommendations: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and
Services
Partnerships with local governments, non-profits, business, and institutions offer opportunities to leverage and
expand RTD resources and services 9.
1. Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve service efficiency and grow ridership. RTD
should emphasize partnerships with local governments, anchor institutions, transportation management
organizations (TMOs) and employers or employment centers who have a unique understanding of local
mobility needs.
2. Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service gaps and increase ridership.

9 The Equity Assessment for this recommendation can be found in Part 2 of this document.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

(e.g., e-bikes, scooters, and other multi-modal devices, including 3- and 4-wheel versions for people with

24

Final Report

1.B.1.a

with existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber, Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route
service may not be the most appropriate mobility solution. Also, explore opportunities to contract with
other third-party providers that may specialize in a particular service (e.g., paratransit) at a reduced cost.
4. As more federal relief funds become available, expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency.
5. Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant program to drive bold ideas to increasing
ridership. Recipients would receive funds to dive deeper into project concepts and implementation, creating
models of innovation for the entire service area.
6. Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a component that highlights existing private
and public partnerships.
7. Regularly evaluate the success of existing partnerships by predetermined metrics and “re-scope”
relationships to ensure maximum benefit.
8. RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships
to build ridership, especially among disadvantaged communities. FreeLift pilots would serve
communities more than a mile from rail stations and be available only to RTD pass holders. The service
would be operated in partnership with TNCs or nonprofits such as Via Mobility Services and pick up
passengers at designated stops along a designated loop route.

Fare and Pass Programs
Recognizing the complicated nature of the RTD fare and pass program, the Committee sought to identify
opportunities for improved affordability and simplification of the program:
•

Aligning all discount fares (seniors, youth, persons with disabilities, and low-income)

•

Creating a simple fare and pass structure for customers and operators

•

Minimizing the cost burden to equity populations

•

Delivering communications through easy-to-access channels and easy-to-use tools

The Committee reviewed the current RTD fare structure and pass programs, the LiVE Program (discount fares
for low-income riders) and the administration of fare offerings. Subsequently, the Committee reviewed pass
programs at peer agencies including Houston Metro, Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART), Metropolitan Atlanta
Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA), King County Metro Transit, and Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority (MBTA).
Finally, the Committee examined a fare relief and assistance program in Portland, Oregon and a proposal to
make fares free in Kansas City, Missouri. These conversations served as a backdrop for discussion and
formulation for the Committee’s recommendation.
The Operations Subcommittee also reviewed the findings of the State Auditor Report in addition to assessing
current challenges and opportunities for increasing ridership with consideration of operational goals. With the

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

3. Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local transportation services through collaboration

25

Final Report

1.B.1.a

recommendation to remove the farebox recovery ratio, this recommendation considers goals to assess

Recommendations: Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
RTD's fare structure and pass programs are complex and can be difficult to navigate. Also, RTD fares are some
of the highest in the country. The Committee recommends simplifying fares and pass programs and making them
more affordable to improve the customer experience and increase ridership 10.
1. Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly discounted) fare that would cover equity
populations (youth, senior, disabled, and low-income).
•

Recognizing the potential barriers to free fares, the Committee recommends consolidating fares as
single 50% discount.

•

RTD should explore increasing the eligible age categories for free fares up to middle school or even high
school aged youth.

2. Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass structures.
•

Implement a “family plan” benefit for all RTD pass-holders, where an adult can purchase fare media
using one smart card for their multiple individuals. Standardize existing group pass programs (EcoPass,
NEcoPass, College Pass) into one brand, EcoPass, which is deeply discounted and focused on
incentivizing use.
o

Explore a “pay as you go” pass with fare capping/accumulators.

o

Make EcoPass available to every employee in the district (~1.5 million) through a monthly, per
employee transportation fee assessed on employers.

o
•

Explore the implementation of a recurrent “membership” model.

Incentivize individuals and organizations to purchase passes in bulk by:
o

Providing discounts for bulk purchases.

o

Enabling contributions to mobile wallets from multiple entities: both the employee/resident, and
from employers/governments/non-profits, allowing employers to match contributions directly on
the pass media of the employees.

•

Explore a “connect card” that allows riders to use transit fare across various entities (for example:
CDOT’s Bustang, and microtransit/mobility options).

•

Replicate pass types on the mobile platform with fare capping/accumulators (e.g., if you purchase fare
amounts that add up to a day/monthly pass, your fare is automatically converted as opposed to over
paying).

10 The Equity Assessment for this recommendation can be found in Part 2 of this document.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

performance and ease of use in addition to specific recommendations related to fares and passes.

Final Report

26

1.B.1.a

utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine updates to the agreements.
4. Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement.
The fine for fare evasion on RTD services is $75 and is set by State statute. Given that fare evasion and
illegal parking are similar offenses, this raises some equity concerns that transit riders pay higher fines than
car drivers. State lawmakers and RTD should explore legislation to address this inequity and assure
comparable fine levels for fare evasion and parking violations.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

3. Convene community, business and anchor institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)

Equity
Assessments

RTD Accountability Committee

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

27

Part 2

1.B.1.a

Final Report

Packet Pg. 31

28

Final Report

1.B.1.a

The Committee recognized the importance of integrating an equity lens into its recommendations. Because RTD
is intended to serve members of the District equally, careful consideration of the impacts any recommendations
may have on all populations was necessary. To ensure consistency in this approach, the Committee developed
an equity Mission Statement and established a template of relevant questions for its use throughout the
gathering of information. The template served as guidance to the Committee when evaluating the impact
recommendations might impose on the community.

Mission Statement
Social, economic, financial, and environmental equity is a paramount consideration for the Committee. The
Committee will consider the needs of communities of concern, including but not limited to minority, low-income,
individuals with disabilities, older adult, and veteran populations. Effort will be made through the Committee’s
work to ensure benefits are shared across the RTD service area and that no one group bears a larger burden of
environmental or financial impacts. Actions that include spatial and other forms of analysis, community
engagement, and consulting experts will be used at appropriate times to inform the work and final
recommendations of the Committee.

Operationalizing Equity in the Deliberation of the Committee and
Subcommittees
For each recommendation, participation was invited from community organizations with expertise in equity such
as the Center for Community Wealth Building, the Denver Institute of Equity and Reconciliation, and Mile High
Connects during initial deliberations of the Subcommittees as part of the research phase. Throughout the
formation and consideration of issues and policy options, an equality lens was applied. This lens served to focus
attention on the following questions:
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an
increase or decrease in equity?

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
b. How do we measure this impact?
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so,
which communities and how?

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this
raise issues of equity and justice?

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Overview

Final Report

29

1.B.1.a

4. Does this policy/strategy address historic, systemic or institutional barriers that have impacted this
community?

Applying Equity Assessments to the recommendations
DRCOG staff and Mile High Connects assisted the Committee in conducting appropriate Equity Assessments of
draft recommendations. Early Equity Assessments were completed by DRCOG. The Committee subsequently
determined, as a measure of independence, that future Equity Assessment work would be completed by Mile
High Connects.
Draft recommendations, along with the assessments, were made available for public review and input. Each
Subcommittee considered the assessment and any input obtained through public engagement before moving
final Subcommittee recommendations to the full Committee.
The full Committee considered Subcommittee recommendations and finalized draft recommendations that were
brought to the public for input via an online survey and a public hearing. Input received from this outreach was
considered before the Committee finalized any recommendations. A decision was formalized to include
dissenting opinions, if any, in the final report of recommendations.

Equity Assessment methodology
DRCOG staff completed the Equity Assessment for spending COVID-19 relief funds prior to the Committee
engaging Mile High Connects to complete the remaining assessments. DRCOG’s approach examined each
distinct recommendation with respect to the guiding questions above. The Equity Assessments were then
distributed to the Committee and shared in its meeting packets. During Committee meetings public comment was
accepted and Committee Members shared their views of the analysis.
Mile High Connects leveraged its regional network in its approach to evaluating the equity of the
recommendations. An ad-hoc equity working group consisting of community leaders and organizations, was
facilitated by Mile High Connects staff alongside an external facilitator. Participants in these Equity Assessments
included representatives from Conservation Colorado (transit advocacy and environmental justice), Colorado
Fiscal Institute (policy and finance), Colorado Criminal Justice Reform Coalition (justice reform and health care),
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition (transit advocacy and disabilities rights), Denver Streets Partnership (transit
advocacy), and the Fax Partnership (housing and business). Recognizing the interrelatedness of the
recommendations, the working group completed assessments as packages.
The recommendations contained in Part 1 of this report have been analyzed with respect to the questions asked
in the Operationalizing Equity in the Deliberation of the Committee and Subcommittees section above, resulting
in the Equity Assessments that follow.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?

30

Final Report

1.B.1.a

The Equity Assessment for the use of Federal COVID-19 relief funds was completed by DRCOG staff. There are
six distinct recommendations specific to COVID and other Federal stimulus funding. They are:
1. Provide a transparent process and make priorities clear.
2. Strategically recall previously laid off front line employees.
3. Share federal stimulus funding with other transit service providers in the metro area.
4. Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled and low income LiVE).
5. Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving uptake and ease of use of passes.
6. Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at county HHS departments to help people through
LiVE enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.). Continuing to get the LiVE ID cards in qualified participant’s
hands is essential and counties can provide this customer assistance with needed funding to help
support this function.
The Committee determined an Equity Assessment was not necessary for Recommendation 1 “Provide a
transparent process and make priorities clear,” as equity is the foundation upon which this recommendation was
developed. Therefore, only Equity Assessments for recommendations 2 through 6 are provided below.

Equity Assessment: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds Recommendations
Recommendation 2: Strategically recall previously laid off front line employees.
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
This recommendation may benefit communities of concern by restoring employment for employees who
may have not found other employment. Many of these front-line employees, such as bus and rail
operators and mechanics, could be vulnerable without employment if they do not have sufficient savings
to pay for their needs. It could also provide benefit to communities of concern more broadly if the reemployment of frontline workers also means additional transit service for transit-dependent populations.
This is likely to create an increase in equity.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
A benefit is something that can help improve the lives of front-line employees temporarily out of work
and the mobility of transit-dependent populations. A burden is something that can curtail it.

b. How do we measure this impact?
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds

31

Final Report

1.B.1.a

This impact can be measured by assessing the number of frontline employees who are reemployed

2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
This recommendation could benefit communities that have their transit service increased or restored
because more frontline workers are reemployed and providing increased service.

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
If service is restored or increased for routes serving low-income, veterans, older adults, individuals
with disabilities, minorities, zero car households, and other communities of concern there could be a
benefit to those communities. Many of the frontline workers who would be reemployed could be
members of one or more of these communities.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
This recommendation is for an action district wide. There is no anticipation for any disproportionate
impacts or requirements to fall upon any neighborhoods.
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
A possible unintended consequence of this recommendation rests with the continuation or replacement of
the funding stream. Once stimulus funds have been exhausted a risk exists that, without new sources of
revenue, employment may again be curtailed and any new services cut or eliminated. There could be an
additional burden to RTD if frontline employees are laid off another time as there is significant cost
associated with retraining frontline employees. This can be mitigated by reviewing revenue projections and
rehiring based on conservative estimates to ensure needed dollars are kept in reserve for one or more future
budget years.
4. Does this policy/strategy address historic, systemic, environmental, or institutional barriers that have
impacted this community?
This recommendation can address barriers by rehiring frontline employees who may belong to one or more
vulnerable communities and restore or increase transit services for communities with transit-dependent
populations.
Recommendation 3: Share federal stimulus funding with other transit service providers in the metro
area.
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

and the additional service for transit-dependent populations.

32

Final Report

1.B.1.a

This recommendation could benefit communities of concern, especially older adults and individuals with
additional benefit to RTD as the operating and maintenance costs for non-profits that provide mobility for
older adults and individuals with disabilities typically is less than RTD’s Americans with Disabilities
Paratransit Service (Access a Ride), meaning these agencies could provide services to people that
otherwise would use Access a Ride and increase RTD costs. This is likely to create an increase in equity.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
A benefit is something that can help improve the mobility of communities of concern by giving them
greater access to their community. A burden is something that can disadvantage communities of
concern by reducing their access to mobility.

b. How do we measure this impact?
The impact can be measured by how many more trips can be provided to transit-dependent
populations.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
This recommendation could impact transit-dependent populations, especially older adults and individuals
with disabilities throughout the Denver region.

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
Older adults and individuals with disabilities.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
The impact of this recommendation would likely be distributed throughout the Denver region.
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
Funding provided to other transit agencies would reduce how much can be spent on RTD services. This can
be mitigated by RTD studying the potential impact to its own services before deciding how much funding to
share with other agencies.
4. Does this policy/strategy address historic, systemic, environmental, or institutional barriers that have
impacted this community?
This recommendation addresses access to mobility for transit-dependent populations, especially older adults
and individuals with disabilities.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

disabilities, by increasing revenue for transit agencies that serve those populations. There could be an

33

Final Report

1.B.1.a

flat fare for local and regional routes and free fares for all or some of the discount groups (youth up to 19
years old, seniors 65+, disabled and low income LiVE).
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
This recommendation could benefit communities of concern in a few ways:
•

By making it more affordable to ride transit

•

An increase in ridership from reduced fares could have the potential to restore or increase
services in communities with transit-dependent riders

•

A flat fare can reduce confusion over how much it costs to ride for all riders including
communities of concern

This is likely to create an increase in equity.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
A benefit is something that can help improve the mobility of communities of concern. A burden is
something that can curtail it.

b. How do we measure this impact?
The impact can be potentially measured by measuring the increase/decrease in ridership after
implementation of the recommendation.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
This could impact communities of concern but not necessarily any specific geography. Older adults and
individuals with disabilities could see the most benefit as their fare cost could be reduced since RTD is
federally obligated to offer a fifty percent discount to these communities based on the regular fare.

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
Several communities of concern could benefit from this recommendation.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
This recommendation would carry equal benefit throughout the RTD district.

11 This Equity Assessment was completed prior to learning RTD intends to do a study of its pass and fare

program. RTD will not be making any changes until this study is complete.
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Recommendation 4 11: Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and attract new riders via a reduced

34

Final Report

1.B.1.a

3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
reduction in services that RTD cannot afford to provide. RTD can mitigate this adverse outcome by studying
its potential impact before implementation.
4. Does this policy/strategy address historic, systemic, environmental, or institutional barriers that have
impacted this community?
Fare cost and complexity (hard to understand how much it costs to ride) have been cited as barriers to
ridership.
Recommendation 5: Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving uptake and ease of use of
passes.
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
Making it easier to obtain and use passes could make it easier for all populations to use transit. It could be
especially beneficial for communities of concern as the challenges with obtaining passes and understanding
how to use them may pose a greater difficulty for them. This will likely create an increase in equity.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
A benefit is making it easier for communities of concern to ride transit. A burden could be making it
more difficult.

b. How do we measure this impact?
We can measure the increase/decrease in ridership, especially for communities of concern. Ridership
for communities of concern may be discerned from rider surveys.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
This recommended change would likely impact all areas of the RTD region similarly. Communities of
concern could see greater benefit as the challenges with obtaining passes and understanding how to use
them may pose a greater difficulty for them.

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
This recommendation could benefit all communities of concern across the RTD district although more
benefit may come to those who live close to transit than those who do not.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

A reduction in fare revenue could result from this recommendation. That reduction in revenue could mean a

35

Final Report

1.B.1.a

3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
An unintended consequence could be money used to improve pass programs could otherwise have been
used to provide more services. If the work to address this recommendation is done efficiently, the impact to
the operations and maintenance budget should be minimal.
4. Does this policy/strategy address historic, systemic, environmental, or institutional barriers that have
impacted this community?
The proposed recommendation change can address barriers to accessing transit, a challenge that is
possibly felt more by communities of concern.
Recommendation 6: Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at county HHS departments to
help people through LiVE enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove eligibility through verification
documents from other assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.). Continuing to get the LiVE ID cards in
qualified participant’s hands is essential and counties can provide this customer assistance but need
funding to help support this function.
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
This recommendation may benefit communities of concern by potentially making it easier for eligible
individuals to register for this cost saving program. Further, it could reduce wait times. This recommendation
may burden communities of concern if enrollment increases beyond the capacity of the allotted funding and,
therefore, possible outcomes could be eligible clients either denied access to the program or wait listed.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
A benefit is something that can help improve the access to affordable fares for communities of
concern. A burden is something that can curtail it.

b. How do we measure this impact?
This impact can be measured by how many additional individuals are enrolled.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
This recommendation could benefit many communities, but it would likely benefit individuals with low income
the most because of the potential to make riding transit more affordable. While there are concentrations of
low-income individuals in certain places, there are individuals with low incomes living across the entire RTD
district.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

As stated above, more benefit may come to those who live close to transit than those who do not.

36

Final Report

1.B.1.a

While people of any demographic could have low income, certain groups may be more vulnerable:
veterans, older adults, individuals with disabilities, minorities, zero car households, and other communities
of concern.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
This recommendation is for an action district wide. There is no anticipation for any disproportionate
impacts or requirements to fall upon any neighborhoods.
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
As previously mentioned, there is a possibility that enrollments can exceed allotted funding. This can be
mitigated by finding additional resources.
4. Does this policy/strategy address historic, systemic, environmental, or institutional barriers that have
impacted this community?
This recommendation can address barriers to providing affordable fares for low-income riders by potentially
making it easier for eligible individuals to enroll in the LiVe program. This provides RTD flexibility to reduce
fares, especially for low-income riders.

Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision and
Operator Retention
This Equity Assessment was completed by the Mile High Connects working group. The overall desired outcome
was to assess the Operations Subcommittee’s proposed recommendation on fixed-routes and paratransit service
provision. The comments and recommendations are offered with an understanding that input was being sought
from community organizations outside of the Committee’s standing process and with limited information on the
background and history of how the recommendation was formulated. The ad-hoc working group reviewed the
Fixed-Route and Paratransit Service Provision and Operator Retention recommendations as a package.

Overall Comments and Strategic Recommendations
•

Be inclusive of people with disabilities throughout the work on this recommendation: The working group
strongly recommends working directly with people with disabilities to listen and center their needs around
accessibility. The working group also encourages clarity around what is meant by “pipeline of accessibility
improvements” that is currently stated in the recommendation.

•

Displacement mitigation: As with other recommendations, the working group encourages RTD to consider
impacts of displacement on low-income communities with expansion and development around transit lines.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?

37

Final Report

Opportunity for RTD to promote its services: The working group sees an opportunity for RTD to continue
expanding promotion of its services.

Equity Assessment: Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision and Operator
Retention Recommendations
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
This recommendation may result in moderate to high benefit to communities of concern as it focuses on
accessibility, multimodal transit options, and service delivery. These elements are central to RTD being more
efficient and increasing ridership. The working group highlighted the importance of including people with
disabilities to offer input on the recommendation on accessibility and to include safety with accessibility and
multimodal considerations. For multimodal and access considerations, language access is important
(multilingual options for apps, way finding in multiple languages).
The working group could not offer recommendations on the operator retention as the recommendations from
the report were not included.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
Benefits of accessibility and infrastructure are focusing on people with disabilities. Burden is the
recommendation may not have included people with disabilities when developing it and safety is not
currently paired with accessibility and infrastructure considerations.
Benefits of multimodal transit options give riders access to last mile solutions. Burden is it may not be
available outside of the urban core, riders with children may not be able to use multimodal options and
riders with disabilities may not be able to use these options, riders where English is not their primary
language may not be able to access and use multimodal options, low-income riders may not be able
to afford multimodal options.
Benefits of transit service is increasing ridership and providing public transit to more communities.
Burden is displacement issues and transit costs for low-income riders, consider offering multimodal
pass (public transit, TNCs).

b. How do we measure this impact?
Survey data on fixed-route and paratransit service provision once changes have been implemented.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
Yes, it may impact low-income communities of color and people with disabilities across all areas of the
recommendations. People with disabilities may not be able to access transit based on what types of

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

•

1.B.1.a

38

Final Report

1.B.1.a

infrastructures and accessibility improvements are made. Low-income riders may be displaced with transit

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
This recommendation affects the entire region therefore an analysis of the demographics of the most
impacted areas is not applicable.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
As the recommendation is currently written, there are no specific neighborhoods required to help
achieve this policy recommendation.
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
People with disabilities may be left out of the development of the accessibility and infrastructure
recommendation and possibly its implementation. Multimodal transit options may not be viable for people
with disabilities, riders with children, low-income riders, and riders who speak a language other than English.
Ways that this can be mitigated is by centering those with disabilities and partnering with multimodal outlets
to ensure accessibility (language, people with disabilities, cost).

Governance Recommendations
This Equity Assessment was completed by the Mile High Connects working group. The overall desired outcome
was to assess the Governance Subcommittee’s proposed recommendations. The comments and
recommendations are offered with an understanding that input was being sought from community organizations
outside of the Committee’s standing process and with limited information on the background and history of how
the recommendation was formulated. The ad-hoc working group reviewed the Governance Executive Leadership
and Subregional Service Council recommendations as a package.

Overall Comments and Strategic Recommendations
•

Board of Directors (BOD): Working group understands that RTD Board is on par with other cities across
the US and that revisions and changes will not happen at this time. However, in the future, it recommends
diversifying Board membership (demographically, lived and professional experience, understanding and
supporting public transit, inclusion of transit and city planners, leaders from local municipalities); proposes a
hybrid model with elected and appointed (clarity around appointing body); and giving consideration to the
size of the Board (7 Board members).

•

Clarify the role of Local Service Councils (LSC): Continue to explore the role recommended LSC’s can
play as potential decision making bodies that are more connected to local communities.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

expansion and riders may continue to not be able to afford transit.

39

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Recommendations
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
This recommendation may result in moderate to high benefit to communities of concern as it focuses on
accessibility, multimodal transit options, and service delivery. These elements are central to RTD being more
efficient and increasing ridership. The working group highlighted the importance of including people with
disabilities to offer input on the recommendation on accessibility and to include safety with accessibility and
multimodal considerations. For multimodal and access considerations, language access is important
(multilingual options for apps, way finding in multiple languages).
The working group could not offer recommendations on the operator retention as the recommendations from
the report were not included.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
Benefits of accessibility and infrastructure are focusing on people with disabilities. Burden occurs
when the recommendation does not have people with disabilities included during the development
process and safety is not currently paired with accessibility and infrastructure considerations.
Benefits of multimodal transit options give riders access to last mile solutions. Burden is it may not be
available outside of the urban core, riders with children may not be able to use multimodal options and
riders with disabilities may not be able to use these options, riders where English is not their primary
language may not be able to access and use multimodal options, low-income riders may not be able
to afford multimodal options.
Benefits of transit service is increasing ridership and providing public transit to more communities.
Burden is displacement issues and transit costs for low-income riders, consider offering multimodal
pass (public transit, TNCs).

b. How do we measure this impact?
Survey data on fixed-route and paratransit service provision once changes have been implemented.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
Yes, it may impact low-income communities of color and people with disabilities across all areas of the
recommendations. People with disabilities may not be able to access transit based on what types of
infrastructures and accessibility improvements are made. Low-income riders may be displaced with transit
expansion and riders may continue to not be able to afford transit.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Equity Assessment: Subregional Service Council and Board of Directors

40

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Not applicable.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
As the recommendation is currently written, there are no specific neighborhoods required to help
achieve this policy recommendation.
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
People with disabilities may be left out of the development of the accessibility and infrastructure
recommendation and possibly its implementation. Multimodal transit options may not be viable for people
with disabilities, riders with children, low-income riders, and riders who speak a language other than English.
Ways that this can be mitigated is by centering those with disabilities and partnering with multimodal outlets
to ensure accessibility (language, people with disabilities, cost).

Transparency and Reporting
This Equity Assessment was completed by the Mile High Connects working group. The overall desired outcome
was to assess the Operations and Finance Subcommittee’s proposed recommendations. The comments and
recommendations are offered with an understanding that input was being sought from community organizations
outside of the Committee’s standing process and with limited information on the background and history of how
the recommendation was formulated. The ad-hoc working group reviewed the reporting metrics and financial
transparency recommendation as a package.

Overall Comments and Strategic Recommendations
•

Transit expansion and community development: As with other recommendations, the working group
continues to highlight the importance of considering displacement and gentrification with the buildout. RTD
should explore the possibility of CLT’s with local municipalities and other policies to ensure low-income
communities can stay in place or access affordable housing.

•

Dashboard: Managing and sustaining metrics and utility: There is a focus on increased transparency by
providing a dashboard, however the working group recognizes that timely updates are necessary. RTD
dedicated staff is necessary to maintaining the dashboard with current metrics. A second imperative is to
ensure the dashboard is accessible, usable, and easy to navigate on the part of the public, advocates,
nonprofits, municipalities, resident groups, and more.

•

Definitions of equity: The working group noticed the broad sweeping definition of equity in the metrics. The
term equality is used, which is different from equity. It is important to define equity consistently. RTD may
want to consider revising this along with including safety in its definition of equity.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?

41

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Recommendations
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
This recommendation may have some benefit to communities of concern. The utility of the dashboard should
be centered if it is to be accessible to a diverse array of constituents, including community residents,
advocates, nonprofits, community groups, municipalities, and more. The recommendation is likely to
increase equity if the dashboard is designed, implemented, and utilized by its intended audiences.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
Benefit to the community is the sharing of data and information equitably along 23 defined metrics
under the following key areas: Operational Effectiveness, Financial Performance, Customer
Experience, Community Engagement, Equity & Accessibility, Environmental Impact, and Safety.
Burden is around the accessibility of the data: data available in multiple languages; literacy;
accessibility to diverse audiences; consistent updating and refreshing of the data.
Benefit of continuing to measure ridership is to gain a better understanding of who is riding, who is
being served through transit. Burden is that it is not considering which communities are not being
served by transit.

b. How do we measure this impact?
The impact of this recommendation would be assessed by garnering data on who is using the
dashboard and their intended purpose for the data/information.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
This recommendation will most likely only be relevant to constituents that are privy to transit; they either work
in the industry or work in an adjacent field or industry that is connected to transit (direct service agency, etc.).
Considerations should be made to broaden the audiences that will use the dashboard.

c. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
Not applicable.

d. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
As the recommendation is currently written, there are no specific neighborhoods that are required to
help achieve the policy recommendation, meaning that all neighborhoods would be required to
achieve the outcome of the recommendation. As this recommendation moves towards

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Equity Assessment: Performance Metrics and Financial Transparency

42

Final Report

1.B.1.a

implementation, it is important to recognize that nonprofits and community-based organizations do not
ease of use and translation of data/metrics for a variety of constituents.
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
The general public may not use the dashboard or understand the metrics. Ensure that a variety of
constituents can use the dashboard in a wide variety of ways. Proactive engagement of different audiences
and soliciting feedback in the development of the dashboard can mitigate the unintended consequences.

Partnerships
This Equity Assessment was completed by the Mile High Connects working group. The overall desired outcome
was to assess the Governance Subcommittee’s proposed recommendations regarding partnerships. The
comments and recommendations are offered with an understanding that input was being sought from community
organizations outside of the Committee’s standing process and with limited information on the background and
history of how the recommendation was formulated.

Overall Comments and Strategic Recommendations
•

Provide clear definitions and guidance: Partnerships, anchor institutions, and other language is used
which may not hold a common definition in the region. Similarly impacted communities are not clearly
defined. The working group offered the environmental justice definition for consideration: Disproportionately
impacted community means a community that is in a census block group, as determined in accordance with
the most recent US decennial census, where the proportion of households that are low-income is greater
than forty percent, the proportion of households that identify as minority is greater than forty percent, or the
proportion of households that are housing cost-burdened is greater than forty percent.

•

Focus on worker dignity: Recognize that shifting service from RTD to mobility service providers will result
in equity as well-paid jobs transition to gig-employment.

•

Expansion of partners: Suggestion to also include schools and service providing organizations as anchor
institutions.

Equity Assessment: Partnership Recommendations
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
The working group noted some of the possible inequities in the proposal to partner with existing mobility
providers. The working group had inquiries around this: How are these providers supporting worker dignity?
Are the mobility service providers accessible to multilingual riders and riders with disabilities?

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

speak for community residents and whether residents will use the dashboard is contingent on the

43

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Benefit is defined as offering expanded service and ridership by partnering with local governments,
centers who have a unique understanding of local mobility needs. Burden is defined as the lack of
inclusion of other institutions such as schools and service organizations as well as consideration of
median incomes in surrounding communities of anchor institutions.

b. How do we measure this impact?
Expand the types of partners that qualify as anchor institutions.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
Working group highlighted the location of anchor institutions may be in middle- and higher-income
neighborhoods and communities, which can lead to inequities in partnerships for low-income neighborhoods
that may not benefit or be included in the partnerships.

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
Working group assumes that demographics around most of the anchor institutions is middle to uppermiddle class, white, English is the primary language, able bodied, etc.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this raise
issues of equity and justice?
Partnership recommendation as written does not explicitly name schools or service providers as
anchor institutions. Including these types of partners may increase equity and access for low-income
communities and communities of color and has the potential to increase ridership.
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
Key partners could be left out of the opportunity for partnership with RTD and mobility service providers may
not be protected as partners with RTD. Expand who is an anchor institution and ensure worker protections.

Fare and Pass Programs
This Equity Assessment was completed by the Mile High Connects working group. The overall desired outcome
was to assess the Committee’s proposed recommendation for streamlining fares and passes. The comments
and recommendations are offered with an understanding that input was being sought from community
organizations outside of the Committee’s standing process and with limited information on the background and
history of how the recommendation was formulated.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

anchor institutions, transportation management organizations (TMOs) and employers or employment

44

Final Report

1.B.1.a

•

Be cautious about centering on large employers and businesses: The focus on the EcoPass raised
inequity concerns for frontline employees that may not have access to the EcoPass in its current form.
Recognize that large employers do not represent the most marginalized, transit-dependent riders.

•

Limit the burden of proof on income-qualified individuals: Requiring low-income individuals to provide
proof of poverty is inequitable as employers are not required to do the same.

•

Offer a free pass for low-income riders: Working group supports this as an option overall to support lowincome riders and increase ridership.

Equity Assessment: Streamlining Fares and Passes Recommendations
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is there likely to be an increase
or decrease in equity?
The recommendation may result in moderate benefit to communities of concern, depending on the
implementation and operationalization of the proposed fare and pass changes. The ad-hoc committee raised
diverse language access, fare capping, and simplifying income verification as an opportunity to increase
equity for all riders on the RTD system, while expansion of the EcoPass in its current form could decrease
equity if it solely focuses on large businesses where equity populations may not hold positions of power.

a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
Benefit is defined as an opportunity to improve equity populations' access to various pass and
fare programs. Burden is defined by the real or perceived challenges to diverse businesses in the
region, recognizing that small to midsize businesses may not have equitable access to transit
passes and fare structures for their employees.

b. How do we measure this impact?
Continue to look at the data of ridership and use of various pass media.
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more than others? If so, which
communities and how?
Working group noted the inequities in affording various fare media and in support of a free fare to
address some of these inequities.

a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
Small/micro-businesses with modest annual revenues will be most impacted by an employer fee.

b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy recommendation? If not, does this
raise issues of equity and justice?

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Overall Comments and Strategic Recommendations

45

Final Report

1.B.1.a

As written, neighborhoods and institutions (businesses, anchor institutions, etc) are equally
within low-income/equity neighborhoods that may bear the burden of additional costs without
resources.
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
The equity working group shared the unintended consequence of bias in current fare evasion practices
by RTD that may impact low-income people of color who are transit-dependent. RTD enforcement may
be unaware of how racism is impacting fare evasion.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

required to help achieve the policy recommendation. This raises issues of equity and justice

Appendices

RTD Accountability Committee

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

46
1.B.1.a

Final Report

Pg. 50
PartPacket
3

Final Report

47

1.B.1.a

Overview
The RTD Accountability Committee released draft recommendations for public review on June 2, 2021. An
online survey was open from June 2 through June 15 and additional public comment was received via email
and at a public hearing held at the June 14 committee meeting.

Survey Responses
A total of 433 responses were received. The survey provided short summaries of the RTD Accountability
Committee’s recommendations, as well as a link to the full draft document detailing the recommendations.
Respondents were asked to rate their level of agreement with each of the summarized recommendations,
and to provide any additional written feedback. This survey is an engagement tool for collecting
feedback from the public; it is not intended to express a scientific, statistically-valid representation
of all of the region’s residents.

Respondents
Most respondents were transit users and lived in Denver or three other counties (Arapahoe, Boulder,
Jefferson).

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Appendix 1: Public Input Summary

Final Report

48

1.B.1.a

In reviewing these survey results it is important to keep in mind that 80% of the respondents considered
population of the Regional Transportation District.

Summary
Most respondents said they strongly agree or agree with all the Accountability Committee’s
recommendations. The degree of support varied by specific recommendation, but respondents generally
expressed support for everything the committee recommends. Respondents agreed most with the
recommendations related to strategies for improving RTD’s service delivery. They agreed least with
recommendations for emphasizing partnerships with local governments, anchor institutions, transportation
management organizations, and employers or employment centers.

Governance
Almost three-quarters (73%) of respondents agreed with the
recommendation to create subregional service councils.
Q1: The Accountability Committee believes RTD should have a more collaborative decision-making
structure to increase input from local communities. As a result, the Committee recommends forming
subregional service councils throughout the RTD service area with representation from the community.
These subregional service councils would have responsibility for developing and recommending “local”
transit service plans for the RTD Board’s consideration. Rate your level of agreement with the
recommendation to create subregional service councils.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

themselves to be transit users, a proportion considerably higher than would be found in the general

Strongly agree

Agree

36.45%

36.45%

156

156

Neither agree nor
disagree
12.15%
52

Disagree
6.78%

Strongly disagree
29

8.18%

35

1.B.1.a

Weighted
Average
3.86

Summary of written comments
Comments related to subregional councils are presented in the appendix. Some common themes included:
•

Support for having more local input

•

Some comments about the councils being unnecessary, adding a layer of bureaucracy, references to
issues with Board structure

•

Concerns about whether the recommendations of the councils will impact decision-making

•

Questions about membership, who is included on councils, how they are chosen

•

Questions about boundaries and organization of the councils

Operations
Over eight in ten (84%) of respondents said they agreed with the idea of
simplifying fares and pass programs, with over half (57%) strongly agreeing.
However, several respondents wrote comments opposing a “per-employee”
transportation fee.
Q2: RTD's fare structure and pass programs are complex and can be difficult to navigate. Also, RTD fares
are some of the highest in the country. The RTD Accountability Committee recommends simplifying fares
and pass programs and making them more affordable to improve the customer experience and increase
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

49

Final Report

50

Final Report

1.B.1.a

•

Consolidating all discounts into a free (or at least highly discounted) fare that would cover youth, senior,
disabled, and low-income populations.

•

Identifying strategies to simplify and incentivize pass structures, such as making EcoPass available to
every employee in the district through a monthly, per employee transportation fee assessed on
employers.

•

Pursuing public-private partnerships with local communities and employers to provide free rides on
circulator vehicles for neighborhoods a mile or more from transit stations to connect folks most in need
of connections to public transit.

Rate your level of agreement with the recommendation to simplify fares and pass programs.

Strongly agree

Agree

57.42%

26.32%

240

110

Neither agree nor
disagree
6.70%
28

Disagree
4.31%

18

Strongly
disagree
5.26%

22

Weighted
Average
4.26

Summary of written comments
Comments related to operations are presented in the appendix. Some common themes included:
•

Concerns about assessing employers, but also comments expressing support

•

Support for simplification of fees

•

Examples of fee structures in other cities

•

Concerns about cost

•

Some comments against free fares, other comments expressing support for free fares

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

ridership by:

51

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Over eight in ten respondents agreed with the recommendations, and less
than 5% disagreed.
Q3: The RTD Accountability Committee recommends the following strategies to improve RTD's service
delivery. Please rate your level of agreement with the recommended strategies.

Work with local governments
and large employers to
coordinate land use and
transportation planning.
Improve accessibility and
infrastructure of stations
and bus stops.
Ensure transit stations have
diverse mobility options to
provide riders last-mile
connections to their
destination.
Prioritize frequent transit users
in any service redesign efforts.

Strongly
agree

Agree

Disagree

Strongly
disagree

Weighted
Average

35.78%

Neither
agree nor
disagree
6.37%

53.68%

2.70%

1.47%

4.38

50.86%

34.89%

12.04%

0.98%

1.23%

4.33

53.56%

29.98%

11.79%

2.21%

2.46%

4.3

50.49%

31.28%

12.56%

3.94%

1.72%

4.25

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Service

52

Final Report

47.17%

33.66%

15.48%

2.95%

0.74%

4.24

Summary of written comments
Comments related to service are presented in the appendix. Some common themes included:
•

Emphasis on need to restore service

•

Focus on improving user experience and safety

•

Some differing opinions about focusing on frequent riders, increasing overall ridership, or focusing on
improvements for disabled riders

•

Acknowledgment of the important link between land use and transportation, but some questions about
the role of RTD and local governments

•

Improving first and last-mile connections, including by bike

•

Service improvements, such as availability, frequency, reliability, will increase ridership

Northwest Rail/Unfinished FasTracks
Nearly three-quarters (72%) of respondents agreed with the idea of focusing
on bus rapid transit until adequate funding is identified for the Northwest Rail
line, with 42% of those strongly agreeing. However, 15% opposed this
recommendation.
Q4: Due to a heavy debt burden, RTD cannot afford to begin construction on the promised northwest rail
line from Denver through Boulder to Longmont at this time. The RTD Accountability Committee recommends
that until adequate funding can be found for this project, RTD should focus on significantly expanding Bus
Rapid Transit services like the existing Flatiron Flyer, including direct service to Longmont and other
Northwest Corridor communities by 2026 while continuing to pursue longer-term plans for the completion of
Northwest Rail.
Rate your level of agreement with the recommendation to focus on Bus Rapid Transit until adequate funding
is identified for the northwest rail line.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Designate easily accessible
space at RTD bus and rail
stations for individuals with
disabilities to access services
such as taxis, Uber/Lyft and
other transportation providers.

1.B.1.a

Strongly agree

Agree

43.03%

29.35%

173

118

Neither agree nor
disagree

Disagree

12.44%

6.22%

50

Strongly
disagree
25

8.96%

1.B.1.a

Weighted
Average
36

3.91

Summary of written comments
Comments related to Northwest Rail/Unfinished Fastracks are presented in the appendix. Some common
themes included:
•

Many commenters expressed support for the BRT

•

Frequent references to the lack of ridership/demand, which makes BRT a better solution

•

Many comments about the rail having been promised, funding should be found to get it done

•

Comments about other unfinished tracks, geographic equity

•

Some concerns about funding BRT taking funding or momentum/need from eventual rail

COVID-19 Relief Funding
Almost eight in ten (79%) of respondents agreed with the idea of using
COVID-19 relief funds to restore transit services, attract new and returning
riders, and help the agency recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Fewer
than 8% were opposed.
Q5: RTD has received over $770 million in federal COVID-19 relief funds since 2020. The RTD
Accountability Committee recommends that RTD use a substantial portion of these funds to restore transit

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

53

Final Report

54

Final Report

1.B.1.a

services, attract new and returning riders, and help the agency recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Rate

Strongly agree

Agree

48.26%

30.60%

194

123

Neither agree nor
disagree

Disagree

13.43%

4.23%

54

Strongly
disagree
17

3.48%

Weighted
Average
14

4.16

Summary of written comments
Comments related to relief funding are presented in the appendix. Some common themes included:
•

Support focus on increasing ridership

•

Many comments about the need to restore service

•

Location-specific comments about which routes to restore, several comments noting that funding should
be used for northwest rail

•

Recommendations to use funds for hiring incentives, hiring/retaining workforce, recruiting, increased
wages for RTD employees

•

Many comments about necessity of this recommendation, question about whether this is already
required

Partnerships
All recommendations for partnerships received over 66% support from
respondents, with first/last mile partnerships leading with 84%.
Q6: In order to improve service efficiency and grow ridership, the Accountability Committee believes RTD
should emphasize partnerships with local governments, anchor institutions, transportation management
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

your level of agreement with the recommendation for use of relief funds.

55

Final Report

1.B.1.a

organizations, and employers or employment centers who have a unique understanding of local mobility

Rate your level of agreement with the following recommended strategies:

Pilot first/last mile projects to
build ridership, especially
among disadvantaged
communities.
Incentivize communities to
enter cost-sharing
arrangements to provide new
or existing local transit
solutions.
Collaborate with existing
mobility service providers (e.g.,
Via, Uber, Lyft) in areas where
traditional fixed route service
may not be the most
appropriate mobility solution.
Develop a competitive
Innovation Grant program to
drive bold ideas to increase
ridership.

Strongly
agree
51.38%

Agree

Disagree

32.58%

Neither agree
nor disagree
9.02%

2.51%

Strongly
disagree
4.51%

Weighted
Average
4.24

42.17%

37.37%

13.38%

4.80%

2.27%

4.12

35.34%

36.84%

17.54%

5.76%

4.51%

3.93

32.83%

33.33%

22.56%

5.51%

5.76%

3.82

Summary of written comments
Comments related to partnerships are presented in the appendix. Some common themes included:
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

needs.

•

Some skepticism or hesitation about partnering with private companies

•

RTD should focus on service restoration and improvements

1.B.1.a

Transparency and Reporting
Respondents showed overwhelming support (87%) with over half of those
strongly in support of providing prominent, accessible, and easy-tounderstand financial and performance information on the RTD website.
Q7: The RTD Accountability Committee recommends that RTD provide prominent, accessible and easy-tounderstand financial and performance information on its website for the public, stakeholders, partners, and
elected officials. Rate your level of agreement with this recommendation:

Strongly agree

Agree

53.37%

33.17%

214

133

Neither agree nor
disagree

Disagree

10.72%

1.75%

43

Strongly
disagree
7

1.00%

Weighted
Average
4

4.36

Summary of written comments
Comments related to transparency and reporting are presented in the appendix. Some common themes
included:
•

Generally expressing support

•

Some statements that this is unnecessary or already done

•

Prefer focus on improving service rather than funding this

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

56

Final Report

Final Report

57

1.B.1.a

Q8: If you reviewed the document describing the full set of recommendations in addition to the summaries
provided in this survey, do you have any additional feedback you'd like to provide?

Summary of written comments
A wide range of topics were covered, but there were several comments on:
•

Need to focus on improving service

•

Support for recommendations, but questions about how they will be funded

•

Questions about why there are no recommendations for changes to Board structure

Written Comments Received
In addition to the survey, several emails were received with additional feedback. Many of these comments
were supportive of the recommendations with some additional questions or points of concern noted. The
emails, along with commentary received through the survey, can be reviewed here.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Full Set of Recommendations

58

1.B.1.a

Appendix 2: Transportation Funding Proposal
Letter
April 15, 2021
Dear Senators Winter and Fenberg and Representatives Gray and Garnett,
Thank you for your ongoing leadership in working to solve Colorado’s transportation challenges. As
members of the RTD Accountability Committee (RTDAC) that you and Governor Polis created last year,
we’d like to provide you with input on your transportation funding proposal. In particular, we would like to
express our strong recommendation that the draft legislation be amended to include additional funding for
transit and other multimodal transportation options.
As you know the RTDAC was created to provide recommendations on how RTD could improve its
operations to help achieve better and more equitable service, expand ridership and improve the Agency’s
financial sustainability. Our nine months of analysis and inquiry have confirmed our understanding that
transit systems like RTD’s deliver multiple critical benefits to the region and state beyond those directly
experienced by those who use bus and rail, making them an appropriate and necessary recipient of
increased public investment.
Transit contributes to the state and regional economy by providing mobility for Coloradans traveling to and
from their workplace, school, shopping, medical appointments, recreational opportunities and cultural
events, as well as serving out of town visitors. Public transit systems represent an affordable and equitable
mobility option for older adults, people with disabilities and youth who cannot drive, as well as community
members who cannot afford to own a car. By providing an alternative to single-occupant vehicle travel,
transit helps reduce traffic congestion for those who do drive cars. Transit systems are also a key solution to
reducing the air pollution that degrades our public health, generates the brown cloud that mars our world
class views, and drives our region’s serious non-attainment status for meeting the Clean Air Act’s ozone
standard. Similarly, significantly increasing ridership on buses and rail lines is necessary to meet the state’s
climate targets set in House Bill 19-1261; Governor Polis’ Climate Roadmap sets a goal of 10% reduction in
vehicle miles travelled by 2030, which is not possible with only modest levels of multimodal investment.
Conversely, increasing funding for roadway expansion as the primary means to address Colorado’s mobility
challenges will further exacerbate our ozone and climate emission woes, undermine our investments in
transit, and ultimately increase congestion through induced demand.
Consequently, while we greatly appreciate that your draft proposal includes new multimodal funding for
transit and funding for transit electrification, we believe it doesn’t go far enough. The RTDAC urges you to
provide comparable investment between multimodal transportation options and road infrastructure spending
by significantly increasing monies in the Multimodal Options Fund and Non-Attainment Fund, so that
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

Final Report

59

1.B.1.a

Coloradans can enjoy improved transit service, and local communities can improve first and final mile bike

Overall, Colorado contributes significantly less money to its transit agencies than other states. According to
the FTA’s 2019 National Transit Database, in Colorado, the state funded only 0.33% of transit operating
costs and 2.59% of transit capital costs in 2019, compared to the much higher national average of 23% and
23%, respectively.
While we applaud CDOT’s effort and commitment to outreach in developing of the 10 Year Plan, we do not
believe the Plan has enough funding for transit projects, especially in the Denver metro area. CDOT’s 10
Year Plan lists $4.9 billion worth of transportation projects with less than 9% for transit. With more than half
the state’s population living in less than 8% of its land area, the Denver metro-area offers the best
opportunity to replace driving trips with transit and other clean transportation modes. To cut transportation
pollution and improve system efficiency, Colorado must invest heavily in transit service where we have the
highest concentration of people and jobs.
DRCOG identified 10 Bus-Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in their 2050 MetroVision. Each of these projects
were selected through an extensive vetting process in RTD’s 2019 BRT Feasibility Study based on their
ability to generate ridership, improve equity, reduce emissions, and improve connectivity and access. Yet
the 10 Year Plan lists and just partially funds a few of these projects. CDOT’s 10 Year Plan should include
significant funding to complete all 10 Bus-Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the DRCOG region by 2030,
projects that align with state and regional transportation goals to reduce congestion and pollution, while
improving safety, equitable, and affordability.
We also believe it is essential that the legislation state explicitly that HUTF dollars can be spent on transit
operating and maintenance costs, which can help create a more sustainable funding stream for ongoing
transit operations in communities around the state. Additional transit service along existing transit routes
would dramatically improve access to jobs for millions of Coloradans, especially in the Denver metro area.
For example, according to the Transit Center, a 40% increase in RTD transit service – about $74 million per
year – would allow Denver residents to access four times more jobs in a 30-minute transit commute.
Thank you again for your leadership and your willingness to consider our comments.
Sincerely,

RTD Accountability Committee:
Elise Jones, Co-Chair
Crystal Murillo, Co-Chair
Dan Blankenship
Rutt Bridges
Chris Frampton
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

and pedestrian connections and microtransit opportunities to help users easily access those transit systems.

Jackie Millet
Julie Mullica
Krystin Trustman
Deya Zavala

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

60
1.B.1.a

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 64

61

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Federal Transit Administration Provision Summary
For ‘‘Transit Infrastructure Grants’’, $14,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare
for, and respond to coronavirus.
Provisions
$13,271,310,572 for grants to recipients eligible under
chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, and administered
as if such funds were provided under section 5307 and
section 5337 of title 49, except that funds apportioned under
section 5337 shall be added to funds apportioned under
5307 for administration under 5307.
• Funds allocated in the same ratio as funds were
providedunder Further Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2020.
• Funds to be allocated not later than 30 days
afterenactment.
• The total of these funds plus previous CARES Act
allocations to any urbanized area may not exceed 75%
ofthat urbanized area’s 2018 operating costs based on
datacontained in the National Transit Database.
• For urbanized areas exceeding 75%, the funds in
excessof 75% will be redistributed to urbanized areas
not exceeding 75%.
No recipient in an urbanized area may receive more than $4
billion from this Act and the CARES Act combined, until 75%
of the funds provided to the recipient are obligated and only
after the recipient certifies that the use of such funds in
excess of $4 billion is necessary to prevent layoffs or
furloughs directly related to demonstrated revenue losses
directly attributable to COVID-19.

$5,034,973 for grants to recipients or subrecipients eligible
under section 5310 of title 49.

$678,654,455 for grants to recipients or
subrecipients eligible under section 5311 of title 49.
• The amounts allocated to any State for rural operating
costs under this heading when combined with CARES
Actfunding may not exceed 125% of that State’s
combined 2018 rural operating costs of the recipients

Comments

These funds will be apportioned in
accordance with section 5307
(urbanized area formula grant
program) and section 5337 (state of
good repair grant formula program),
except that the portion calculated
under section 5337 will be combined
with the section 5307 amountand
administered under section 5307.
RTD’s reported 2018 operating costs
were $663.8 million; 75% is $497.8
million.RTD received $232 million
under the CARES Act and may
receive approximately $130 million
under this Act, for a total of $362
million.
Therefore, RTD should not be
limited.

DRCOG is the designated recipient
for these grants for Enhanced
Mobility of Seniors & Individuals with
Disabilitiesin the Denver-Aurora
urbanized area. CDOT administers
the program for areas in the
DRCOG region outside of the
Denver-AuroraUrbanized Area
(Boulder, Louisville-Lafayette, and
Longmont) and areas outsideof
urbanized areas. mostly on
the plains and in the foothills.
These are grants to States for Rural
Transit and Intercity Bus. They are
administered byCDOT.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Appendix 3: COVID Relief Funding

and subrecipients in the State based on data contained
in theNational Transit Database.
• For States exceeding 125%, the funds in excess of
125%will be redistributed to States not exceeding 125%.
Funds provided under this heading in this Act are available
for the operating expenses of transit agencies related to the
response to a COVID–19 public health emergency,
including, beginning on January 20, 2020, reimbursement for
operatingcosts to maintain service and lost revenue due to
the COVID–19 public health emergency, including the
purchase of personal protective equipment, and paying the
administrative leave of operations or contractor personnel
due to reductions in service.
• to the maximum extent possible, funds made available
under this heading in this Act and in title XII of division
Bof the CARES Act (Public Law 116–136; 134 Stat.
599) shall be directed to payroll and operations of
public transit (including payroll and expenses of private
providers of public transportation), unless the recipient
certifies to the Secretary that the recipient has not
furloughed any employees.
• such operating expenses are not required to be
includedin a transportation improvement program, longrange transportation plan, statewide transportation
plan, or a statewide transportation improvement
program.
• private providers of public transportation shall be
considered eligible subrecipients of funding
providedunder this heading.
• the Federal share of the costs for which any grant is
made under this heading in this Act shall be, at the
option of the recipient, up to 100 percent.

62

1.B.1.a

To the maximum extent possible,
funds shall be usedfor payroll and
public transitoperations – unless
the recipient certifies that they
have not furloughed any
employees.
These expenses are not required to
be in DRCOG’s TIPor Regional
Transportation Plan.
RTD can use funds to pay
private providers of public
transportation.
A non-federal match is notrequired for
these funds.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

Final Report

63

1.B.1.a

As part of its assessment of RTD governance, the RTD Accountability Governance Subcommittee,
commissioned its contractor, North Highland, to undertake a high-level comparative analysis of RTD’s Board
structure with other peer entities’ Boards. The RTD Accountability Governance Subcommittee requested an
independent assessment to identify external structures that may improve the RTD Board’s effectiveness.
The following provides a summary of findings. The full report can be viewed here. Findings include:
•

RTD’s term durations are on par with peer agencies.

•

Comparatively, the RTD Board’s compensation is on par with peer agencies.

•

The RTD Board is on par with its peers as it relates to transparency and public participation.

•

RTD is unique to this peer group in that Board Members are elected.

•

It is unclear if the size of the Board is comparable to its peers.

•

Approaches to regional/subregional Board representation vary among peer agencies.

Regional Transportation District Board
The Regional Transportation District supports 40 municipalities and is the primary transit provider for Denver
and its surrounding areas, including the Counties of Boulder, Broomfield, Denver, and Jefferson, and parts of
Adams, Arapahoe, Douglas, and Weld Counties. RTD provides bus, light rail, demand response, and
commuter rail services. The RTD Board is structured as follows:
•

Board Size / Scope: The RTD Board is composed of 15 members serving 8 counties and 40
municipalities. RTD provides bus, light rail, demand response, and commuter rail services.

•

Board Selection: Members are publicly elected and serve four-year terms.

•

Structure: RTD Board Committees include the Executive Committee; General Manger Oversight and
Performance Management Committee, Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee, Finance,
Administration, and Audit Committee; Operations/Customer Service Committee, Communications and
Government Relations Committee; and Ad-Hoc Committees as appropriate.

•

Community Representation: Each Board member represents a particular district in an effort to provide
equal representation and encourage equity among all Board activities.

•

Compensation: Board members are compensated $12,000 per year plus any expenses incurred.

•

Transparency: The Board must provide notice of all meeting types to the public at least 24 hours prior
to a meeting being held. Agendas, documents, and video of past meetings are available online. Board
meetings are open to the public and include an opportunity for public comment. Committee meetings are
open to the public but do not allow a period for public participation.

RTD conducts staggered elections so that eight seats are open for one election, followed by seven available
seats in the next election. The Board holds regular meetings once a month, special meetings as called by the

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Appendix 4: RTD Governance Evaluation

Final Report

64

1.B.1.a

Board or the Chair when necessary, annual Board planning meetings, study sessions as needed at the
vote of at least eight Directors. The Board must provide notice of all meeting types to the public at least 24
hours prior. Agendas, documents, and video of past meetings are available online.
Outside of the Board activities, RTD's community practices provide opportunities for anyone in the area to
become involved by simply staying informed, or engaging further by sharing their voice, becoming a partner,
or engaging with RTD. The public also can participate in town halls, comment on proposed service changes,
submit a project feedback form, or contact a director or customer care agent. Additionally, the public can act
as a partner by serving on an advisory committee or participating in pilot programs and market research; and
further engagement is encouraged through presentations by RTD staff and participation in the RTD transit
experience.

Information for Selected Peer Agencies
North Highland reviewed the documentation available regarding Board structures for the selected peer
agencies. This included (where available) Board bylaws, meeting minutes, legislation, resolutions, and
manuals as available.
The gathered information provided sufficient detail to assess RTD’s Board in comparison with peer Agencies
along several dimensions discussed below. Peer agencies included: Utah Transit Authority (UTA), Dallas Area
Rapid Transit (DART), Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District of Oregon (TriMet), San Diego
Metropolitan Transportation System (MTS), Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA),
King County Department of Metro Transit (King County Metro), Washington Metropolitan Transit Authority
(WMATA), Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit), and Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LA METRO).

Findings
The information collected enabled North Highland to compare RTD’s Board structure with that of peer
agencies. In some respects, RTD’s Board structure is on par with peer agencies, yet there are some marked
differences between agencies. These findings are detailed further below.

Commonalities with other Boards
RTD’s term durations are on par with peer agencies
All ten agencies evaluated posed term durations either ranging from one to five years, or whose
appointment coincides with the term of their appointer. For those agencies with defined durations, a term
duration of nearly three years was the average. With term durations of four years, RTD appears to be on par
with its peers. Additionally, RTD staggers terms, such that the full Board does not turn over at one time.
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

beginning of each year, public meetings, and executive sessions. Any Board action requires an affirmative

65

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Many Board bylaws reflected the importance of continuity, in which case, RTD also appears to be

Comparatively the RTD’s Board compensation is on par with peer agencies
While many of the Boards evaluated in this assessment are compensated according to the number of
meetings attended (ranging from $0 to $200), the RTD Board is compensated at an annual rate of $12,000
per year (or $1,000 per month) as detailed in Table 1: Board Member Compensation. When examining the
RTD Board calendar, it is possible that members could be attending a handful of meetings, to up to eight
meetings per month. At eight meetings per month with compensation of $125 per meeting places RTD
Board compensation on par with its peers.
Peer Agency

Compensation

RTD (Denver, CO)

$12,000 per year + expenses

UTA (Salt Lake City, UT)

N/A 12

DART (Dallas, TX)

$50.00 per meeting + expenses

TriMet (Portland, OR)

Board members are volunteers

MTS (San Diego, CA)

$150 + expenses per meeting
$1,500 monthly for chairperson

SEPTA (Philadelphia, PA)

Expenses only

King County Metro (Seattle, WA)

N/A 13

VIA (San Antonio, TX)

$50.00 per meeting

WMATA (Washington, DC)

$200 per day + expenses

Sound Transit (Seattle, WA)

$100 per day + expenses 14

LA Metro (Los Angeles, CA)

$150 for one business day, not
more than $600 per month

Table 1: Board Member Compensation

The RTD Board is on par with its peers as it relates to transparency and public
participation
The agencies included in this assessment shared similar practices of transparency in that all peer agency
Board meetings are open to the public (executive sessions are largely closed) and materials are posted
12 Board members are compensated as fulltime employees, including benefits

13 Board members consist of elected county commissioners, whose service to the King County Metro Board
is a job responsibility
14 Unless the Board member is a full-time government employee

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

incorporating best practice.

Final Report

66

1.B.1.a

online. Posted materials include Board agenda, minutes, packets/presentations, and video of the
to be no time constraint on sharing these materials. This indicates RTD’s practices are on par with peer
agencies in transparency.
The RTD Board approach for public participation includes a public comment period as a part of the Board
meeting agendas. This is consistent with all agencies evaluated. The time allotted for public comment
varies, from no time constraint to as few as 15 minutes. Many Boards pose a time limit on individuals (such
as two or three minutes) in place of limiting the time allotted on the agenda. Both WMATA and Sound
Transit also allow individuals to provide written comments that are read at Board meetings.

Unique aspects of peer agency board structures
RTD is unique to this peer group in that Board Members are elected
Of the ten peer agencies evaluated, only RTD has elected Board Members. With the exception of King
Country Transit, which is governed by elected County Commissioners, all other agencies’ Board members
are appointed. Appointees may or may not be elected officials. Appointments often reflect the
regional/subregional model by which agencies are represented. For example, agencies governed at the
county or state levels are often appointed by the State Governor or legislative bodies. In other cases, district
models, similar to the approach at RTD, are leveraged, yet Board Members are appointed, often under the
requirement that the member live in the district they represent.
While the review of these peer agencies did not find publicly elected Boards, it should be noted this is a
practice for Boards at other transit properties. Specifically, both Bay Area Rapid Transit 15 (BART, in San
Francisco, California) and Alameda-Contra Costa Transit District 16 (AC Transit, in Oakland California)
publicly elect Board members.

It is unclear if the size of the Board is comparable to its peers
Best practice shows that as governing Boards grow in size the efficacy of their work decreases. When
evaluating Board size, RTD’s peer agencies average 11.6 Board members wherein RTD’s Board is
comprised of 15 members, indicating the RTD may be large in comparison with its peers. Other agencies
with similar Board representation include DART, MTS, SEPTA, and LA Metro. It should be noted however,
that both DART and MTS Board members represent the smallest area and the smallest number of
constituents (see Table 2: Board Member Representation Analysis), indicating these agencies may have a
disproportionately large Board. When comparing member representation per square mile only two other
properties, UTA and King County Metro, have Board members representing more square miles. However,
15 BART Board of Directors Filing Period
16 AC Transit Letter to Candidates

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

proceedings. With the exception of Sound Transit, where materials are shared for six months, there seemed

67

Final Report

1.B.1.a

when comparing member representation to service area population size, six other properties represent more
inconsistent and thus it is unclear if the size of the RTD Board is comparable to its peer agencies.
Property

Board

Service Area

Service Area

Members/

Members/

Members

Population

Sq. Miles

Person

Sq. Mile

RTD

15

2,920,000

2,342

194,667

156.13

UTA

3

1,883,504

737

627,835

245.67

DART

15

2,407,830

698

160,522

46.53

TriMet

7

1,565,010

383

223,573

54.71

MTS

15

2,462,707

720

164,180

48.00

SEPTA

15

3,426,793

839

228,453

55.93

King County

10

2,149,970

2,134

214,997

213.40

VIA

11

1,986,049

1,213

180,550

110.27

WMATA

8

3,719,567

950

464,946

118.75

Sound

18

3,158,800

1,087

175,489

60.39

LA Metro

14

8,621,928

1,469

615,852

104.93

Average 17

11.6

3,138,216

1,023

305,640

105.0

Metro

Transit

Table 2: Board Member Representation Analysis

Approaches to regional/subregional representation vary
In reviewing how Board membership relates to geographic representation, models across the Boards
included in this assessment varied with little consistency as shown in Table 3: Regional Representation
Approach. In the classification outlined below, a regional model indicates representation at the county or
state level, while a subregional classification indicates representation at a district or municipality level. Other
agencies, however, deploy a hybrid approach, with both regional representation and local level
representation either with municipalities or established districts/regions. In most cases, representatives are
required to live within the district or region they represent.
Property

Representation Approach

Representation
Classification

RTD

Each Board member represents a particular district

Subregional

17 The average represents the average of peer agencies, and thus excludes RTD.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

people, and RTD falls more than 110,000 members per person below the average. These numbers are

68

Final Report

UTA

One member represents Salt Lake County while

1.B.1.a

Regional

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

the two other members represent two counties
each
DART

Board members represent either one or two

Subregional

municipalities proportional to the ratio as the
population of the area served
TriMet

Consists of representation from seven regions

Subregional

MTS

Board members representatives consist of county

Hybrid

and local municipalities
SEPTA

Two members from each county in the service

Regional

area, state representation
King County Metro
VIA

County representation

Regional

Four Board members represent municipalities,

Hybrid

three members represent the county
WMATA

State, District of Columbia (local representation),

Hybrid

and Federal representation
Sound Transit

Representation at the county level with one state

Reginal

appointee
LA Metro

Seven Districts, county representation

Hybrid

Table 3: Regional Representation Approach

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 72

1.B.1.a

Appendix 5: FasTracks Analysis by the Finance
Subcommittee
The B Line / NW Rail Conundrum
RTD is facing the most severe
financial challenge in its history.
The promises made 17 years ago
when Colorado voters approved
FasTracks were based on
projections for sales tax revenues
that were stunted by the Great
Recession and have recently once
again been depressed by the
COVID crisis. Meanwhile, the
original estimated cost of the B
Line has tripled to $1.5-1.7 billion,
while the pandemic has driven
FasTracks ridership down to a
third of what it was in 2019. And
the cost will likely be significantly
higher by 2042.
The taxpayers from Broomfield to
Boulder to Longmont are justifiably
angry that the service they were promised by 2017 is now being projected for 2042—two decades into an
uncertain future. They are demanding a solution from a transit agency that has been financially forced to cut
its services by 40% over the past year. There is lots of heat on this issue, but not a lot of light. Here are
alternatives RTD is currently considering:
RTD collaboration with Front Range Passenger Rail: One of the three proposed routes for prospective
$2 billion Front Range Passenger Rail follows the path of the B Line. Unfortunately, it would only stop at
Union Station, Boulder, and Longmont and would be limited to only two to six round trips per day. The full
vision for Front Range Passenger Rail projected 20 to 30 years out is estimated to cost between eight and
fourteen billion dollars. By comparison, in 2018, the sum of all taxes paid to the state totaled less than $11
billion. Given Colorado voters’ history of rejecting transportation funding initiatives that asked for a fraction of
that funding—and for highways, not a visionary rail project—it is hard not to be skeptical.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

69

Final Report

Final Report

70

1.B.1.a

B Line rush-hour only service: RTD is considering a rush-hour only service that would cost $708 million
disgruntled parties. But more importantly, the economic justification of such an investment is shaky at best.
Note that workdays with rush hours = 52 x 5 - 10 for holidays = 250 rush-hour days per year. The average
estimate for annual operating and maintenance cost is $13.5 million (RTD Board NW Rail Study Session,
2/9/21, page 43). Unfortunately, RTD must bond and pay interest on every major project it builds. Based on
a 30-year useful life and a 30-year bond, here is the math:
•

Financing $708 million at 2% interest over 30 years: total principal plus interest cost is $1,132 million.

•

Transit cost per year = $13.5 million/year + ($1,132 million ÷ 30 years) = $51.23 million per year

•

$51,230,000/year ÷ (1600 trips/day x 250 days/year) = $128 per trip

Even if the net fare revenue after pass discounts was $4, which is $8 round-trip—a high estimate—RTD’s
net cost per ride would still be $124, an irrationally high subsidy.
The economics of the B Line extension: RTD’s latest estimates for B Line ridership is 5,400 per weekday
by the target year 2035. They have also estimated weekend ridership at half of weekday ridership. So, we
can estimate annual ridership as 5,400 x 52 x (5+½+½) =1,684,800 boardings per year. We’ll use a 30-year
useful life and the 2019 RTD Draft Initial Unfinished Corridors Report (page 5), estimated annual operating
and maintenance cost for the B Line extension of $20,600,000 per year. At an estimated $1.5 billion
construction cost and a 30-year bond, here is the math:
•

Financing $1.5 billion at 2% interest over 30 years: total principal plus interest cost is $2.4 billion.

•

Transit cost per year = $20.6 million/year + ($2,400 million ÷ 30 years) = $100.6 million per year

•

$100,600,000/year ÷ 1,684,800 trips/year = $59.71 per trip

After pass discounts, the 2019 RTD rail service average boarding fare was $2.08, so RTD’s net cost
per boarding would be about $57.63. At 1,684,800 trips per year, that would add a new $97 million
unfunded yearly obligation to RTD’s annual budget. Given that RTD’s 2020 Amended Budget for
FasTracks Operations (Exhibit 1, Page 3) shows revenue from FasTracks Sales Tax ($135M) and Use
Tax ($15M) that total only $150 million, it is not clear how RTD could afford this extra $97 million per
year—especially with existing annual FasTracks Project interest expenses already totaling $152
million (Exhibit 1, Page 2). This is simply not an economically sustainable obligation for RTD.
Conclusion: The Legislature and the Governor charged the RTD Accountability Committee with ensuring
the long-term economic viability of RTD. It is doubtful that any of these three “solutions” accomplish that
goal, at least until most of RTD’s FasTracks debt can be paid off. Waiting 20+ years for rail service is a nonstarter. We would welcome anyone’s ideas and suggestions and would sincerely appreciate hearing about
any errors you see in this analysis or any challenges to this approach to accounting for costs.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

but serve only about 800 people (1600 trips per day). It seems doubtful that this would satisfy many of the

71

1.B.1.a

Appendix 6: RTD to Evaluate Potential BRT
Benefits
Recommendation: RTD should evaluate the validity of the suggested benefits
of a BRT solution and respond to the RTD Accountability Committee.
There are encouraging signs that NW Rail may benefit from a partnership with Front Range Passenger Rail
(FRPR). FRPR hopes to obtain a significant part of the project cost from US DOT/Amtrak for train service
from Trinidad to Fort Collins and beyond. A bill in the Legislature is also seeking to create a special taxing
district along the planned path of FRPR to seek funding through a ballot initiative—a process similar to
FasTracks. The goal is a 100+ mph train costing between $8 to $14 billion, though it may begin with a
smaller-scale proof of concept. The hope is that this would be a Denver-Boulder-Longmont rail line. This
choice could potentially accelerate the delivery of NW Rail. The BNSF (Burlington Northern Santa Fe) rightof-way would be used, with BNSF building the rail at a cost yet to be determined.
If built, it will hopefully follow a path along the planned route of NW Rail. If so, RTD might be able to use the
same tracks for NW Rail. However, FRPR would only stop at Union Station, Boulder, and Longmont. RTD
would need to pay to add railroad sidings at five other stations along the way: Westminster, Church Ranch,
Flatiron, Louisville, and Gunbarrel.
As an interim step in the process, the RTD Board has approved an $8M study of a rush-hour-only service.
This study will begin at the end of 2021 and should be completed by 2024. This initial study would need to
be followed by a complete Environmental Impact Statement before final construction design, leasing, and
planning. The eventual rail project would be a partnership among FRPR, BNSF, CDOT, Amtrak, RTD, Army
Corps of Engineers, Federal Railroad Administration, Federal Transit Administration, and Northwest Corridor
communities. Here is a flow chart of RTD’s Implementation Needs Summary for the NW Rail Project:

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

1.B.1.a

However, given the operational, political, economic, and other risks inherent to a complex project such as
this, it is difficult to estimate the date at which NW Rail passenger service might begin. Given the time frame,
it seems prudent to consider and evaluate the alternative option of expanding existing Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) services while pursuing developments on NW Rail. Note that the recommended BRT solutions are
based on the Northwest Area Mobility Study and the work of subsequent groups such as Commuting
Solutions and the Northwest Mayors and Commissioners Coalition.
We request that RTD specifically respond to each of the following claims. Then, if enough of the
claims have merit, the RTD Board, in partnership with the Governor, CDOT, and various
communities and organizations representing the Northwest Corridor, can decide whether to pursue
a BRT solution while awaiting developments on NW Rail.
Here are the six specific claims, followed by the supporting documentation for each:
Compared to NW Rail, a BRT solution will:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Deliver services a decade or more sooner than rail.
Better accommodate future growth than rail.
Be far less expensive to implement than rail.
Be far less expensive to operate than rail.
Be far less expensive to maintain than rail.
Be far less of a threat to RTD’s future financial stability.

Of course, if everything goes smoothly with FRPR, NW Rail might also be available within the next decade
or so. But BRT is now and is low risk.
Here is a brief discussion of the justification for each of these claims.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

72

Final Report

73

1.B.1.a

1. A BRT solution will deliver services a decade or more sooner than
rail.
Claim: Already done, since RTD’s Flatiron Flyer BRT (FF BRT) began operations January 3, 2016,
and has already served millions of riders a year.
In 2019, the FF BRT provided 3.37 million boardings (see RTD Service Performance 2019, Networked
Family of Services, page 19, Route FF). That is twice the RTD staff’s projected 2035 NW Rail boardings.
Note that RTD estimated 5,400 NW Rail weekday boardings by 2035 in their RTD Board NW Rail Study
Session, 2/9/21, packet page 28. That equals about 1.68 million boardings per year.
Before the pandemic, FF BRT offered seven Boulder-Denver routes. In addition to express buses, some
routes provided stops serving Table Mesa, McCaslin, Flatiron, Broomfield, Church Ranch, and Sheridan.
Service intervals ranged from 10 to 30 minutes (see below), depending on the route and time of day.
However, since the 2020 pandemic, four routes were suspended, and only three of the seven routes are
still operating.

2. A BRT solution will better accommodate future growth than rail.
Claim: The FF BRT configuration can expand to accommodate twice the total projected 2035 NW
Rail ridership.
Using the CARES funding, RTD has already brought back many of the bus operators and maintenance
and support personnel needed to restore Flatiron Flyer service to pre-pandemic levels. There are also
buses in storage from the 2020 service cuts. Given the popularity of the Flatiron Flyer buses—as
demonstrated by its past high ridership—RTD should prioritize rapid restoration of all seven routes to
2019 schedules.
Doubling the bus frequency would have little impact on US 36 traffic but could add twice the
capacity needed to serve all of RTD’s projected 2035 NW Rail riders. As the economy continues to
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

Final Report

74

1.B.1.a

recover, RTD could selectively expand services on popular routes. For example, if a bus pulls out of the
miles down the road, so there is plenty of capacity on US 36 for expansion. Moreover, since these buses
would be carrying far more passengers than the average vehicle, they would also significantly reduce
rather than add to congestion. And though the capacity of stations might have to be expanded as BRT
ridership grew, the expansion would be gradual and demand-driven. If the ridership didn’t grow as
expected, less expansion would be needed.
Growth by rail: RTD’s planned schedule for Line B/NW Rail is “30 minutes peak (6-9 am, 3-6 pm) / 60
minutes off-peak service.” That implies 7 + 5 + 7 + 4 = 23 round trips, or a weekday extra 46 trains on
the tracks. BNSF, which owns the rails and right-of-way, currently runs 10 to 17 freight trains per day
over this route. With NW Rail, that’s about four times as many trains, each of which stops traffic both
ways. These delays annoy the folks stalled at RR crossings, worried about being late for work, while
commuters’ idling cars and the diesel trains kick up our ozone levels. And that’s before Amtrak/FRPR
adds their rolling stock.
Are we confident that this expansion will not be an issue for BNSF’s freight operations? Whoever writes
the rail lease contracts must ensure that more trains can be added at a reasonable cost as Colorado’s
Front Range grows. According to CDOT, Colorado’s population may increase by 1.69 million over the
next 20 years, mainly along the Front Range.

3. A BRT solution will be far less expensive to implement than rail.
Claim: The US 36 FF BRT managed lanes and transit stations are already in place, and the
Boulder-Longmont SH 119 BRT is planned, could begin final design and construction within a
year, and be completed within five years.
While an additional $135 million in funding and a high implementation priority is needed for this project,
$115 million has already been committed by RTD, DRCOG, CDOT, Boulder, and Longmont. This project
was a key priority of the 2014 Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) group and has broad support
within the NW Corridor, including the Northwest Mayors and Commissioners Coalition. Compared to
the $1.5 billion (2018 dollars) for NW Rail, this is a modest investment. It is estimated to reduce
RTD’s BOLT line Boulder-Longmont travel time from 66 minutes to 38 minutes. Given the number
of Longmont residents who can’t afford Boulder housing costs, this route is critical to both local
economies. The extra lanes, including turn lanes, inside managed lanes, and cycle paths will
ensure free-flowing traffic for personal autos, heavy trucks, transit customers, and cyclists for
years to come.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

station and averages 60 mph, and the next one leaves ten minutes later, the first one is already ten

75

1.B.1.a

4. A BRT solution will be far less expensive to operate than rail.
Claim: The US 36 FF BRT managed lanes and transit stations are already in place, and the
Boulder-Longmont managed lanes will be free for BRT buses.
The cost per boarding for NW Rail must include the cost of building and maintaining the rail. But since
BRT buses have free access to public highway’s managed lanes, they don’t bear this burden. Why?
CDOT isn’t building managed lanes just for a public bus that comes along every few miles. The
managed lanes are for all vehicular traffic, though single-occupancy vehicles are often restricted or
required to pay tolls. But BRT buses carry numerous commuters, thus reducing the other vehicular
traffic. And so, CDOT lets RTD buses use the lanes for free. CDOT pays the construction and
maintenance costs of BRT’s managed lanes.
NW Rail will share new tracks which are to be built by the BNSF Railroad on the right-of-way
owned by BNSF. While it is not yet known what BNSF will charge for access to these tracks, the
total project cost for NW Rail is estimated to be $1.5 billion (2018 dollars). Assuming 30-year
financing at 2% interest, the total cost with interest would be $2.4 billion, or $80 million per year.
Add RTD’s estimated $20.6 million per year operating and maintenance cost, and RTD’s total
annual cost is about $100 million.
RTD’s estimated NW Rail initial weekday ridership is 4,100 (in RTD-speak, “boardings”). With half
that on less busy weekends and ignoring holidays, that is equivalent to 1.28 million boardings per
year, at the cost of $78 per ride.
In 2019, the Flatiron Flyer BRT provided 3.37 million boardings at the cost of $23.36 million, or
$6.93 per boarding. And if you adjust for the $6.74 million in fares, the net expense to RTD was
$4.93 per boarding. So, BRT is like getting the rails for free, and then some.

5. A BRT solution will be far less expensive to maintain than rail.
Claim: The “tracks” of BRT are managed lanes built and maintained by CDOT. Maintaining buses
is something at which RTD excels. RTD has people with extensive experience and skills in this
discipline.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

Final Report

76

1.B.1.a

Unlike trains, BRT buses operate on public highways. Therefore, there is no repair and maintenance as
need maintenance.
The 2019 Flatiron Flyer BRT’s total cost for operations and maintenance plus a share of RTD’s
administrative costs and depreciation on all assets was $6.93 per boarding. At RTD’s estimated $20.6
million for operations and maintenance, based on 1.28 million boardings per year, the boarding cost is
$16.09. And that may not include the 30-year depreciation on the $1.5 billion asset, which would add
another $39. But either way, BRT is a relative bargain.
RTD is very knowledgeable about the maintenance and repair of conventional buses. However, if RTD
chooses electric buses, there will be some significant upfront costs in retraining technicians. However, since
there are so few moving parts in electric vehicle drivetrains, the maintenance costs will be far lower over the
long term.
Conventional buses have internal combustion engines and complex transmissions, both with thousands of
moving parts. Electric motors have less than ten moving parts—though there will typically be multiple drive
motors. They also have no transmissions: more current and the bus goes faster, less current and the bus
goes slower, no current and regenerative braking slows the bus and recharges the battery. Reverse the
current polarity, and the bus backs up.
Most electric vehicles also do not require conventional lubrication or oil changes. And though they cost more
to purchase, those costs are recovered by very long useful lives and lower maintenance and fuel (renewable
electricity) costs.
The price of diesel emissions, however, is paid in asthma attacks, premature deaths, and a warming planet.
In evaluating conventional versus electric transit buses, we encourage a careful read of NREL’s 2020
research report, “Financial Analysis of Battery Electric Transit Buses.”

6. A BRT solution will be far less of a threat to RTD’s future financial
stability.
Claim: RTD struggles to meet its existing debt obligations while managing its current bus and rail
transit operation deficits. The risk will be far greater if it attempts to build NW Rail before
substantially reducing its long-term debt—which will likely take over two decades. A BRT solution
can be delivered 15 years sooner than NW Rail while minimizing the threat to the future financial
stability of RTD.
Note: Except where otherwise incorporating a link or other reference, comments below that include
page numbers are excerpts from the RTD Board Northwest Rail Study Session, Feb.9, 2021.
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

there would be with rails, railroad switches, and crossings. However, the buses and occasionally the stations

Final Report

77

1.B.1.a

RTD’s FasTracks (RTD-speak for rail) debt service consumes 65-70% of its annual Sales and Use Tax
six years and are being covered by drawing down cash reserves—which may run dry. The 2021 deficit
is projected to be $42 million. (p. 54)
There are no Base System (RTD-speak for Bus Services) funds available to support FasTracks
operations or Unfinished Corridors since the Base System (bus services) unrestricted fund balance is
projected to be negative through 2049. The cost of build-out of the FasTracks Unfinished Corridors,
including NW Rail, is $2.09 billion (2018 dollars), with additional operations and maintenance costs of
$30 million/year. (p. 50-51)
The conclusion of RTD’s Feb. 9, 2021 study is that without additional sales tax revenue, NW Rail
service could not be provided before 2046. (p.53)
For reference, here is the original 2004 FasTracks NW Rail Plan (p. 30)
•

Estimated completion date: 2015

•

Cost estimate: $565 million

•

Denver to Boulder service frequency: 15-minute peak/30-minute off-peak

•

Longmont to Boulder service: 30-minute all-day

•

Double-track rail corridor, Denver to Boulder

•

Single-track rail corridor, Boulder to Longmont

•

Technology: Diesel locomotive-hauled coaches

A 2010 evaluation raised the cost estimate to $1 billion (2010 dollars), with double-track throughout.
However, recognizing the constraints of Denver’s Union Station, they were forced to reduce the train
frequency to a 30-minute peak, one hour off-peak (55 trains per day, bi-directional service). (p. 33)
Note that the frequency of service has a significant impact on people’s willingness to use transit (“How
long do I have to wait for the next train?”). By comparison, here are the scheduled Flatiron Flyer bus
frequency schedules before the 2020 elimination of four of the routes:

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

revenue. Operating costs for the existing rail lines are estimated to result in deficits for five of the next

78

1.B.1.a

It is no wonder that this BRT service attracted 3.37 million riders in 2019. And by increasing the bus
service frequency, RTD could expand the FF BRT to support all the projected 1.28 million additional
NW Rail boardings for far less than $1.5 billion. Thus, BRT can exceed the 2004 FasTracks promises
at a fraction of the cost of rail.
Despite the hundreds of millions of dollars received from the CARES and CRRSSA grants, RTD
continues to operate at a significant loss. These are grants that RTD cannot rely on in the future.
It will be many years before RTD can pay off the debt it incurred by building rail projects. Until then,
RTD cannot build NW Rail and come close to supporting the operating losses of the current rail lines.
But by choosing BRT, RTD can exceed FasTracks’ promises without further risk to RTD’s long-term
financial stability.

Closing Notes
While financial and operational analyses don’t make for great reading, their understanding is essential
to RTD’s ability to deliver the transit services Colorado needs to grow and thrive. Budgets are moral
documents, and unless RTD is financially sustainable, many Coloradans who live paycheck to
paycheck will lose those paychecks. As a result, families will suffer, and small and large businesses
dependent on a stable workforce will either fail or leave our state.
Those who can afford it will often resort to single occupancy used vehicles chosen for low price rather
than efficiency, further clogging our highways and adding to a growing brown cloud and warming
planet. We need transit solutions that move as many folks as possible out of these single-occupancy
gasoline vehicles and into efficient, safe, and affordable transit—and renewably-powered electric
buses, not diesel locomotive trains.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

Final Report

79

1.B.1.a

The time has come to find solutions that meet the needs of all the people of the Northwest Corridor—
Lafayette, Broomfield, and the smaller communities in the Corridor. Bus Rapid Transit is a practical and
cost-effective way to meet those needs without waiting decades. And by delaying the high cost of NW Rail,
there will be more resources available to address the remaining unfinished FasTracks routes. All have paid
their taxes, and it is time to deliver on FasTracks’s 2004 transit promises. BRT can meet and exceed those
promises.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

not just Boulder and Denver but with additional BRT or bus connections among Longmont, Louisville,

Final Report

80

1.B.1.a

North Highland, as part of its on-call consulting service contract with the Committee coordinated through the
Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG), was directed to conduct a high-level assessment of
peer agencies’ performance measures to inform performance measures developed for public reporting. One
goal of the Committee is to increase transparency in RTD’s performance reporting. This summary provides
an overview of the results. The full report can be viewed here.
The RTD Accountability Committee sought recommendations for performance metrics to describe the RTD’s
performance and increase transparency. Key activities within the project scope include the following:
•

Peer Agency Evaluations – Conduct research of peer transit agencies to understand publicly available
performance metrics. Meet with an RTD representative to learn RTD’s current access to data, capability
in analyzing data, and future-state plans for dashboard reporting.

•

Facilitated Discussion with RTD Accountability Committee – Conduct a facilitated discussion session
with joint members of the Operations and Finance Subcommittees to understand the information the
Committee seeks to learn from the established performance metrics.

•

Study collected information – Analyze the findings from the peer agency evaluations and the
Subcommittee’s input to determine what metrics in use at other agencies may be applicable to RTD.

•

Propose Performance Metrics for use by RTD - Based on the results of the peer agency evaluation and
metric analysis completed, propose a series of performance metrics, inclusive of goals for consideration
by the RTD Accountability Committee.

Review of Other Agencies
The research component of this work included collecting and organizing data related to current RTD and peer
agency metrics and strategic priorities. The five peer agencies assessed as part of North Highland’s research
efforts include Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART), Utah Transit Authority (UTA), Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LA METRO), Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority
(WMATA), and Portland Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District of Oregon (TriMet).
North Highland aligned its research of these agencies with the established scope of work in conjunction with
a review of RTD’s current performance metrics. The research of the peer agencies focused on seven key
themes discussed in further detail below.

Operational effectiveness
Operational effectiveness represents performance metrics that are inclusive of RTD’s service delivery. RTD
provides a variety of transit services and measuring how well and effective the delivery of those services is
key to their success. Examples of operational effectiveness measures included on-time performance of
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Appendix 7: Performance Reporting

Final Report

81

1.B.1.a

vehicles, distance between vehicle failures, ridership metrics, and capacity. North Highland found that each

Financial performance
Financial performance metrics are indicators of the organization’s financial success. Operational budget,
capital budget, asset management, costs of operations, as well as bond rating are all examples of financial
performance measures. Each of the five peer agencies had variations in what financial performance metrics
they were collecting and reporting. The most common financial performance metric is operating cost,
measured by three of the five agencies.

Customer experience
Customer experience metrics are an indicator of overall customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction for
each of the agencies differs based on their strategic plans, however most of the agencies reporting on
customer satisfaction measured complaints or issues reported. Other examples of customer satisfaction
metrics from the five peer agencies include call volume and answer rate, percent of issues resolved, ticket
vending machine repairs, crowding, and average time to resolve issues.

Community engagement
Many transit agencies are finding ways to engage with their communities and its stakeholders. Community
engagement metrics are measures that indicate the extent to which RTD is partnering with the surrounding
community. North Highland reviewed the five agencies for indicators of community engagement such as
number of outreach events, current community partnerships, and board/committee representation of the
breadth of the organization’s service area. One organization chose to measure community engagement
through surveys. Other organizations measure social media posts, follows, engagements, or partnerships
with local governments.

Equity and accessibility
Equity and accessibility metrics indicate the extent to which RTD services are available to all riders,
particularly the disadvantaged populations such as ADA or minority/low-income people. Equity and
accessibility metrics include number of accessible stations, streamlined routes, and paratransit operations.
Only one of the five agencies collect numerous metrics related to equitable service accessibility specifically
measuring the number of lines serving areas with higher-than-average population of persons of color and
low-income persons, stop amenities, percent of housing within walking distance of stations and stops,
percent of employment accessible by all transit, and on-time performance for lines serving areas with higherthan-average percentage of disadvantaged persons. Other metrics related to ADA accessibility such as
availability of high-quality mobility options and elevator/escalator availability.
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

of the peer agencies are currently measuring and reporting on operational effectiveness metrics.

Final Report

82

1.B.1.a

Environmental impact measures indicate the impact RTD has on the environment. Examples could include
total annual emissions and the agency’s contribution to the regional economy. Measuring environmental
impact was not common among the five peer agencies and only two are currently reporting on
environmental impact metrics. While these metrics are not commonly reported on, they are important for the
overall transit industry. North Highland found the metrics currently being reported included pounds of
seasonal air pollutants prevented, total building energy use, percent of low emission vehicles in the fleet,
options for electric and alternative fuel, and progress of climate change initiatives.

Safety
Safety should always be a priority and is a good indicator for understanding how well an agency is keeping
its passengers and employees safe. All five peer agencies report various safety metrics publicly. The most
common safety metrics include passenger or employee injuries, number of reportable accidents, crime
rates, and number of preventable accidents. Other examples of safety measures include collisions, lost time
per employee (injuries on duty), derailments, fire incidents, and number of signal violations.

Recommendations and Findings
Within the seven metric areas (operational effectiveness, financial performance, customer experience,
community engagement, equity and accessibility, environmental impact, and safety), North Highland heard
fourteen (14) major objectives from the Operations Subcommittee. Connecting metrics to these objectives
helps prioritize action on these objectives. The right metrics provide leading and lagging indicators for further
analysis and resolution.
Note: We understand RTD is in the process of developing a new strategic plan and is seeking to implement
a more robust performance measurement system. The Subcommittee may wish to put forth the
recommendations in this report to supplement RTD’s ongoing work in concert with the efforts of the
Accountability Committee.
The table that follows outlines 23 proposed metrics. The metrics proposed were created with the intent that
they could be reasonably captured by RTD (e.g., they should not require additional studies or extraneous work
effort to ascertain). In some instances, RTD is regularly reporting the metric as outlined, or some variation
thereof, in quarterly Board Reports. It is possible RTD may be reporting on other metrics through internal
reporting or dashboards.

A note about stretch metrics
In addition to the 23 proposed metrics, 12 stretch metrics have been identified. In the focus areas of
Community Engagement, Equity and Accessibility, and Environmental Impact, stretch goals have been
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Environmental impact

83

Final Report

1.B.1.a

identified. These are goals that RTD may not be able to capture at this juncture. This omission may be due to
what success looks like. These metrics are captured here for further vetting and consideration by RTD and
the Subcommittee as data becomes available or a clear understanding of the desired outcome/s has been
developed.

Summary of metrics
The table below summarizes the 23 proposed metrics and 12 stretch metrices according to metric area and
objective.
Metric Area: Operational Effectiveness
Increase ridership

Percent boarding change by mode
Percent of on-time performance by mode

Provide dependable

Percent of employee vacancies

Ensure fleet reliability

Percent of vehicles over their useful life
Metric Area: Financial Performance
Operating cost recovery ratio
Percent increase in fare revenue

Efficiently manage finances

Percentage of cost per miles efficiency as compared to peer
agencies

Achieve outstanding financial
performance

Bond Rating
Metric Area: Customer Experience
Percent of time passengers are in crowded conditions

Provide an excellent rider experience

Average facility and vehicle cleanliness complaints per
month
Overall customer satisfaction and/or net promoter score

Engage with customers

Call answer rate efficiency
Average time to resolve customer issue
Metric Area: Community Engagement
Positive contribution to the region

Stretch Metrics

Percent increase in positive public impressions (multi-media)
Number of successful partnerships
Metric Area: Equity & Accessibility

Serve all populations

FTA Title VI Triennial report compliance

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

the technical systems required to capture the data, an unclear definition of terms or an inability to clearly define

84

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Serve all customers

Adherence to ADA zero denials service request mandate
Average ADA complaints per boarding
Percent of minority/low-income people with access to the
system

Stretch Metrics

Percent of households within a 10-minute walk or roll of
high-quality mobility options (consider how affordable may
also be incorporated)
Average wait time by service mode
Ratio of average fare to national average
Average number of transfers per trip
Calls answered for paratransit
Metric Area: Environmental Impact

Protect the Environment

Stretch Metrics

Percent increase of low emission vehicles in fleet
Pound of seasonal air pollutant prevented (NOX in summer
and PM 2.5 in winter)
Pounds of CO2 per passenger miles traveled
Total facility energy use
Metric Area: Safety

Operate a safe system
Keep employees safe
Keep the system secure

Number of preventable accidents per 100,000 miles
Number of signal violations
Number of reported employee equipment accidents
Offenses per 100,000 riders
Average response time to emergency dispatch calls

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Percent of customers indicating service frequency meets
their needs

85

1.B.1.a

Appendix 8: Transit Agency Partnerships with
Transportation Network Companies
DART, MARTA, King County Metro, MBTA and Miami-Dade Transit
DART
In 2020 Dallas Area Rapid Transit awarded Uber a three year contract to provide rideshare service to
supplement DART’s GoLink program, which is an on-demand shuttle service. Thispartnership aims to supply
greater service capacity to the GoLink program which currently serves 13 different zones in the Dallas area.
DART has been piloting service partnerships with TNCs since 2017 when they partnered withLyft to
increase paratransit services provided by MV Transportation. Adding Lyft as a partner increased paratransit
capacity by 7%. Through this system, MV Transportation acts as a dispatch service, scheduling and
coordinating subcontractors like Lyft, taxis, or vehicles with wheelchair lifts. While the cost remains the same
for riders within this system, the partnershipallows for increased flexibility and capacity.

MARTA
The Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority and Uber have partnered for a one year pilot program,
MARTAConnect, that began in November 2020. The goal of this program is to provideriders with
supplemental transportation and greater flexibility when there are service disruptions,given that the agency
is still running limited service due to COVID-19. The pilot was launched on Election Day as
MARTAConnect2Vote and provided $16 Uber vouchers to help riders access polling locations that were not
covered because of suspended services. After Election Day MARTAConnect has continued with some
variations. MARTAConnect provides customers with Uber vouchers when there is a planned or unplanned
service disruption in order to travel toan unaffected station. Vouchers range from $3-$10, and if riders use
the Uber ride to travel to their destination or past the geo-fenced station, they are charged the additional
distance.

King County Metro
The Seattle area transit agency is in the second year of a pilot program with the public mobility service, Via,
to provide the Via to Transit program. Via to Transit is an on-demand, shared shuttle service with the goal of
connecting riders to bus and light rail stations. Riders can use the Via app or call to request service, which
usually takes 15-20 minutes and costs the same asa Metro bus ride. The rider must either start or end their
trip at one of the designated transit stations. The program has been initially successful, and after a brief
suspension due to COVID-19, the program is operating again and the agency continues to monitor
performance.
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

86

1.B.1.a

King County Metro has also partnered with ridesharing apps to connect riders for their carpooling program.
Shared mobility options are part of King County Metro’s long-range plan.Partnering with private companies
such as Waze, Scoop, and Rideshare help to supplement King County Metro’s service and provide
connections to transit and employment hubs.

MBTA
The Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority is currently conducting a paratransit pilot program partnering with
Uber, Lyft, and Curb. This program is an on-demand service provided for ADA paratransit service users, aimed
at lowering cost and wait times and increasing flexibility. The program requires users to sign up through the
partnered companies to receive a set number ofsubsidized rides. Customers pay the first $2 and any amount
over a $42 trip cost, with the exception of UberPOOL, for which the customer pays the first $1 and any amount
over a $41 trip cost. All three companies have an option for a wheelchair accessible vehicle.

Miami-Dade Transit
In April 2020, the Miami-Dade Transit agency partnered with Uber and Lyft to supplement overnight service due
to COVID-19 related service cuts. The program, Go Nightly, seeks to provide essential workers and transitdependent populations with continued transportation options during bus service suspension. This service is
available along the suspended bus routes between the hours of 12 AM and 5 AM. Service is requested online or
by calling, andfares for the Go-Nightly program are suspended.
Read about other transit agencies that have partnerships with TNCs in this APTA article.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

1.B.1.a

Appendix 9: FreeLift | Demand Driven First/Last Mile
Partnerships
A Proposal from the Finance Subcommittee
FreeLift will provide about five free shared rides to transit stations for the $22.60 average subsidy of a single
FlexRide passenger. It will focus on low-income Coloradans in underserved communities who are most in need
of dependable access to education, training, and better-paying jobs. FreeLift is the key to restoring RTD’s
ridership to pre-pandemic levels while shifting commuters from SOVs to transit. It is also an ideal model for costsharing partnerships with local governments and employers and service delivery partnerships with
Transportation Network Companies (TNCs).

Here’s how FreeLift works
The initial pilots serve communities more than a mile from rail
stations. Only committed public transit users with RTD
passes are qualified for this free benefit. Community
members who wish to give RTD a try receive a free 15 or 30day transit pass. The TNC driver’s smartphone scans the
pass and records the picked-up passenger’s pass ID,
location, date, and time, then continues on the loop to the rail
station.
FreeLift is not a door-to-door service. Instead, drivers pick up
passengers along higher population density streets or at
community gathering places. RTD pass holders can request
rides on the TNC app, which displays currently operating
FreeLift vehicles on a street map or walk to a gathering
Figure 1: Elyria-Swansea FreeLift Loop

place. TNCs will pick up three or more passengers along the
loop for a quick ride to the rail station, then loop back for

another trip, potentially carrying return fares.
Pickup/drop-off sites will be at designated locations within a few blocks of many homes. This is similar to how
existing TNC rideshare programs operate and should not require excessive software development efforts by the
TNC or RTD.

A win for customers and RTD
Let’s say RTD pays a base of $7 plus $2 each for three passengers (or up to five in an SUV, seven in a van).
That’s $13 for a four-mile trip—without having to drive around aimlessly, burning gas while waiting for a fare.
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

87

Final Report

88

Final Report

1.B.1.a

RTD would provide TNC wait spaces
returning passenger pickup locations. If
it takes 15 minutes to drive the loop,
that’s $52/hour, though roughly a third
goes to the TNC with the rest going to
the driver. Larger TNC SUVs or vans
can earn significantly more. RTD pays
$4.33 per rider, less than a fifth of
today’s FlexRide passenger subsidy.
And this is a free, market demanddriven system—no rigid schedules, no
near-empty 14-passenger buses

Figure 2: Aurora Hills FreeLift Loop

roaming the streets. Plus, three or four passengers means far fewer stops. And RTD offers TNC drivers a
“target-rich” source of riders.
There will be many other details to negotiate with the TNC—such as open access to the TNC’s driver/passenger
rating system—but this proposal provides a general idea of how FreeLift will work. Some FreeLift services may
also be partnerships between large employers and RTD. While it will need pilots to optimize the service
efficiently, FreeLift will open new markets for RTD and the TNC, driving ridership while providing public transit
access for underserved communities. In summary:
•

FreeLift gives RTD market access to underserved neighborhoods, increasing ridership and equity

•

Communities bypassed by station location decisions gain access to public transit

•

Requiring passes, which are often discounted for low-income residents, encourages transit use

•

No significant capital costs and operating costs shared by employers and local government

•

This model can focus on underperforming rail lines, underserved minorities and later expand to BRT and
buses

Special FreeLift services for customers with moderate disabilities
Access-a-Ride will still be the best solution for RTD customers with disabilities that require heavy, non-folding
motorized wheelchairs. However, many customers with more moderate disabilities who live near FreeLift routes
may prefer the simplicity of zero-cost FreeLift services. Therefore, to encourage conventional public transit use,
RTD should provide these customers with a free transit pass and a pass for an accompanying personal
attendant if required. This policy is both the right thing to do and is also a more cost-effective Access-a-Ride
alternative for RTD. But the choice is up to the customer: free conventional transit or scheduling an Access-aRide.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

at the rail station near clearly marked

89

Final Report

1.B.1.a

FreeLift drivers would pick up these customers at their residence, assist them with seating, storing, and later
passenger fee of $8 plus $2 for the personal attendant, if any, plus their $7 base fee. They could continue
picking up other passengers or head to the rail station. The customer could either take a shuttle at their
destination rail station or schedule an Access-a-Cab ride to their final destination.
Some people might consider FreeLift plus free transit passes to be an overly generous benefit. However,
compared to RTD’s average 2019 Access-a-Ride subsidy of $54.55, it is a bargain for RTD—and free for the
customer!

FreeLift for Bus Rapid Transit
Here is how the FreeLift model applies to the
future Longmont-Boulder BRT service. As shown
below, two loops on either side of Main Street
gather riders from surrounding neighborhoods and
feed into Longmont’s First and Main Transit
Station. However, these longer loops are probably
better for SUVs or eight-passenger vans than
cars. This model can also drive BRT ridership by
effectively serving Lafayette, Louisville,
Broomfield, Superior, and other Northwest
Corridor communities.
Note that the Longmont FreeLift loop layout
shown below is just a rough concept and not
meant to reflect any final FreeLift service loops.
Local folks always know best what they need and
how a service such as FreeLift will most efficiently
operate. These loops will also cost RTD less than
Figure 3: Longmont FreeLift East and West Loops

a dollar a ride when autonomous electric shuttles
are more widely available in the coming years.

Google’s Waymo and GM Cruise are already seeking permits for autonomous taxi rides in San Francisco.

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

retrieving any walkers or folding wheelchairs. For these special services, they would receive a higher per-

Final Report

90

1.B.1.a

RTD’s costs associated with fare collection consist of treasury management and revenue equipment group
costs. In 2019, fare collection costs made up 3.3% ($5,031,800) of total fare revenue and 5.7% ($4,503,327) in
2020 due to decreased farerevenue.
Factors that affect fare collection efficiency include the size and modal composition of the transit agency and
system equipment procurement and updating 18. Factors that maydecrease fare collection costs include fixedcalendar monthly passes, rolling passes (orrechargeable passes), and eliminating local zones 19.
It is typical for transit agencies to spend 5-15% of fare revenue on fare collection. Farecollections costs with
smart card-based fare systems start at levels of around 15% (or $0.15 on the dollar) and reduce these levels to
as low as 6% of fare revenue, contingenton the size of the agency, asset deployment strategies, operational
strategies and laborcontracts 20. Costs of fare collection for Bus Rapid Transit systems typically range from 712% of operating costs 21.
The fare technology company, Masabi conducted a 2019 survey of primarily North American transit agencies,
which showed that about 33% of agencies’ core AutomaticFare Collection systems cost under 10% of their fare
revenue to run 22.
Based on these reports, RTD’s fare collection costs seem to fall within, if not below theexpected range.

18 National Center for Transit Research. Regional Fare Policy and Fare Allocation, Innovations in Fare

Equipment and Data Collection. (2010).
19 TCRP. Fare Policies, Structures and Technologies: Update. (2003).
20 Smart Card Alliance. Planning for New Fare Payment and Collection Systems: Cost Considerations and
Procurement Guidelines. (2010).
21 ITDP. BRT Planning Guide, 4th Edition. Volume 5 Technology, 18.7 Costs.
22 Masabi. Transit Agency Research Report: The State of Fare Collection. (2019).
RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Appendix 10: Fare Collection Costs

Final Report

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee - Final Report (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Final Report

91
1.B.1.a

RTD Accountability Committee

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.b

8/2/2021 DRAFT

[Cover Letter Forthcoming]
Regional Transportation District (“RTD”) Responses to
Accountability Committee (“Committee”) Recommendations
(**Committee Recommendations are in italics and were numbered by RTD.
Highlighted documents to be appended at a later date.)
Financial Review
Recommendation 1: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations

The more than $700 million RTD will receive in Federal COVID-19 relief funding
provides a revenue source for RTD to implement the Committee’s recommendations,
in alignment with federal funding guidance. The Committee’s recommendations for
spending these funds are targeted at stabilizing RTD operations, restoring services,
rebuilding trust, attracting new and returning riders, and helping the Agency recover
from the COVID-19 pandemic. As pandemic restrictions ease and more employees
return to the workplace, there is an urgent, time-limited opportunity to attract them to
commute via transit before their post-pandemic behavior is locked into driving to work
in a single-occupant vehicle instead. Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear.
P rovide a transparent process and m ake priorities clear.
RTD should provide full transparency during deliberations regarding the use of these
federal dollars so that stakeholders and members of the public can follow the tradeoffs,
including pros and cons of the RTD Board’s decisions. RTD should clearly define its
priorities for this funding, the issues being addressed by additional funds, and the
amount of funding allocated to each priority. This transparency should continue as
funds are spent so the public can track expenditures. As there may be a year-end
surplus because of these funds, the Committee requests accountability in the use of
these dollars.
RTD Response: Agree
For RTD’s March 29, 2021 response to the Committee’s February 12, 2021 COVID-19
Relief Funds recommendations see Appendix __.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 96

1.B.1.b

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 2

RTD will continue to communicate, in public forums, the intended uses of federal
COVID-19 relief grant funding according to FTA directives regarding eligible
expenditures. RTD will present this financial information throughout the budgeting and
forecasting processes to include tradeoffs under current financial constraints and also
communicate funding priorities. In addition, RTD will provide regular updates, in public
forums and on the RTD website, regarding the status of drawing federal COVID-19
relief grant funding and for which eligible expenditures those funds were applied.
Recommendation 2: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations

Strategically recall previously laid off front line em ployees.
The Committee acknowledges and supports RTD’s decision to recall approximately 200
direct-service employees. However, in keeping with the above recommendation, RTD
should explain the amount of its federal stimulus funding allocation needed to recall
these workers and the amount of funding remaining to support additional priorities.
The focus of these recalls should ensure RTD has capacity to restore quality transit
service, particularly to transit-dependent communities as quickly as possible.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD will carefully evaluate the human and financial resources necessary to restore
quality transit service while ensuring that it meets the needs of RTD’s customers within
the constraining factors. RTD will continue to be transparent in presenting budget
appropriations and the supporting funding sources necessary to meet those needs.
All represented Bus and Rail Operations employees were recalled. For Rail Operations
salaried employees, 60% were reinstated with remaining positions requiring further
organizational review and funding.
Recommendation 3: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations

Share federal funding w ith other transit service providers in the m etro area.
There are several non-profit and community-based transit service providers in the RTD
district. They supplement RTD’s fixed-route and paratransit services, often at a cost
lower than RTD could provide for comparable service. As with RTD, these providers
have been impacted by reduced ridership and lost revenue due to the COVID-19
pandemic and would benefit greatly from funding, where appropriate.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 97

1.B.1.b

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 3

RTD Response: Partially Agree
As the direct recipient of federal funding, RTD is not legally permitted to “share” that
funding but may apply it towards public transit expenditures for which it is eligible
including public transit services that are contracted with third parties, first/last mile
solutions, etc. which fall within the auspices of providing public transit services.
RTD endeavors to leverage the qualifying services of non-profit, community-based and
other service contractors with federal funding, recognizing the efficiencies that private
sector services may offer, in providing holistic mobility options to the public which are
within RTD’s purview.
Recommendation 4: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations

Conduct a six-m onth pilot to rebuild ridership and attract new riders via a
reduced flat fare for local and regional routes and free fares for all or som e
of the discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors 65+, disabled, and
low incom e LiVE).
Market it as a simple, affordable, and easy to understand way to ride RTD and an
incentive to attract returning and new riders. This will reduce costs for financially
struggling essential workers who are still riding RTD. During the pilot program, use this
time to explore other ways to improve affordability of existing and/or new pass
programs, including LiVE, that can be put in place as a longer-term solution.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
Under Title VI regulations of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, RTD is restricted in its ability to
offer “pilot” programs in both duration and frequency. Route and fare changes of this
nature are required to undergo a prescribed process including an equity analysis.
RTD is currently undertaking a System-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis to
investigate and possibly implement fare changes that provide several benefits to RTD
customers compared to the current structure.
Included in this evaluation,
consideration will be given to providing fare structure simplicity and value.
As part of the implementation of RTD’s Strategic Plan, RTD will also consider the intent
of this recommendation to attract ridership and the role it plays in defined success
outcomes.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 98

1.B.1.b

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 4

Recommendation 5: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations

Help rebuild and increase ridership by im proving uptake and ease of use of
passes.
Allow flexibility in the EcoPass programs and contracts so that more neighborhoods
and businesses can participate. For example, allow master EcoPass contracts to
support county-wide affordable housing programs and create more options for
businesses to obtain employee EcoPasses for a subset of their workers. Consider
discounts for bulk pass purchases.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees with the Committee’s recommendation and will further explore opportunities
for pricing and ease of administration of pass programs as part of the System-wide Fare
Study and Equity Analysis. A robust engagement process will be part of the study process.
Currently, EcoPass and CollegePasses use a smart card. Customers tap and go without
the worry of having exact change. The current pass programs are set up and implemented
as established through the Pass Program Working Group process. RTD and many pass
customers have experienced challenges with the current structure. The utilization pricing
structure has been especially challenging for RTD to implement and has been a financial
burden on many pass program clients.
Due to the pandemic, RTD has offered flexible solutions for pass programs. In 2020, staff
provided refunds and/or credits based on the duration of the rear-door boarding policy
from April 2020 through July 2020. This helped organizations remain in the program. Staff
also adjusted contract totals due to organizations either closing or having a reduction in
headcount. In 2021, staff allowed employers to exclude remote employees from their
headcount when renewing. The agency also provided options for them to renew first of
the year or hold off and renew at a later date with a prorated contract. Staff worked with
larger employers with 3000+ employees to make adjustments to pricing based on the
lowered headcounts. Staff also worked with the State to offer alternatives by working
directly with each agency to allow more flexibility. The agency worked with the Auraria
Higher Education Campus to leverage a pilot program. Staff lowered the contract minimum
for the neighborhood EcoPass program to provide flexibility and affordability for
neighborhoods renewing later in the year. Staff also updated the policy to allow an
organization managing multiple properties to have them all within one contract. In
addition, RTD offers an alternative with its bulk mobile feature that many organizations
are taking advantage of as an alternative to a pass program.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 99

1.B.1.b

Recommendation 6: Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations

Help fund P EAK eligibility technicians/ casew orkers at county HHS
departm ents to help people through LiVE enrollm ent and allow LiVE
applicants to prove eligibility through verification docum ents from other
assistance program s (SNAP , W I C, etc.). Continuing to get the LiVE ID cards in
qualified participant’s hands is essential and counties can provide this customer
assistance, but need funding to help support this function.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD currently provides funding to Denver Human Services (DHS) for personnel to
assist with LiVE Program customer eligibility evaluations, customer service and all
aspects of assisting LiVE Program applicants and customers. Those DHS employees
were hired specifically for this purpose using RTD funding. RTD and DHS regularly work
with other governmental and non-profit entities to train and provide support for their
customers regarding the LiVE Program.
DHS has hired a LiVE Program Outreach Coordinator that assists applicants throughout
the District at partner locations. That position is being funded by RTD.
RTD will continue to investigate viable additional services, when needed, to assist LiVE
Program applicants and continue with community outreach efforts.

Review of State Performance Audit
Recommendation 7: Improve Operator Retention

The Operations Subcommittee assessed and discussed the State Auditor Report’s
findings on operator retention and human resources. The report described a series of
recommendations to address and improve operator retention. The Committee agrees
with the findings of the report and encourages RTD to spend Federal relief funding to
support the implementation of the proposed recommendations.
Summary of report recommendations:
RTD management should take additional steps to improve supervisory practices
around performance feedback to address operator turnover.
• RTD management should improve its processes to help ensure that bus
operators receive adequate rest breaks during their work shifts, in accordance
with requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining Agreement.
• RTD management should improve its processes for assigning schedules to
operators.
•

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 5

Packet Pg. 100

1.B.1.b

RTD Response: Agree
RTD is committed to improving its processes for effectively sourcing and onboarding
candidates and broadening its retention, recruiting, technology, and compensation
strategies. Below outlines planned efforts as a result of Human Resource’s workforce
analysis conducted in June 2021.
Retention Efforts
•
•
•
•
•
•

Training and Development – Implement tactical and strategical development
efforts for all employees.
Train all frontline supervisors and mid-level managers in Supervisor 101 and
Manager Basic courses (based on success outcomes).
First Year Onboarding Refinement – Implement functional training tracking
requirements that are scalable.
Operational Mentorships – Reinforce Rail and Bus new mentorship programs
designed to help new hires transition through their first year.
Retention Incentives – Recognizing top talent with desired behaviors with on-thespot incentive awards.
Recognition Programs – Drive all employees towards internal programs designed
for encouraging each other.

Recruiting Efforts
•

•

•

Proactive Sourcing
• Attract talent by researching the ideal profiles and engaging with them
directly (Sell).
• Generate leads for pipelining to meet thresholds turnover based on top
sources (Plan).
• Engage in outreach events to increase underutilization areas (Track).
Tailored Advertising
• Based on existing education source data and common geographical areas
of new hires currently, align efforts with Marketing to ensure
job advertisement platforms are matching profiles identified.
• Create niche marketing to strengthen RTD's brand. Ask “where does the
ideal profile spend their time the most?”
Involve the Business
Involvement does not stop at attending job fairs or providing job advertisement
sources. Involvement also means engaging managers and/or delegates throughout
the recruiting process once a candidate has been identified. Examples include:
• Engagement communications directly from Superintendents once a
candidate is invited to RTD information sessions.
• Supervisors creating excitement when 30/60/90 milestones are met (new
hires and promotions).

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 6

Packet Pg. 101

1.B.1.b

•
•

•

Executive leadership is fostering behaviors that are needed to succeed by
"inspecting what is expected."
Staff leaders at all levels engaging employees in a positive employee culture
and experience.
Meeting new employees and checking in throughout the onboarding and
training process.

Technology Efforts
•

•

Involve key stakeholders in technological advancement studies that impact how
RTD transports customers.
• What are the trends?
• How long before RTD can adopt new technology?
• What skills will be necessary to progress the new technology?
• Who currently possesses the necessary skills?
• What training will be needed to transition those without the necessary skills?
• Where do we find the necessary skills outside of RTD?
Create a "life-cycle" calculation to identify legacy technology retiring to stagger
talent resources appropriately.
• What technology will be retiring and when?
• Who currently possesses the legacy skills?
• How long before the legacy skills are no longer needed?
• Who will RTD provide "retention bonuses" to those with these legacy skills
to close out the technology when the time comes?

Compensation Efforts
RTD will continue to actively assess and bargain for a variety of options to optimize
employee compensation consistent with the Collective Bargaining Agreement with the
Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001. Recently RTD and the Union collectively agreed
to new incentives for employees taking on additional work and overtime pay beginning
July 11, 2021.
Performance Feedback
RTD agrees with the recommendations of the Committee and the State Auditor and
recognizes that regular and timely performance feedback is important to operator
development and retention. Some examples of strategies that are currently underway
include:
•
•

Implementation of operator mentoring program to provide one-on-one
assistance on successfully transitioning into the new position, guidance and
support in meeting goals, and career development.
Expansion of employee recognition programs to acknowledge operator trainees
graduations, top performance, and customer commendations.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 7

Packet Pg. 102

1.B.1.b

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Launch of employee suggestion hotline to improve communication and provide
employees another avenue to provide feedback.
Update of leadership training for supervisors to include creating a team
environment of inclusion, celebrating successes, active listening, emotional
intelligence, and providing constructive feedback.
Maximizing use of WorkDay HR Information System and other tools to increase
accessibility of employee performance information to promote supervisor
feedback.
Identification of options for providing focused feedback during regularly
established “Re-certification” or “Refresher” trainings.
Resumption of supervisor/manager ride checks.
Increase in visibility of leadership at all levels consistent with pandemic safety
guidelines.
Development of process for conducting formal exit interviews to gather and
share information to improve supervision practices and retention.

Bus Operator Rest Breaks
RTD agrees with the Committee’s recommendations and the State Auditor’s findings and
is committed to improving processes to ensure all operators receive adequate rest breaks
and to minimize fatigue risks consistent with the Collective Bargaining Agreement. When
situations are identified with breaks not in compliance, Operations leadership ensures that
operators have access to breaks by adjusting resources as available. In addition,
Operations is working with Service Planning to adjust schedules for a permanent fix to the
situation. Operators have access to the operator suggestion form and these are sent to
Service Planning for input to future run boards.
Bus Operator Schedules
RTD supported the recommendations of the State Auditor and conveyed that in its
December 2020 responses. and RTD management continues to seek out opportunities to
address operator quality of life issues. Recognizing RTD cannot unilaterally implement all
changes, as some are qualified as work rules and are subject to the collective bargaining
processes, RTD management continues in good faith to actively identify and implement
solutions agreed upon by both parties consistent with the Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
Some examples of strategies that are currently underway include:
•
•
•

Hiring additional part-time operators to eliminate split shifts and assessing parttime operator flexibility
Discussing options with Union leadership for adjustments that would allow for a
15-minute break at the end of each run
Refining operator feedback mechanisms, including the route management program
to collect operator feedback regarding challenges with bid work and suggestions
for schedule changes in order to incorporate that feedback to address issues related

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 8

Packet Pg. 103

1.B.1.b

•

to service reliability, on-time performance, and operator quality of life and breaks
Increasing communications with operators to ensure all employees are aware of
benefits available to them such as the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and
other benefits that are designed to improve work life balance

Governance and Executive Leadership
Recommendation 8: Develop Subregional Service Councils

The RTD Accountability Committee believes that RTD should have a more collaborative
decision-making structure to increase input from local communities.
R evise R TD’s transit service planning process by establishing subregional
service councils. Service councils w ill have responsibility for developing and
recom m ending “local” transit service plans for the R TD Board’s
consideration. The Committee believes the introduction of this concept will:
Improve collaboration between RTD and the communities it serves.
Increase opportunities for public input through locally accessible forums.
Advance social equity goals by developing community-based transit plans that
identify transportation and service gaps, especially in low income and minority
neighborhoods.
• Promote innovative mobility solutions at a local level consistent with the RTD
Board’s overall service goals and objectives.
• Provide an opportunity to address geographic equity and rebuild trust and
transparency with constituents.
•
•
•

RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees with the Committee’s objective of increasing community collaboration in
service planning and is committed to rebuilding trust and transparency with constituents.
As discussed in its following responses to Recommendations 9 and 10, RTD will establish
a workgroup to consider the role and purpose of service councils. RTD will continue to
evaluate ways to enhance the stakeholder listening session model to ensure that social
equity remains at the forefront of service discussions and decisions with Title VI as a basis.
As part of RTD’s enhanced approach to stakeholder engagement, in early 2021, the
agency implemented Stakeholder Listening Sessions as part of the service change process
that occurs three times a year. These sessions provide an opportunity for RTD staff to
listen to stakeholders and solicit input that is considered in the development of the draft
service plans that are presented to the RTD Board.
The listening sessions occur as geographic sector meetings whereby the RTD service area
is broken down into five sectors based on general travel shed patterns throughout the
metro area. Municipal and county boundaries were also considered where appropriate to
not divide jurisdictions between councils as much as possible. RTD Board members and
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 9

Packet Pg. 104

1.B.1.b

key stakeholders in each sector who are highly engaged in transit considerations in their
communities are invited to participate in the sessions to share input that helps inform
service adjustments. This process has been well received by stakeholders who are
appreciative of an open and transparent forum to help guide RTD service adjustments.
Recommendation 9: Develop Subregional Service Councils

M em bership: The Com m ittee recom m ends service councils be
representative of the com m unity-at-large. Service council m em bership shall
include:
•
•
•

Elected representatives, or their designee, from each city/town/county within
each council district.
A broad spectrum of community interests and geography to ensure social,
economic, financial, and environmental equity considerations are represented.
Transit Users: residents who live, work, or attend school within the council
district.

RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees that service planning and development must ensure a broad spectrum of
customer voices and stakeholders are heard. RTD will establish a workgroup to consider
the role and purpose of service councils, including the membership on such councils.
RTD makes service adjustments three times per year and holds public hearings to
introduce proposed service changes and collect feedback from customers and
stakeholders. This process is open to the public including elected officials and community
stakeholders. Comments are collected via phone, fax, email and in-person or virtual
meetings. RTD implemented a new stakeholder engagement process in early 2021 to
enhance the opportunity for stakeholders to provide feedback about service needs and
adjustments before a draft service plan is presented for public comment.
Stakeholder listening sessions are hosted prior to the development of service adjustments
to collect input and information as transit needs evolve. These sessions are hosted within
five geographic sectors based on travel patterns within the RTD service area. Currently,
mayors or their designees, county commission chairs or their designees, city/county staff
most engaged and informed about RTD service needs, and leaders of all regional
transportation management organizations/associations are invited to the listening
sessions. In addition, RTD holds additional listening sessions with key stakeholder groups
including major school/university groups and Local Coordinating Councils.
The new stakeholder listening session process has been working well. RTD staff continues
to evaluate the process and make adjustments as necessary. This format will continue to
be expanded to include representation from various customer segments and will be
expanded to include dialogue about key and relevant transportation topics.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 10

Packet Pg. 105

1.B.1.b

Recommendation 10: Develop Subregional Service Councils

Districts: The Com m ittee recom m ends R TD establish a w orkgroup of
regional stakeholders to com prehensively evaluate the follow ing tw o
service council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit for the Denver
region. The w orkgroup shall consider the role and purpose of the service
councils, com m unity cohesion and R TD staff resources in its analysis.
•

County Boundaries: The RTD service area encompasses wholly or partially
Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Broomfield, Denver, Douglas, and Jefferson
counties. The establishment of service councils based on this pre-determined
geo-political boundary would appear logical since local governments residing in
the same county already have a familiarity with each other. Additionally, countybased service councils would be consistent with the already established DRCOG
subregional forums which are utilized for transportation planning and funding
decisions.

•

Travel Shed: A valuable tool for visualizing and analyzing mobility patterns. In
the Denver region, known travel behavior makes this concept a viable option
particularly if fewer service districts is the objective.

RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees with the Committee’s recommendation to establish a workgroup of regional
stakeholders to consider the role and purpose of service councils and to evaluate the
two council boundary concepts of County Boundaries and Travel Shed. As discussed
below, RTD supports gathering service planning stakeholder input through a Travel
Shed rather than a County Boundaries model.
County Boundaries Model (See Appendix __)
Travel patterns along major corridors and transfers to and from those corridors are
more indicative of customer behavior and potential service allocation than arbitrary
boundaries between jurisdictions. Travel patterns also do not follow county boundaries,
and trips do not necessarily start or end where a jurisdiction changes. Outside of
Boulder County, local services cross county and municipal boundaries for customers to
make trips. All counties have a strong travel market to and from Denver, especially
those bordering Denver, and having county-based service councils has the potential to
downplay the significance of those travel patterns.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 11

Packet Pg. 106

1.B.1.b

Subregional Councils

Area (sq
Name
Population mi)
Southeast
957,742
313
Southwest
635,653
638
Northeast
571,707
363
Northwest
462,953
273
Boulder
330,983
757

County Councils
Name
Adams
Arapahoe
Boulder
Broomfield
Denver
Douglas
Jefferson

Area (sq
Population mi)
487,511
316
616,135
174
330,983
757
64,066
32
692,158
155
197,758
135
570,427
773

There are major differences in the population, geographic area, and number of
jurisdictions of each county, for example:
•
•
•
•
•

Broomfield has a nominal population and geographic area, and is only one
municipality
Denver is only one municipality but has a large population and large
geographic area
Douglas County only includes a small part of the county with small area and
population (relative to other counties).
Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, and Jefferson Counties are relatively balanced.
Weld County only includes portions of Brighton, Longmont, and Erie and
should probably be included with Adams County (Brighton) or Boulder
County (Longmont and Erie), but if county boundaries are the divider why
shouldn’t Weld County be separate?

Cities like Arvada, Aurora, and Westminster are in multiple counties and would be at a
disadvantage in a county-based system. While a travel shed-based system still places
some municipalities in multiple subregions, the travel patterns are better represented
by following high-capacity corridors rather than county boundaries.
Travel Shed Model (See Appendix __)
Travel sheds do not stop at jurisdictional boundaries and best reflect the trips made
and desired by RTD customers by focusing on high-capacity corridors, connecting
services, through services, and regional trips.
All counties have a strong travel market to and from Denver and following travel sheds
allows for those markets to be properly evaluated with Denver being in multiple
subregions.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 12

Packet Pg. 107

1.B.1.b

 Local network within Boulder County is already almost wholly self-contained and
can remain as its own subregion.
 Northeast subregion includes travel sheds for East Colfax, A Line, and N Line.
 Northwest subregion includes travel sheds for N I-25, Flatiron Flyer, B Line, and G
Line.
 Southwest subregion includes travel sheds for West Colfax, W Line, and Southwest
Corridor.
 Southeast subregion includes travel sheds for Southeast Corridor,
Speers/Leetsdale/Parker, and East Colfax.
Recommendation 11: Develop Subregional Service Councils

R TD R esource Allocation: The Com m ittee acknow ledges the critical role R TD
plays in fulfilling the m obility needs of Denver area residents. Understandably,
taxpayers are interested in having more information of how their tax dollars are being
used to create an equitable transit system. As a result, the Committee recommends
RTD develop and submit to the subregional service councils an annual report
illustrating how the revenues generated in each subregion are used to provide
transportation “value” to the residents of the subregion.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD currently produces an annual report that allocates revenue and expenses by
county across the eight counties within the RTD boundaries. RTD is an integrated
transit system that crosses multiple jurisdiction boundaries across 2,342 square miles
and utilizes resources that are centralized or cannot be accurately attributed to specific
geographic areas. Following the subregional council workgroup’s recommendations,
RTD will consider producing a report illustrating how it provides value to subregion
residents as well as to the District and State as a whole.
RTD’s 2021-26 Strategic Plan (see Appendix __) highlights a commitment to providing
value to RTD customers as well as to the broader Denver metro region, and includes
Community Value as a strategic priority. Beginning in 2022, quarterly reports will be
available for tracking this success outcome.

RTD Board of Directors
Recommendation 12: Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 13

The structure of the Board of Directors differs from some peer agencies. The
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 108

1.B.1.b

Committee believes a deeper exploration should be pursued after Subregional Councils
are implemented.
The Committee acknowledges a lack of consensus on how the structure of the RTD
Board affects the effectiveness of its decision making, neither is there clarity on the
existence of a problem with the Board’s structure nor what that problem may be. In
addition, the Committee is making a series of recommendations (e.g., Subregional
Service Councils) which, if implemented, may impact Board operations. Finally, the
RTD Board is proactively making changes to the structure of its Subcommittees and
the organization has appointed a new General Manager, both of which present
opportunities for modifying the functionality of the Board.
When coupled with these changes, the finding that RTD’s Board structure differs from
most other transit agencies is not sufficient for developing recommendations, as they
simply note areas of differences and commonalities, as opposed to effectiveness.
Therefore, it would be premature to develop recommendations for future Board
structures and the Committee suggests further study and analysis be completed by an
independent body with input from regional stakeholders. Specifically, the Committee
recommends the following course of action:
•

Following a reasonable period of time for the Committee recommendations to
be implemented and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the effectiveness
of RTD’s Board structure. In partnership with regional stakeholders, evaluate
the historical context of RTD’s Board structure, define Board effectiveness,
success and efficiency, and evaluate past Boards’ records for meeting these
criteria. Determine whether and where problem(s) exists, and if so, develop a
problem statement and recommended solution. If a problem does not exist or
inefficiencies are not found, the RTD Board structure should remain unchanged.

•

Where problems are identified or in instances where the Board could be
operating more efficiently, conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies and other agencies within
the region. Further examine the findings in this assessment and develop an
understanding of the impacts the implementation of any Committee
recommendations.

•

Based on the findings of the study, determine if a new Board structure would
better serve both RTD and the region’s constituents. If so, outline a new Board
structure, including roles and responsibilities, and revise the by-laws if
necessary.

RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees with the Committee’s finding that there is no consensus on whether there
is a problem to solve with respect to the current Board structure. RTD also agrees that
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 14

Packet Pg. 109

1.B.1.b

it is advisable to wait a minimum of two years before convening an independent body
to study and make recommendations on the Board’s structure, effectiveness, and
efficiency. This will allow time for the launch and implementation of RTD’s Boardadopted Strategic Plan, which was developed cooperatively with the General Manager
and CEO, the executive leadership team, and the Board of Directors, and for the
restructuring of the Board’s committees. The strategic plan includes four strategic
priorities: Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee Ownership, and Financial
Success, and will serve as the functional pillars used to plan, develop, evaluate, and
measure the agency’s performance through oversight via its committee structure and
overarching governance.

Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
Northwest Rail/Unfinished FasTracks
Recommendation 13: Explore FasTracks Options

The four unfinished FasTracks corridors, Northwest Rail in particular, pose a significant
financial and operating challenge for RTD. These recommendations provide
opportunities to explore achievable options while continuing to keep commitments to
voters.
The Com m ittee supports the Northw est R ail alignm ent for the Front R ange
P assenger R ail (FR P R ) corridor and recom m ends R TD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities w ith the FR PR project. This route not only appears to
provide significant benefits for the FRPR project but also offers an opportunity to
leverage investments and services to support Northwest Rail.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
The Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR) currently has three alignments through
Denver. Two of these alignments affect two RTD Projects – Northwest Rail and North
Metro. RTD will presents its analysis of pros and cons of both alignments for
consideration. RTD will pursue all reasonable partnership opportunities with the FRPR
project, to leverage investments and services. RTD has begun engaging in partnership
efforts.
Recommendation 14: Explore FasTracks Options

R TD should w ork w ith local jurisdictions and DRCOG to explore
opportunities for transit-oriented developm ent and other strategies to
increase projected ridership on the unfinished corridors.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 15

Packet Pg. 110

1.B.1.b

RTD Response: Agree
RTD will continue to work with DRCOG and jurisdictions on local planning efforts
around stations to encourage development in the vicinity of the unfinished corridors.
RTD will encourage higher densities, walkability, a variety of access routes serving all
modes (ped, bike, auto, scooter, etc.), and forward-thinking zoning. However, RTD
does not have land use authority and can only encourage transit supportive land use
policy.
Recommendation 15: Explore FasTracks Options

R TD should investigate opportunities to increase non-R TD resources for
transit stations including local cost sharing, grants, tax increm ent financing,
or public-private partnerships.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD has used most of the above strategies on past projects and will continue to work
with local jurisdictions and others to pursue non-RTD resources for project
implementation and ongoing operations and maintenance. Reimagine RTD will
establish a framework for partnerships so that local governments and other entities
garner an understanding of RTD’s process and requirements for partnering with RTD.
RTD regularly seeks additional funding opportunities and will continue to do so. RTD
recently applied for a Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity
(RAISE) planning grant to aid in the planning of the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study.
Seeking additional funding opportunities must fall within RTD’s authority under
enabling legislation and other laws, including Taxpayer Bill of Rights restrictions.
Recommendation 16: Explore FasTracks Options

R TD should perform a com plete and com prehensive analysis of the
Northw est R ail project to establish a com m on set of assum ptions (including
cost, ridership and tim eline), and then engage in a regional discussion about
opportunities and alternatives, both near-term and long-term , for the
corridor.
RTD Response: Agree
This effort is currently underway. In February 2021, RTD staff briefed the Board on
the current status of the Northwest Rail (NWR) as part of the overall FasTracks
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 16

Packet Pg. 111

1.B.1.b

program. At that time, the Board supported staff’s recommendation to work with
jurisdictional stakeholders to develop an operating plan and budget to provide Peak
Service rail service to the corridor.
Since February, several engagement sessions have been held with jurisdictional
stakeholders of the northwest region and multiple presentations have been made to
the Board regarding a comprehensive NWR Peak Service Study that will address
different operational scenarios, viable vehicle technologies, fleet and infrastructure
needs, lifecycle costing, risk and mitigation strategies, operational rights within the
BNSF corridor, and independent capital and operating cost estimates to support Peak
Service Operations.
The proposed Study will support a clear understanding of the first phase of the
commitment to deliver the Northwest Rail as outlined in the 2004 FasTracks plan. It
will consider the potential future integration of NWR and the Front Range Passenger
Rail from Boulder to Longmont. The Study will include extensive, robust community
outreach. RTD plans to use the Study deliverables as part of future contracts in
connection with any property acquisition, key agreements, and design and construction
should funding become available to implement the NWR Peak Service. This
comprehensive study is planned to be complete by the end of 2023.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 17

Packet Pg. 112

1.B.1.b

To help complete this Study, RTD plans to contact with a consultant group, to conduct
a Planning and Environmental Linkages (PEL) Study. RTD has been working with the
jurisdictional stakeholders to develop a scope of work. Staff is in the process of seeking
formal approval from the RTD Board of Directors to transfer funds from the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account for the Study. RTD is working towards having this consultant
team on board by year end 2021. The PEL Consultant will integrate the work by
multiple parties.
Recommendation 17: Explore FasTracks Options

R TD should w ork w ith CDOT and DR COG to im plem ent Bus R apid Transit
(BR T) projects in the northw est region, beginning w ith SH 119, as identified
in the Northw est Area M obility Study (N AM S) and the DR COG 2050 R egional
Transportation P lan.
In any scenario, RTD needs to pay down its debt before it can build and operate
Northwest Rail. In the interim, RTD should negotiate with the communities of the
Northwest Corridor on how to provide more immediate mobility to the region, such as
accelerating expansion of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), while continuing to evaluate
Northwest Rail options.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD is collaborating with DRCOG, CDOT, cities, and counties to implement the Regional
Bus Rapid Transit Feasibility Study. RTD has committed $30 million for the
implementation of BRT in the SH 119 corridor and is currently working with CDOT on
advancing design.
Performance and Financial Reporting Transparency
Recommendation 18: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

RTD should take steps to provide prominent, accessible and easy-to-understand
financial and performance information for the public, stakeholders, partners, and
elected officials.
Service P erform ance
Operational Effectiveness
•

Increase ridership
o Percent boarding change by mode
• Provide dependable service

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 18

Packet Pg. 113

1.B.1.b

•

Percent of on-time performance by mode
Percent of employee vacancies
Ensure fleet reliability
o Percent of vehicles over their useful life
o
o

RTD Response: Agree
With regard to fleet reliability and the percent of vehicles over their useful life, RTD currently
utilizes the manufacturer/Federal Transit Administration (FTA) recommendation of 12 years
or 500,000 miles as the useful life benchmark in its asset management program for all fixed
route vehicles and 5 years for all non-fixed route revenue vehicles. RTD is developing a
cost/data-based replacement process for all vehicles that will allow RTD to build a strong
replacement strategy. This information can be leveraged in the development of a public-facing
web-portal to showcase RTD’s progress.
System ridership and line level performance will continue to be listed and enhanced with
reports provided to the Board of Directors and listed on the RTD website. Boarding data will
be listed and compared to relevant time periods to provide clear and meaningful depictions
of performance.
Recommendation 19: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

Operational Efficiency
• Efficiently manage finances
o Operating cost recovery ratio
o Percent change in fare revenue
o Percentage of cost per mile as compared to peer agencies
• Achieve outstanding financial performance
• Bond Rating
RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD regularly evaluates service performance for operational efficiency and adjusts
services three times or more annually to adjust as necessary.
RTD regularly achieves outstanding financial performance within RTD’s control and
generally only has the ability to respond to, and not foresee or prevent, external factors
such as economic downturns, pandemic impacts and legislation. RTD has received the
Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) Certificate of Achievement for
Excellence in Financial Reporting for 28 consecutive years. RTD has been very effective
at implementing innovative financial solutions to complete many expansion projects,
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 19

Packet Pg. 114

1.B.1.b

has refinanced debt for interest savings and pursued many other opportunities for
efficiencies and will continue to do so.
RTD was very responsive and successful in addressing the significant unprecedented
impacts of COVID-19 by reducing expenditures while also ensuring the safety of
employees and customers as well as providing uninterrupted vital public transit
services. The FTA has verified that RTD has adhered to all fiscal requirements.
As RTD implements its Strategic Plan and identified strategic priorities and success
outcomes, measurement tools will be implemented.
Pertaining to RTD conducting study and benchmarking against peer agencies specifically
the metric for cost per mile, currently there is no industry standard for whole life cost/cost
per mile. RTD Asset Management and Vehicle Maintenance are currently working on
developing an ISO55000 based whole life cost/cost per mile model that will enable RTD
to compare cost per mile to peer agencies. This project is expected to be completed by
Q2 of 2022.
Recommendation 20: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

Custom er Experience
• Provide an excellent rider experience
• Percent of time passengers are in crowded conditions
• Average facility and vehicle cleanliness complaints per month
• Overall customer satisfaction and/or net promoter score
• Engage with customers
• Call answer rate efficiency (in seconds)
• Average time to resolve customer issues
RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees that monitoring key performance metrics and providing accessible
performance information on the customer experience is critical. RTD has recently
converted to a new customer relationship management (CRM) system through the
Salesforce Service Cloud platform. Staff is now able to capture and report customer
comments, commendations, and complaints in a much easier fashion. Statistics related
to service quality and issue resolution are shared with the RTD Board of Directors
quarterly. These data can be reformatted using Microsoft Business Intelligence (BI)
software to enable to the public to more easily access the information.
With the recent conversion to Salesforce, staff also has enhanced reporting capabilities
that can support publication of service quality-related statistics such as these via a
reporting page on the RTD website. Data on crowding is not available for 100% of
vehicle fleet at this time (currently available on 70% of bus fleet, 100% light/commuter

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 20

Packet Pg. 115

1.B.1.b

rail.) Staff is revising the process to capture and report customer feedback in a more
holistic fashion. Customer Excellence is a strategic priority in the agency’s new
strategic plan, which encompasses customer engagement and enhancing the customer
experience. Moreover the success outcome for the customer excellence priority for
2022 is to establish a baseline for the Customer Net Promoter Score and to increase
that number by five percent.
Recommendation 21: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

Com m unity Engagem ent
At this time, metrics capturing the success of community engagement are not
proposed. While the Committee prioritized this metric area, there are insufficient peer
examples from which to draw. Below is a list of stretch metrics that may be considered
at a later time when there is a better understanding of what success would look like
and/or data becomes available:
•
•
•

Positive contribution to the region
Percent increase in positive public impressions (multi-media)
Number of successful partnerships

RTD Response: Agree
As part of the agency’s recent strategic planning process, key metrics and tactics have
been developed to support strategic priorities and the achievement of success
outcomes. The Communications Department has outlined several activities to enhance
community and stakeholder engagement and metrics to measure the effectiveness of
those activities.
Community engagement efforts serve a number of purposes for RTD including,
establishing relationships, educational opportunities, recruiting new customers and
enriching the experience of existing customers, informing and soliciting feedback or
comment and to create a positive image. The metrics for each of these purposes vary
and are embedded in the goals and desired outcome of the outreach. In the community
engagement/outreach realm, it is often difficult to measure the impact of activities and
the positive influence they have on target audiences.
The current practice is to collaborate with regional partners to expand the reach of
RTD's communication and engagement efforts. Community engagement performed
directly by RTD is monitored and measured to determine effectiveness toward the
intended goal on a case-by-case basis. Primary measures of success may include: the
number of target audience members reached, quality of information exchanged,
amount of input or comments received, and amount of questions or concerns
responded to.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 21

Packet Pg. 116

1.B.1.b

Recommendation 22: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

Equity & Accessibility
•

•

Serve all populations
• FTA Title VI Triennial review compliance
• Percent of customers indicating service frequency meets their needs
Serve all customers
• Adherence to ADA zero denials request mandate Average ADA complaints
per boarding
• Average ADA complaints per boarding
• Equity & Accessibility Stretch Metrics

The Committee noted that the metrics outlined above, while measurable and
applicable, do not capture the full spirit and importance of measuring equity and
accessibility. As such, stretch metrics have been identified for further consideration.
These stretch metrics will require a clear definition of terminology and success. In some
cases, these metrics may require access to data that is not currently available:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Percent of minority/low-income people with access to the system
Percent of households within a 10-minute walk or roll of high-quality mobility
options (consider how affordable housing may also be incorporated)
Average wait time by service mode
Ratio of average fare to national average
Average number of transfers per trip
Calls answered for paratransit

RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD will evaluate and consider each of the recommended metrics for reporting
purposes as the RTD Strategic Plan is implemented consistent with the identified
success outcomes and metrics.
Recommendation 23: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

Environm ental I m pact
•

Protect the environment
o Percent increase of low emission vehicles in fleet

The Subcommittee noted that the metric outlined above, while measurable and
applicable, does not capture the extent to which RTD is impacting the regional
environment. As such, stretch metrics have been identified for further
consideration. These stretch metrics will require a clear definition of terminology
and success. In some cases, these metrics may require access to data that is
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 22

Packet Pg. 117

1.B.1.b

not currently available. It would also be helpful to use metrics that show how
RTD is contributing to already-established regional, statewide, and federal
metrics on ozone and greenhouse gas emission reductions.
•

Pound of seasonal air pollutant prevented (NOX in summer and PM 2.5 in winter)

•

Pounds of CO2 per passenger miles traveled

•

Total facility energy use

RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD will evaluate and consider each of the recommended metrics for reporting
purposes as the RTD Strategic Plan is implemented consistent with the identified
strategic priorities, success outcomes and metrics.
All RTD fixed route vehicles are clean burning diesel or electric. Both types of vehicles
are considered "low emission." All other vehicles meet the emission standards for the
year that they were manufactured. RTD, in partnership with others, also monitors its
impact on regional air quality by removing vehicles from the road and reducing traffic
congestion.
Recommendation 24: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

Safety
• Operate a safe system
o Number of preventable accidents per 100,000 miles
o Number of signal violations
• Keep employees safe
• Number of reported employee equipment accidents
• Keep the system secure
o Offenses per 100,000 riders
o Average response time to emergency dispatch calls
RTD Response: Agree
Operations will work in collaboration with Safety to implement these performance reports.
As part of the strategic plan, staff has created metrics and actions that reduce the number of
preventable vehicle accidents and reduce on the job injuries.
RTD agrees that the Safety and Security Divisions must ensure the safety and security of
its employees and customers. RTD is currently working to address these by committing to
the following:
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 23

Packet Pg. 118

1.B.1.b

•

Leveraging a dedicated Crime and Safety Data Analyst to focus on the collection
of information that will be completely transparent and be utilized to improve
smarter and more focused deployments in the field.

•

Utilizing Emergency Management to assure internal and regional coordinated
response to critical incidents and natural Acts of God.

•

Conduct a system wide safety focused threat and vulnerability assessment to
address impactful methods of reducing preventable injuries and accidents.

Utilize data to expand the level of safety staffing required to consistently work with managers
across the Divisions with a focus on implementation of RTD’s safety management systems and
Public Transit Agency Safety Plan.
Financial Reporting
Recommendation 25: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

P rovide a sim plified version of financial budget inform ation that includes a
sim ple one-page budget docum ent that is m ore accessible to the general
public and easy to follow . Consider use of public focus groups to help craft
content and form at.
Currently, RTD's website provides a great deal of financial information which is
challenging to sift through and understand. While this amount of detailed financial
information may be useful in some situations and should remain available for the
public, RTD should create (and update quarterly) the following:
•

A basic budget document (ideally in a one-sheet format). This should be a
high-level summary document that contains revenues and expenses by
category in relation to the current adopted budget. (provide link defining
key terms)

•

Capital project schedule and expenditure information, updated at least
quarterly.

RTD Response: Agree
RTD currently provides a great deal of information in the interest of public transparency
and recognizes that the information provided can be provided in a more succinct and
user-friendly fashion that is more easily understood by the diverse audiences using this
information
RTD will develop this information to be presented in a more user-friendly dashboard
format that provides information that also reflects key measurements tracking success
outcomes in relation to RTD’s strategic direction
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 24

Packet Pg. 119

1.B.1.b

Recommendation 26: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

P rovide explanatory inform ation on R TD's budget and the process it uses to
form and finalize this budget.
Even in a basic format, financial information can be difficult to interpret. By
supplementing the above recommendation with a high-level summary “translation” of
the budget in easily understood language, RTD can help improve the lay person’s grasp
of the information. Alternative formats, such as videos, also provide viable options. A
layperson's overview of the budget itself would be useful, including available revenue
streams, primary expense categories, and defining terminology such as "Base System"
and "Farebox Revenue." This is also an opportunity to explain the fact that fares do
not cover the full cost of a ride, which is a common misperception. RTD should provide
the following:
•
•

A description of the budget adoption process and the role of the Board of
Directors.
A description of how the budget aligns with RTD's mission and performance
objectives.

RTD Response: Agree
•

See #25

Recommendation 27: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

I nclude financial inform ation on FasTracks that is easy to follow .
Given the public interest in and scrutiny of the FasTracks program, RTD can improve
upon the availability of public access to up-to-date financial information by enhancing
its well-developed FasTracks website to provide this data. The updated information
should describe the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA), how it is used, and any
additional resources that help stakeholders and the public understand the status of
FasTracks projects. In developing this content, RTD should be mindful of public
awareness when using undefined terms such as "FasTracks,” "Base System," etc.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD currently provides a great deal of information in the interest of public transparency for
FasTracks and will continue to update specific information as warranted
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 25

Packet Pg. 120

1.B.1.b

While FasTracks is an RTD capital expansion program, those efforts are part of an integrated
transit system and RTD’s intent is to disabuse the notion that the Base System and FasTracks
are separate or have competing interests and will continue to pursue excellence for the RTD
family of services as a whole
Recommendation 28: Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

P rovide a long-term vision for the use of federal stim ulus funds as they
continue to flow .
To date, federal stimulus money received by RTD from the CARES Act and CRRSAA
has totaled over $430 million. The Agency is also expected to receive a third allotment
from the most recent stimulus package. RTD should provide a quarterly report with a
full accounting on the use of these funds as well as share its priorities for the third
allotment, especially as these funds exceed what is needed to cover base operations
(including personnel costs). Materials should explain restrictions on stimulus dollars
(what they can and cannot be used for) and should provide, where relevant, a
connection to the Committee’s recommendations regarding the use of additional
federal relief funds.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD agrees to continue to provide transparent reporting regarding the intended use
and actual grant draws of COVID-19 relief funding in a timeframe that is relevant to
emerging issues that arise rather than simply on a quarterly basis
This funding is not “stimulus” funding and is not new money available for new initiatives
as is evident in the eligible expenditures promulgated by the FTA as well as the terms
“Relief” and “Rescue” in the titles of each of the apportionments. Rather it is relief
funding in response to the significant declines in ridership and revenues experienced
from COVID-19 of which the intent is to sustain vital public transit services
The future state of public transit and continued funding is far from certain and RTD
will continue to efficiently apply this funding to sustain public transit services and
maintain existing taxpayer public transit investments in a state of good repair

Improve Service to All Riders
Service Delivery
Recommendation 29: Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision

The Committee recommends the following actions to improve fixed-route and
paratransit service provision:
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 26

Packet Pg. 121

1.B.1.b

Accessibility + I nfrastructure
•

Improve accessibility at light rail and fixed route stops. Proposed solutions
include:
• Zero-stair entrance at transit stations.

RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees with the Committee’s recommendation and is committed to continuously
identifying opportunities for improving accessibility for all customers.
All light rail facilities meet or exceed the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities
Act. Access is provided via walkways, ramps, stairs, elevators, escalators and light
rail boarding high blocks. RTD has 9,702 fixed route stops on the streets controlled by
the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), and local cities and counties. RTD
does not have auspices over the sidewalk or the property. RTD collaborates with the
local jurisdiction on making each new or relocated fixed-route accessible. RTD also
provides technical assistance in designing and constructing accessible bus stops. RTD
actively seeks grant funding and partnerships to advance this effort. Recently RTD
received a Safer Main Streets grant from CDOT that will further this effort.
•

Standardize wayfinding signage and directional grooved pavement, ensuring
some level of consistency across similarly designed stations to ensure people
who are blind can navigate transit stations.

•

Improve audio announcement systems to assist those in the blind community.

•

Identify a list of accessibility improvements with disability and mobility
advocates and seek funding to implement these projects, including federal
infrastructure dollars as they become available.

RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD recognizes that promoting consistency to the extent possible across its stations supports
the ability of its customers with disabilities to navigate its transit stations. RTD will reevaluate
the wayfinding signage criteria for the visually impaired communities. RTD last looked at the
directional grooved pavement issue in partnership with the City and County of Denver for the
16th Street Mall Reconstruction in 2018-2019. RTD also looked at this matter over five years
ago. There was no consensus within the blind community at that time about what measures
to deploy. RTD will conduct community outreach to reevaluate whether the visually impaired
communities have a strong preference for any particular solution and to understand their pain
points and issues.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 27

Packet Pg. 122

1.B.1.b

RTD will continue to check if any existing systems on vehicles and within public facilities are
not operating as designed. Desired improvements can vary in scope and complexity to
implement, along with associated financial implications. The time to implement any proposed
improvements will also vary with the complexity.
•

Using existing survey data, work in partnership with municipalities to
standardize and improve bus stop placement to ensure greater accessibility.

RTD Response: Agree
Bus Stop placement is affected by many factors – route efficiency, network
connectivity, safety, adjacent land uses, the roadway geometry and traffic speed,
traffic signalization, land available, and slope of the area. Property owners sometimes
advocate against having a bus stop in front of their property. Local jurisdictions issue
the permits for work on the bus stops and are closely involved in the process.
RTD has standardized bus stops designs, which are published in the RTD Bus
Infrastructure Standard Drawings 2016. An extract is below:

RTD will continue to work in partnership with CDOT and the local jurisdiction on making
each new or relocated fixed-route accessible. RTD uses aerial imagery and site visits
for determining initial placement of bus stops. RTD has 9,702 fixed route stops on the
streets of which CDOT has auspices, and local cities and counties. RTD does not have
control over the sidewalk or the property. Some streets do not have sidewalks.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 28

Packet Pg. 123

1.B.1.b

Recommendation 30: Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision

M ultim odal Transportation
Work with micro-mobility partners and municipalities to ensure transit stations have
diverse mobility options (e-bikes, scooters and other multi-modal devices including 3and 4-wheel for people with mobility issues) to provide customers the last mile
connection.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD will continue to actively work with micro-mobility partners and municipalities to
improve first/last mile connections to RTD facilities. Notable projects already completed
or in progress include: (1) stenciled micro-mobility parking areas at many of its stations
and encouraging operators to locate scooters and/or e-bikes in these areas (2) FTA
Accelerating Mobility Innovation (AIM) grant which will integrate multimodal trip
planning and fare payment with an e-scooter operator in Denver. RTD has an existing
policy in place to enable use by scooter companies.
Recommendation 31: Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision

Service Delivery
• As Reimagine RTD continues its work, have this advisory body focus its
redesign efforts on prioritizing the travel needs of frequent transit users,
including bus rapid transit.
RTD Response: Agree
The Reimagine RTD System Optimization Plan emphasizes service to essential workers
and customers who have continued to utilize RTD’s services post-pandemic. RTD will
continue to work to serve the travel needs of all its customers, including those with
different needs and abilities. RTD works to maximize service to all current and potential
customers. RTD has conducted studies to prioritize the development of bus rapid
transit corridors. RTD will use a Universal design philosophy.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 29

Packet Pg. 124

1.B.1.b

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 30

Source: 2015 District-wide travel survey

Source: Focused 2019 travel survey
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 125

1.B.1.b

•

Work in coordination with municipalities and anchor institutions to coordinate
land use and transportation planning to ensure a comprehensive network of
transit-only lanes on major routes and equitable transit-oriented
developments.

RTD Response: Agree
RTD will continue to work with municipalities to pursue transit-only lanes on major
routes. Denver has designated several exclusive bus lanes in downtown. RTD does not
have jurisdiction over land use but works in collaboration with local jurisdictions to
encourage station area master planning. RTD does not work directly with anchor
institutions but works with jurisdictions and local municipalities who traditionally
coordinate these efforts.
RTD encourages transit-oriented development (TOD) both at and adjacent to its
stations, and has staff dedicated to this effort. RTD staff coordinate with jurisdictions
to support transit-supportive land use, as well as with private developers to encourage
density at stations and reduce parking ratios. Development around stations has been
significant in recent years; within a half-mile walk of high frequency stations, there are
50,000 residential units, 11 million square feet of office space, 1.5 million square feet
of retail space, and over 4,000 hotel rooms.
In February 2021, the RTD Board approved an Equitable TOD Policy that encourages
affordable housing development on RTD land by offering affordable projects greater
flexibility.
•

Support limited access for pick- up by on-demand services like Taxi, Uber, Lyft
and others that are providing transportation for those with disabilities.
Designated areas at the station would help provide a seamless connection for
transit riders.

RTD Response: Agree
RTD stations are designed with a “Kiss-n-Ride” area, designed for public access for
picking and dropping off customers. Taxis, Uber/Lyft and other transportation
providers have this area available to them, as does the general public. RTD will assess
the feasibility of designated spaces by July 2022 and will evaluate access for individuals
with disabilities for access to pick-up areas.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 31

Packet Pg. 126

1.B.1.b

Partnerships
Recommendation 32: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

Partnerships with local governments, non-profits, business, and institutions offer
opportunities to leverage and expand RTD resources and services.
Leverage existing and new partnerships to im prove service efficiency and
grow ridership. RTD should emphasize partnerships with local governments, anchor
institutions, transportation management organizations (TMOs) and employers or
employment centers who have a unique understanding of local mobility needs.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees with the Committee’s recommendation and is proud to be a key partner in
the regional collaboration model the Denver metro area is recognized for nationally.
RTD is committed to continuing to bolster and build partnerships which will be key to
meeting the current and future transit needs and connecting customers to the places
they want and need to go.
RTD is in the process of developing a clear and streamlined process by which local
governments, anchor institutions, transportation management organizations, nonprofits, etc. can submit partnership requests. This will encourage innovation in how
service is delivered while establishing a consistent process and transparent criteria for
review of all partnerships. This process can potentially be applied to all partnerships
that RTD engages.
Recommendation 33: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

I ncentivize com m unities to enter cost-sharing arrangem ents w ith R TD to
provide new or ex isting local transit solutions in an effort to m inim ize
service gaps and increase ridership.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD supports partnerships which utilize grant or local funds to expand service to
customers and communities without negative impacts to existing service. Fiscal constraints
would limit the success of such efforts, and potentially tip the balance of service equity
toward more affluent communities as RTD would need to shift funding away from existing
service to fund such partnerships.
It is more common that the RTD fully fund and operate service in cooperation with
groups that are not local governments, non-profits, business, and institutions. RTD is
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 32

Packet Pg. 127

1.B.1.b

committed to continuing to better understand the transit needs of the communities it
serves and will continue foster collaborative efforts to improve access to transit service
throughout the District.
Recommendation 34: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local transportation services
through collaboration w ith existing m obility service providers (e.g., Via,
Uber, Lyft) in areas w here traditional fixed-route service m ay not be the
m ost appropriate m obility solution. Also, explore opportunities to contract with
other third-party providers that may specialize in a particular service (e.g., paratransit)
at a reduced cost.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD is committed to continuing to explore collaboration opportunities with current and
new third-party service providers. RTD currently contracts with Via for paratransit services.
RTD supported Via’s assumption of the Seniors’ Resource Center (SRC) in 2021 to help
maintain continuity of service. RTD’s paratransit program has contracted with Uber to pilot
an on-demand service to provide service for same-day trips. RTD is developing a Request
for Proposal for 2022 service which will allow for the inclusion of any TNC, Taxi or NEMT
company into RTD customer’s on-demand service solutions.
DRCOG and RTD worked with multiple service providers in the RTD service area to pilot a
Trip Exchange. Branded as Ride Alliance, the pilot allowed service providers to exchange
trips through a shared software platform help meet demand. The pilot concluded in
December of 2020. It was a proof of concept that provided a better understanding of
what works when engaging multiple software vendors, and developed a more concise
scope of work for the soon to be released RFP for paratransit software.
RTD FlexRide entered into an agreement with Metro Taxi at the end of 2021 to
demonstrate a new service delivery model for FlexRide service that both meets RTD’s
customer demand and is more cost-effective.
RTD is working with Boulder County to establish a pilot cost-sharing program to provide
Taxi Vouchers to subsidize service between Lyons, Longmont and Boulder to replace
service that was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The agreement is in process
and will be executed before the end of 2021.
Recommendation 35: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

As m ore federal relief funds becom e available, expand these partnership
opportunities to improve service efficiency.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 33

Packet Pg. 128

1.B.1.b

RTD Response: Partially Agree
Expansion of partnerships are limited, given the need to ensure that operational
partnership must meet the same terms and conditions as RTD when providing service for
its customers. It is unknown whether additional relief funds will be forthcoming. As the
demand returns post-pandemic, RTD will work to identify opportunities which will raise
the bar on efficiency, however, they may not be directly linked to the availability of
additional federal funds. As RTD looks for partnerships which create or allow for increased
efficiencies, such enterprises would allow for either control or decrease costs. Increased
federal funds should not be required to engage in these partnerships.
Recommendation 36: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

Consider developing a com petitive I nnovation Grant program to drive bold
ideas to increasing ridership. Recipients would receive funds to dive deeper into
project concepts and implementation, creating models of innovation for the entire
service area.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD is open to the concept of an Innovation Grant program. RTD had a similar program in the
past related to small, transit supportive, infrastructure partnerships with local jurisdictions. RTD
can explore a framework for incentivizing innovative projects that increase ridership related to
first and last mile and local transit service enhancements. Performance metrics will need to be
established to ensure a strong relationship between cost and ridership. For service enhancements
there will need to be a strong tie to the agency’s service standards. This type of incentive-based
program will require RTD to set aside funds as part of its annual budgeting process.
Recommendation 37: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

Encourage R TD’s public-facing dashboard to include a com ponent that
highlights existing private and public partnerships.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD will include information highlighting these partnerships as it develops and
implements a public-facing dashboard
Recommendation 38: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 34

R egularly evaluate the success of existing partnerships by predeterm ined
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 129

1.B.1.b

m etrics and “re-scope” relationships to ensure m axim um benefit.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD currently completes a thorough evaluation before entering partnerships and will
continue to do so. As mentioned in response to Recommendation 32, RTD is in the
process of developing a new process for both evaluating new partnership requests as
well as evaluating existing partnerships. RTD is limited in the ability to modify existing
contractual relationships and will continue to evaluate and amend existing relationships
where warranted and allowed
Recommendation 39: Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

R TD should pilot First/ Last m ile projects such as the First/ Last M ile R TD
FreeLift Loop partnerships to build ridership, especially am ong
disadvantaged comm unities. FreeLift pilots would serve communities more than a
mile from rail stations and be available only to RTD pass holders. The service would
be operated in partnership with TNCs or nonprofits such as Via Mobility Services and
pick up passengers at designated stops along a designated loop route.
RTD Response: Agree
RTD agrees with the Committee’s recommendation. RTD currently has several pilot
programs to address the first/last mile and is also in discussions with a diverse group of
entities throughout the District about future opportunities to partner with RTD.
RTD continues to look for pilot opportunities for first/last mile projects, especially those
serving disadvantaged communities. In the past, RTD has tried pilot projects in partnership
with local jurisdictions and other entities with both Lyft (Centennial) and Uber (Commuting
Solutions), and is more than willing to look at additional pilots related to first and last mile
in the future. RTD has been coordinating with the City/County of Denver on its E-scooter/Ebike program which requires specific allocations of e-scooters and e-bikes in disadvantaged
neighborhoods.
Fares and Pass Programs
Recommendation 40: Simplify Fares and Pass Programs

RTD's fare structure and pass programs are complex and can be difficult to navigate.
Also, RTD fares are some of the highest in the country. The Committee recommends
simplifying fares and pass programs and making them more affordable to improve the
customer experience and increase ridership.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 35

Packet Pg. 130

1.B.1.b

Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly discounted) fare that
w ould cover equity populations (youth, senior, disabled, and low -incom e).
• Recognizing the potential barriers to free fares, the Committee recommends
consolidating fares as single 50% discount.
• RTD should explore increasing the eligible age categories for free fares up to
middle school or even high school aged youth.
RTD Response: Disagree
Rather than separately addressing its discounted fare programs, RTD is currently
undertaking a first of its kind System-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis consistent
with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and guidance from the Federal Transit
Administration. This study and analysis will include extensive outreach leveraging
culturally specific community organizations including those serving the Black,
Indigenous and People of Color; youth; seniors; people with disabilities; the unhoused;
veterans; and the LGBTQI+ community. (See Appendix __) white paper or other
background information
Part of this endeavor is to assess RTD’s fare structure and pass programs, RTD will
explore the recommendation to increase the discount for LiVE program to 50%.
Recommendation 41: Simplify Fares and Pass Programs

I dentify strategies to sim plify pass structures.
•

•

•

Implement a “family plan” benefit for all RTD pass-holders, where an adult
can purchase fare media using one smart card for their multiple individuals.
Standardize existing group pass programs (EcoPass, NEcoPass, College
Pass) into one brand, EcoPass, which is deeply discounted and focused on
incentivizing use.
o Explore a “pay as you go” pass with fare capping/accumulators.
o Make EcoPass available to every employee in the district (~1.5 million)
through a monthly, per employee transportation fee assessed on
employers.
o Explore the implementation of a recurrent “membership” model.
Incentivize individuals and organizations to purchase passes in bulk by:
o Providing discounts for bulk purchases.
o Enabling contributions to mobile wallets from multiple entities: both the
employee/resident, and from employers/governments/non-profits,
allowing employers to match contributions directly on the pass media of
the employees.
Explore a “connect card” that allows riders to use transit fare across various

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 36

Packet Pg. 131

1.B.1.b

•

entities (for example: CDOT’s Bustang, and microtransit/mobility options).
Replicate pass types on the mobile platform with fare capping/accumulators
(e.g., if you purchase fare amounts that add up to a day/monthly pass,
your fare is automatically converted as opposed to over paying).

RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD agrees that there are opportunities to simplify its pass programs. RTD also agrees
with the intent of these fare program recommendations and will consider them in
connection with its System-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis consistent with Title
VI and guidance from the Federal Transit Administration.
RTD is currently studying or implementing some of the strategies identified. RTD’s
mobile ticketing vendor is currently assessing the feasibility of a mobile wallet feature
for RTD. Following this, RTD staff will be evaluating the cost and feasibility of this
feature for implementation in the future. Last year, RTD was awarded the Accelerating
Mobility Innovation (AIM) grant to update the Transit app to allow customers to plan,
book, and pay for an RTD ticket, CDOT Bustang ticket, and unlock and book a scooter
in a single transaction. The project is currently in the early planning phase with a
target launch date of summer/fall 2022. Finally, RTD will be implementing a new fare
collection system that will include fare capping as described in the recommendation
starting in 2022.
Recommendation 42: Simplify Fares and Pass Programs

Convene com m unity, business and anchor institutions (hospitals,
universities, school districts) utilizing passes on a regular basis to determ ine
updates to the agreem ents.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD staff currently holds meetings and workshops with pass program clients throughout
the year and reviews pass program contracts annually. As part of the agency’s Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis, staff will evaluate ways to enhance engagement with
pass program clients and stakeholders. Staff will consider increasing consistency and
frequency of meetings to promote collaboration with and to hear feedback from pass
program customers.
Recommendation 43: Simplify Fares and Pass Programs

I m plem ent equity in fare evasion enforcem ent.
The fine for fare evasion on RTD services is $75 and is set by State statute. Given that
fare evasion and illegal parking are similar offenses, this raises some equity concerns
that transit riders pay higher fines than car drivers. State lawmakers and RTD should
explore legislation to address this inequity and assure comparable fine levels for fare
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 37

Packet Pg. 132

1.B.1.b

evasion and parking violations.
RTD Response: Partially Agree
RTD does not have authority to set fines for fare evasion. Fare evasion fines are
governed by state statute, which designates failure to present a valid transit pass as a
non-criminal traffic infraction punishable by a $75 fine. §42-4-1416, C.R.S. The clerk
of the court in the City and County of Denver retains fines for violations within that
jurisdiction. The state judicial department retains fines for violations in any other
county. House Bill 2021-1186 eliminated the prior caps on RTD’s authority to assess a
penalty for failure to pay a parking fee at a District parking facility. RTD will consider
the $75 fare evasion fine as it sets future penalties for failure to pay a parking fee.
RTD’s procedures promote uniform fare enforcement, such that when fare is checked
on RTD vehicles, it is done so consistently from one end of a vehicle to the other,
asking all customers to show valid paid fare.
In addition to the forthcoming System-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis, RTD is
assessing methods in which to improve its data collection from the fare evasion
program following a recent peer review conducted by the American Public
Transportation Association of RTD’s transit security model. RTD will explore
opportunities to better understand customer fare evasion practices and to examine
proof of payment outcomes with a focus on equity.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Attachment: Accountability Committee Response - 8.2.21 - DRAFT (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Subject: Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations
Page 38

Packet Pg. 133

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear
2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
service providers in the metro area
4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
If possible, I believe we at RTD should be providing free fares for existing discount
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and groups and a reduced flat fare for all other riders.
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)
5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes
6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)
2 Improve Operator Retention
1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover
2 RTD management should improve its processes to
I heard from several operators when I was campaigning regarding lack of restroom
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest breaks. I agree with RTD's response about a 15 minute break after the end of each run.
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement

Director Bouquet - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Julien Bouquet

Packet Pg. 134

3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
service planning process by establishing Subregional
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
consideration
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-at-large
3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish I would like further explanantion to why Boulder county was listed as it's own subregion
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
and not part of the northwest region?
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
analysis
4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure

If this process would go forward, I believe it should not be the role of the exisiting
accountability committee. In my opinion, this should have been part of the original
scope of the accountability committee.

Director Bouquet - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 135

2 Where problems are identified or in instances where If a problem is not identified, should a committee study even go forward? As a publicythe Board could be operating more efficiently,
elected Board, isn't effectiveness of the Board determined by the voters?
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
I believe this work should fall onto the RTD Board itself, and I believe that studying the
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
Board's structure is already taking place from current Board members.
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
I do not agree with the focus on one particular unfinished FasTracks project.
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project
2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors
3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase non- This should apply to NW rail. We should be utilizing other non-RTD resources to conduct
RTD resources for transit stations including local cost studies or to go forward with these unfinished FasTracks projects.
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships
4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive Again, I do not agree that RTD should use a substantional amount of financial resources
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a for one FasTracks study project.
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor
5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
Director Bouquet - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 136

Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format
2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure

In terms of accessibily, I believe a focus should be directed towards bus stops in
particular. I know RTD might not have the authority over the sidewalks or property
where our bus stops are, but we should take steps to assure that the area around each
of our stops is accessible for all riders. If certain stops lack this full accessibility, we as an
agency need to put pressure on local jurisdictions to fix these stops.

2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership
Director Bouquet - 4

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 137

2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local Partnerships with apps like Uber and Lyft can be beneficial, but I would like to know
transportation services through collaboration with
whether or not people using Uber/Lyft as last mile solutions has had an impact on
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
overall ridership in the long run? I am curious if ride-share companies like Uber and Lyft
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
are taking away riders from RTD through these partnerships.
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution
4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit
8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly As mentioned prior, I believe we should be analyzing free (not just discounted) fares for
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations youth, senior, disabled and low-income riders.
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures
3 Convene community, business and anchor
In my opinion, we should be actively recruiting businesses/communities that are near
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts) light rail stations with pass programs. Specifically, I believe we should be trying to offer
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
discounted passes to businesses/communities based on proximity to a station.
updates to the agreements
Director Bouquet - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 138

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Director Bouquet - 6
Packet Pg. 139

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear
2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
FTA limits how funds can be expended
service providers in the metro area
4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)
5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes
6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)

2 Improve Operator Retention
1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover

Director Catlin - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Director Catlin

Packet Pg. 140

2 RTD management should improve its processes to
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
I appreciate the desire for more local input, but service planning is very technical
service planning process by establishing Subregional and I am concerned that the local planning would be too parochial and not look
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
at the system as a whole
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
consideration
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-atlarge.
3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
analysis

Director Catlin - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 141

4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure
2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
I agree, but RTD should not have to bear the burden of funding all of the studies
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project
2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors

Director Catlin - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 142

3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase nonRTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships
4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive I continue to be concerned that the FasTracks Plan that included enhanced bus
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a service has been overshadowed by the desire to complete all of the rail corridors.
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor

5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
Transportation Plan
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format
Director Catlin - 4

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 143

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership
2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution

4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency

Director Catlin - 5

Packet Pg. 144

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit
8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures
3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements
4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Director Catlin - 6

Packet Pg. 145

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations

General comments: I read this section, and actually the whole report, as an appeal by
the region for our help tackling critical matters like climate change, congestion and
ozone reduction, addressing inequities, etc. Our reply and approach can be more
proactive to reflect our role as a key partner in vital efforts that we also embrace,
rather than only responding to the literal question of do we agree or disagree.

1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear
2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees

Tie the numbers (of employees reinstated) to the cost. How much did we spend and how
many returned? Etc. And display as a dashboard.

3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
service providers in the metro area
4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
Restoring and bolstering ridership is the 'urgent' request made of us. A two-year fare
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and study, while important, doesn't address the appeal being made to us for near term
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the measures to get people out of their cars and make it easier or less expensive for existing
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
customers to ride. What programs, temporary reductions, service changes, broadened
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)
pass provisions or other initiatives can we do in the meantime?

5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes

```

Director Cook - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Shelley Cook

Packet Pg. 146

6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)

2 Improve Operator Retention
1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover
2 RTD management should improve its processes to
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership

On Subregional Service Council recommendations, I suggest we shorten, as in examples
below. Concerned that the extended discussion on our expanded stakeholder listening
sessions muddies the water, needlessly calls into question whether we intend to
implement the recommendation.

3 Develop Subregional Service Councils

Director Cook - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 147

1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
service planning process by establishing Subregional
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
consideration

Agree. RTD agrees with the Committee’s objectives and as discussed in its following
responses to Recommendations 9 and 10, will establish a workgroup of stakeholders to
make recommendations for the role, purpose, operation, composition and boundary
concepts of service councils. (Delete remainder of response.)

2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-atlarge.

Agree. Further, RTD agrees that service planning and development must ensure a broad
spectrum of customer voices and stakeholders are heard and that local service plans
should reflect, to the extent feasible and in keeping with good transit planning principles
including equity, the priorities of the communities and other stakeholders. RTD will
establish a workgroup of stakeholders to make recommendations regarding the
membership on the councils. to consider the role and purpose of service councils,
including the membership on such councils. (Delete remainder of response)

3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
analysis

Agree. RTD agrees with the Committee’s recommendation to establish a workgroup of
regional stakeholders to consider the role and purpose of service councils and to
evaluate the two council boundary concepts of County Boundaries and Travel Shed. As
discussed below, RTD supports gathering service planning stakeholder input through a
Travel Shed rather than a County Boundaries model, but we will make that case with the
workgroup. (Delete remainder of response.)

Director Cook - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 148

4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure
2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
Prior staff input regarding ridership and more, together with previous board comments,
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR) suggest we strongly consider endorsing the NW Rail alignment for Front Range
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable Passenger Rail.
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project
2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors
3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase nonRTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships

Director Cook - 4

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 149

4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor
5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
Transportation Plan
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
7 Safety
Financial Reporting

We're adopting a passel of metrics in our strategic plan. Many of them relate and go
further via tactics. Instead of an item-by-item discussion of all their metrics, can we
reference what we're launching right now, via our strategic planning? Am assuming
that we do incorporate some of their measures, or have measures that more
appropriately capture the interest in efficiency, engagement, etc. (Would do more in
environmental impact, tho.) And will we be reporting these, or key subsets, in a
dashboard fashion that people can follow? We should for sure do and say that.

Let's embrace this piece in particular as key partner in regional efforts to address

Director Cook - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 150

1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format
2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

Here's a prime spot for using some of the $14M set aside in our budget for
Accountability Committee recommendations. For example, on First and Last Mile
pilots, how about laying out guidelines and offering funding to extend this to all areas
of the District, incentivizing communities and TMAs to develop programs? Or creating
an Innovation Fund as suggested? Etc.! ("Urgent, time-limited opportunity...")

1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership
2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership

Director Cook - 6

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 151

3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution

4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit
8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
See above under 8.
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures

Director Cook - 7

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 152

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements
4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Director Cook - 8

Packet Pg. 153

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear
2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
service providers in the metro area

Suggestion: I am not entirely clear on what the term 'share' is intended to convey in the
recommendation. However, by the RTD suggested response, it sounds as though RTD
staff has interpreted 'share' to mean a disbursement of funds. If that is the case, rather
than restate the word 'share' in quotations, perhaps explicitly state what is not
permitted. For example, "As the direct recipient of federal funding, RTD is not legally
permitted to share funds as dispursements; however, it may apply it towards..." Also,
there may be better terminology than 'disbursement.'
Question: Do we have specific projects or requests that we could point to as an example
of what this recommendation is getting at and/or how we have already allocated relief
funds to restore service in collaboration with a transit service provider partner? This
question is not intended to suggest we should include an example(s), but is for my own
understanding and preparation.

4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and
Question: Have we modeled any financial scenarios with modified fare structures
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
(reduced, simplified, etc.) ahead of the System-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
and/or are we developing such models during the analysis to understand what financial
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)
tradeoffs we may have? This question is not to suggest we would include this, but it has
come to my mind as I consider our next steps.

Director Davidson - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Erik Davidson

Packet Pg. 154

5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes

Suggestion: Format 2020/2021 activities and accomplishments as bullet points for ease
of reading.
Suggestion: Consider concluding with RTD's commitment to simplify pass programs since
this is something RTD staff agrees with. It is excellent to see the logic that this is a
win/win: easier for customers and easier for RTD to manage.

6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other Question and Suggestion: When was the LiVE Program Outreach Coordinator (funded by
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)
RTD) hired? If this was recent, consider providing a date.
2 Improve Operator Retention
1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover
2 RTD management should improve its processes to
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
service planning process by establishing Subregional
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
Suggestion: Consider a commitment to soliciting and incorporating direct feedback from
responsibility for developing and recommending
participating customer segments and stakeholder into the stakeholder listening session
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
process (which will be part of our Community Value, and related NPS, goals). I believe
consideration
this is the intent; so, if staff agrees that it is, it would be good to call it out.
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-at-

Director Davidson - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 155

3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
analysis
4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure
2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project

Minor/Stylistic Suggestion: Bullet 5 under the 'County Boundaries Model' subsection
includes a rhetorical question. Consider concluding with a statement such as, "Weld
County only includes portions of Brighton, Longmont, and Erie and thus may be best
combined with Adams County (Brighton) or Boulder County (Longmont and Erie);
however, this would violate the County Council Boundaries Model."

Question: Have we started our pros/cons analysis of the B-Line and N-Line alignments?

Director Davidson - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 156

2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors

Question: Does RTD staff have reference successful TOD projects or TOD guidelines it
could offer up as guidance to local jurisdictions? Or, are there other activities/strategies
defined for encouraging transit-friendly land use? If anything is standard practice or is
intended to be so, this could be stated. Otherwise, keeping this high-level makes sense
before further activities/strategies are developed.
Suggestion: Perhaps reference the response within the eTOD section of the
Recommendation 31 response. While the emphasis is different, it calls attention to our
commitment to eTOD, which may benefit ridership numbers along unfinished corridors especially where we may be able to align our commitment to eTOD with eTOD priorities
of jurisdictional partners where relevant. This may go too deep and be redundant, but
the synergy with the later response struck me.

3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase nonRTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships
4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor
5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
Question: Has RTD been collaborating with CDOT and/or local jurisdictions at this
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
current juncture for the future 287 and/or CO7 projects in NAMS?
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness

Director Davidson - 4

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 157

2

Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4
Community Engagement
5

Consideration: Given that this recommendation includes the language, "accessible and
easy-to-understand financial and performance information," RTD could explore the
development of a simple public-facing dashboard with high-level KPIs like that of the
MBTA (reference: https://www.mbtabackontrack.com/performance/#/home)? Our
finances are complex (especially considering the FasTracks vs. Base accounting despite
their place in a unified organization); however, a simple metric summarizing the use of
taxpayer dollars (the MBTA chooses to highlight its ability to stay on budget) may be of
use. That said, I'm not sure exactly what the problem is here, and getting a proper
definition of this problem to best address it may be an activity planned as part of
achieving/maximizing Community Value.
Suggestion: As with the latter response regarding Recommendation 20, which included
our Strategic Plan language of "Customer Excellence," it may be worth highlighting our
"Community Value" priority in the response to Recommendation 21.
Consideration: Could there be a benefit to highlighting RTD's need to adhere to Title VI
Circular 4702.1B to consider Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden during
Major Service Changes? Perhaps this is too explicit in some ways while not addressing
all issues; however, it does call some attention to why the response is "partial
agreement," given that regulation compliance plays a key role in considering ways to
maximize equity and accessibility.

Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
Note: My comment on the Operational Effectiveness recommendation is relevant and
information to include a simple one-page budget
possibly redundant with this Recommendation 25. Based on the staff response to
document that is more accessible to the general
Recommendation 25, it does seem that we will contemplate some sort of dashboard or
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
similar presentation.
focus groups to help craft content and format
2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Director Davidson - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 158

Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership
2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution
4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant Note: This is a very interesting concept and response. Once the Board approves a
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership. Strategic Plan, we should revisit this concept and its budgetary impacts in 2022.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit

Director Davidson - 6

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 159

8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly Note: I am assuming we will uncover customer needs (and how they differ by segment)
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations throughout the process of pursuing Customer Excellence, which will inform our fare
simplification. This applies to this and the following three recommendations. RTD is
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
committed to pursuing Customer Excellence by soliciting customer feedback and
developing solutions to well-defined customer problems. I think that helps address
these recommendations. I'm sure I am aligned with many of us at RTD and the
community in looking forward to the completion of our analysis.
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures
3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements
4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Director Davidson - 7

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 160

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear

I believe pulic formus should be public fora. Separately, where RTD is already doing what
is asked, this should be made clear early on vs. one line on "RTD will continue to…". This
comment applies throughout the responses

2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
Consider providing a footnote citation that explains where it states we are not legally
service providers in the metro area
permitted to "share" the funding
4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)
5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes

This is connected to Recommendation 4. Have we considered partnering with a
foundation focused on poverty alleviation or education (ie Piton/Gary Community
Investments) to help run these pilots? I am happy to make connections where I am able
and this may be a community supported approach that could achieve a similar result. For
example, we could see if a foundation would underwrite EcoPasses or an annual LiVE
pass for a certain neighborhood, housing complex, etc.

6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at Consider indicating the amount of funding or some proportion of LiVE money that goes
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE to this subsidy we provide to DHS
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)
2 Improve Operator Retention

Director Dishell - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Bobby Dishell

Packet Pg. 161

1 RTD management should take additional steps to
Consider providing a footnote on what Supervisor 101 and Manager Basic courses are
improve supervisory practices around performance and why they are being chosen
feedback to address operator turnover
2 RTD management should improve its processes to
Do we currently provide a referral bonus of sorts for our employees who recommend
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest other employees? (if they stay for a year or something like that). Does RTD currently
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
have an ombuds(wo)man or anonymous hotline for various types of reporting?
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
It is unclear from constituents, and our citizen advisory council, if this makes sense. It
service planning process by establishing Subregional seems to favor the "squeaky wheels". If the purpose is to hear from the community,
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
electeds and others who have easy access should not be included. Instead, this should
responsibility for developing and recommending
truly be the experts - planners, customers, and people who do not use RTD but want to
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
use and have constructive feedback. All others are included in other aspects of service
consideration
planning and favoring their voices too heavily can lead to inequitable outcomes. There
should also be some sort of staggered limit so we do not have people who have been on
and go through the "local government revolving door" for lack of a better term. While
some institutional knowledge is helpful, after a certain period of time people largely lose
touch and decrease outreach. This comment applies to all three recommendations in
this section.

2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-at-

Director Dishell - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 162

3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure

We should use actual travel data, which I believe is the travel shed, vs. artificial political
boundaries

Economic forecasts of the full value add of RTD and being connected to a region would
be great. Direct revenue generated/expenses made does not check out as useful data
from my perspective.

I don't agree with paying for studies that don't actually solve a problem. The Board
certainly needs restructuring. However, many board woes seem to be a factor of the
people, compensation, and meetings/investment required more than any other
sturctural components. This is an issue that seems to plague many local government
bodies. This comment applies to the entire section.

2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project

Director Dishell - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 163

2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors

Is there a way to calculate the soft costs and hard costs that have been spent here
relative to other areas of what we do at RTD? This should be included in a value capture
and considered when and how we decide to allocate staff time. From my perspective, it
seems like the NW Rail, one of the wealthiest and least dense communities, gets a
disproportionate amount of soft costs in the attention it is given. While this is a
longstanding cultural issue, it is one that should be addressed. This is not to say we
shouldn't work with DRCOG and local jurisdictions, but more to say that we should fully
evaluate our resources, capacity, and how the soft costs and hard costs are being
allocated.

3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase non- This sounds like RTD should spend money to figure out how to not spend money…I agree
RTD resources for transit stations including local cost with it, but see comment above. If NW Rail is so broadly desired then perhaps we need
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicto identify our current intake procedure for unsolicited bids or partnerships.
private partnerships
4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive Disagree - spending millions to know that project costs have increased and density has
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a not increased at a clip that would allow us to finance the project seems like a poor use of
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership public funds. That could be free LiVE passes or youth passes allowing our most
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
marginalized and needed populations to get services they need. This could be used to
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both increase or improve service. This could be used for funds to retain strong operators.
near-term and long-term, for the corridor
5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
$30 million out of how much total project cost?
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
Improve
Reporting Metrics and Transparency
6
Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
Understanding the backlog and outstanding O&M costs that we have, combined with
upcoming replacement costs and a possible transition to "clean" vehicles (CNG, electric,
hybrid, hydrogen, etc.) should be presented so people understand the tradeoffs that
would be made for further construction and items of that nature
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
Director Dishell - 4

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 164

5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format
2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure

It is clear that leadership is needed on bus stops. I feel we should convene the crossjurisdictional group to set a plan to move this forward and figure out maintenance. It is
incredibly frustrating for constituents (and me frankly) to always get the runaround on
bus stops, which are one of the main points where individuals interact with our system. I
recognize this is a competing priority with many others. However, continuing to point
and say "not ours" won't solve the problem as everyone continues to do the same thing.
I would be happy to lead here if desired.

2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership

Director Dishell - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 165

2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution
4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant Consider looking at what Denver did to promote internal innovation. I believe Dave
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership. Edinger spearheaded that initiative and it led to many savings across the City. The
program was popularized in 2017ish
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a Consider including past partnerships/programs with a note on either learnings and/or
component that highlights existing private and public how the pilot or partnership is now being integrated
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit
8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures

Director Dishell - 6

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 166

3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements
4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Do we have the authority to choose to not enforce? Ability to work with our lobbyists to
identify people in the legislature to run a bill to reduce the fine and/or ensure no one
goes to jail for not having $3-$5?

Director Dishell - 7

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 167

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations

The gist of this section is in this intro paragraph. It would help the overall tone if RTD
can address the urgency of bringing back ridership and make clear that we share the
concerns. If needed, the response can explain any problems RTD may face (workforce
issues, long-term finances, asset maintenance or other issues).

1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear
2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
service providers in the metro area

Can RTD share some money (freed up by use of federal dollars) with its partners?

4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)

5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes
6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)

Director Guissinger - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Lynn Guissinger

Packet Pg. 168

2 Improve Operator Retention
1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover
2 RTD management should improve its processes to
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
Keep the first two paragraphs and add a sentence at the end: "These sessions could
service planning process by establishing Subregional provide a basis for the councils." Delete the final paragraph.
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
consideration
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-atlarge.

Keep the first paragraph, delete the next three. It makes sense to introduce the listening
sessions here and in the previous section but the repetition and focus suggest RTD may
view these as replacing the local service councils.

Director Guissinger - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 169

3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish Keep the first sentence and delete all discussion of the county and travel shed models. It
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
is premature if RTD is convening a stakeholder group.
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
analysis
4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure
2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
Director Guissinger - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 170

5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
What community or other work does RTD need to do to be able to support the NW Rail
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR) alignment for FRPR? I see the concern of the N line, but completing that project is not
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable nearly the investment of building NWR.
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project
2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors
3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase nonRTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships
4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor

5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
Transportation Plan
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency

Director Guissinger - 4

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 171

Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact

SUGGESTED EDITED RESPONSE: RTD recognizes and takes seriously its role in
protecting the air and climate. RTD will evaluate and consider each of the
recommended metrics for reporting purposes as the RTD Strategic Plan is
implemented consistent with the identified strategic priorities, success outcomes
and metrics. Transportation is the leading cause of GHG emissions. As the 2017
EPA study concluded, however, public transit produces only a very small
percentage (get the number) of the total GHG emissions produced by the
transportation sector. While RTD has applied for a federal grant to help with
renovating the facilities to allow charging and maintenance of more electric
buses and is pursuing options for expanding its electric fleet, there are limitations
in range and maintenance with buses currently on the market. (Note that all RTD
fixed route vehicles are clean burning diesel or electric. Both types of vehicles
are considered "low emission," but RTD is striving to do better.) In the near term,
the mos

7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format

Director Guissinger - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 172

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership
2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution

Director Guissinger - 6

Packet Pg. 173

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit
8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures
3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements

Director Guissinger - 7

Packet Pg. 174

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Director Guissinger - 8
Packet Pg. 175

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear
2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
service providers in the metro area

This is already in place.
This is already in place.
The stimulus funds have specific requirements for use.

4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
I think this may be a good idea to look at once the transit equity analysis is completed.
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and RTD does have a discount program for all the riders listed.
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)
5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes

I do agree that our pass programs are difficult to navigate with stringent requirements.

6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)
2 Improve Operator Retention
1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover
2 RTD management should improve its processes to
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
Director Rivera-Malpiede - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Packet Pg. 176

3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
service planning process by establishing Subregional
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
consideration
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service I want to make sure that the coucils include those who depend on our service on a
councils be representative of the community-atregular basis.
3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
4 analysis
RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure

Director Rivera-Malpiede - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 177

2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
The RTD Board is elected and I think any changes should be done by a vote of the people
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
who elects the board.
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project
2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors
3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase nonRTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships

Director Rivera-Malpiede - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 178

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor

5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
Transportation Plan
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format
2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow

Director Rivera-Malpiede - 4

Packet Pg. 179

4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership
2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
I think that collaborating with communities to provide service to the community is a
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
good idea.
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution
4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit

Director Rivera-Malpiede - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 180

8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures
3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements
4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Note: after reading the recommendations it was clear to me that RTD is already doing
many of the items listed. In additon, the strategic plan will address many of the items
listed as well as our transit equity analyisis. In terms of stimulus funds those dollars have
specific uses that must be adheared to.

Director Rivera-Malpiede - 6

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 181

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear
2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees

Put prominently on our website main page?
Done already right?

3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
How much do they propose? What fixed-route service would they like to cut to pay for
service providers in the metro area
this?
4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
How much does this cost?
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)

5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes

we are studying already

6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at Do we have to hire additional staff? How much does this cost?
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)

2 Improve Operator Retention

Director Rosenthal - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Paul Rosenthal

Packet Pg. 182

1.B.1.c

Yes

2 RTD management should improve its processes to
Yes
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
service planning process by establishing Subregional
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-at3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents

Yes

Would RTD have to budget funds to support these SSC's? Would it be required to make
service changes recommended by SSC's? How many staff hours would be dedicated to
the SSC's? Could DRCOG help coordinate?

yes
Yes

Yes

Director Rosenthal - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover

Packet Pg. 183

4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
If the Accountability Committee found no issues now, why would more time reveal
Committee recommendations to be implemented
otherwise? Not necessary.
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure
2 Where problems are identified or in instances where If the Accountability Committee found no issues now, why do an additional analysis?
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
No structural changes needed, other than what the Board itseld determines may need to
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
change, committee struture etc.
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
Yes, absolutely.
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project
2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG Yes, of course. We do need to also revisit discussions on other unfinished corridors
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
other than the NW Rail line, which we talk about a lot.
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors
3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase non- Yes
RTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships

Director Rosenthal - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 184

4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive Yes, let's do the study that we are about to approve. If we need to do the expanded
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a study and spend $12 million or whatever it costs to do what needs to be done to satisfy
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership this recommendation, let's do it.
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor

5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
Transportation Plan
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format

Sounds good. What's the cost? Is it factored into our 2021 budget and beyond?

OK
OK
OK
OK
OK
OK
OK
OK

Director Rosenthal - 4

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 185

2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and OK
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow

OK

4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow

OK

Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership

How much will this cost? Aren't we doing this already?
How much will this cost? Aren't we doing this already?

How much will this cost? Aren't we doing this already? How will this affect fixed-route
service?

2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
How much will this cost? Aren't we doing this already? How will this affect fixed-route
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
service?
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution

How much will this cost to expand our current programming with Uber, Metro Taxi or
other service providers to cover more of the region, etc?

Director Rosenthal - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 186

4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency

Are federal funds legally able to be spent this way? If so, how much are we able to
legally dedicated to this recommendation?

5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant How much do they suggest to spend?
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a OK
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit
8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities

ok

Don't we do this already with Uber and Metro Taxi? If they wish to expand what we do,
how much money do they propose? What part of the budget for fixed-route service do
they want to cut?

9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly OK
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures

OK, we are doing a fare study already

3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements

ok

4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

I already don't see transit officers on trains any more.

Director Rosenthal - 6

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 187

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Director Rosenthal - 7
Packet Pg. 188

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear

The introduction to this section deserves a response concerning the "time-limited
opportunity" to establish commuting practices through transit.
This section may be a good place to emphasize that RTD is interested inprovided
understandable financil reports.

2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
service providers in the metro area
4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
The response provides a good explanation of the fare study and equity analysis, but does
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and not fully respond to the Accountability Committee's interest in a short-term marketing
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the strategy.
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)
5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes

No need to explain about smart cards here - so second paragraph can be deleted. The
recounting of staff efforts in the third paragraph could be shortened - but it was
interesting to me.

6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)
2 Improve Operator Retention
1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover

It would be appropriate to acknowledge the significance of the audit findings on the
current management and board, and RTD's interest in accepting the recommendations.
The remainder of the response is sincere, but over-long.

Director Sloan - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Marjorie Sloan

Packet Pg. 189

2 RTD management should improve its processes to
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
The stakeholder listening sessions are a step forward, but the effects have not yet made
service planning process by establishing Subregional a significant difference in eliciting meaningful input from localities and other
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
stakeholders. .
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
consideration
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-atlarge.

See above.

3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish It is premature to advocate for the Travel Shed model. The response does not recognize
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
the identity of counties and the abiility of geographic neighbors to work together. This
comprehensively evaluate the following two service response can be much abbreviated.
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
analysis
4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents

Director Sloan - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 190

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure
2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project
2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors
3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase nonRTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships

Director Sloan - 3

Packet Pg. 191

4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor
5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
This response should be flipped -- emphasizing the increase in ridership sought by the
accountability committee and then turning to fleet reliability.
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
This section should be much stronger- emphasizing RTD's commitment to sustainability
and acceptance of the "stretch metrics." RTD
7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format
2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Director Sloan - 4

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 192

Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership

Please clarify the type of cooperating groups that are not local government, nonprofits,
businesses, and institutions? And I don't understand the proposed adverse effect on
equity if the named groups are moving people to government facilities, workplaces, and
medical anchors.

2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution
4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit

Director Sloan - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 193

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs
1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures
3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements
4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Director Sloan - 6

Packet Pg. 194

1.B.1.c

Doug Tisdale
Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear
2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
service providers in the metro area
4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)
5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes
6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)
2 Improve Operator Retention
1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover

Director Tisdale - 1

Packet Pg. 195

2 RTD management should improve its processes to
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for In other words, renegoitiate the CBA?
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
service planning process by establishing Subregional
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
consideration
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-at3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
comprehensively evaluate the following two service
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
analysis
4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input

Director Tisdale - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 196

1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Each of these recommendations remains, as acknowledged in the AC Report, a solution
Committee recommendations to be implemented
in search of a problem.
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure
2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
Not one word is contained in the AC Report about solutions for the other three
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR) unfunded corridors.
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project
2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors
3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase nonRTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships
4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor

Director Tisdale - 3

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 197

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility
6 Environmental Impact
7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format
2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services

Director Tisdale - 4

Packet Pg. 198

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership
2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution
4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit
8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs

Director Tisdale - 5

Packet Pg. 199

1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures
3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements
4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Where is there any indication, let alone evidence, that there is NOT equity in fare
evasion enforcement?

Director Tisdale - 6

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 200

1.B.1.c

Part 1
Financial Review
1 Spend Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds to Rebuild
Ridership & Improve Operations
1 Provide a transparent process and make priorities
clear

I agree with our response just want to make sure we are as clear as possible on our
limitations with federal funds and our challenges such as long-term financial situations
and workforce shortages.

2 Strategically recall previously laid off front line
employees
3 Share federal stimulus funding with other transit
service providers in the metro area
4 Conduct a six-month pilot to rebuild ridership and
attract new riders via a reduced flat fare for local and
regional routes and free fares for all or some of the
discount groups (youth up to 19 years old, seniors
65+, disabled, and low income LiVE)

5 Help rebuild and increase ridership by improving
uptake and ease of use of passes
6 Help fund PEAK eligibility technicians/caseworkers at
county HHS departments to help people through LiVE
enrollment and allow LiVE applicants to prove
eligibility through verification documents from other
assistance programs (SNAP, WIC, etc.)

2 Improve Operator Retention

Director Whitmore - 1

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

Troy Whitmore

Packet Pg. 201

1 RTD management should take additional steps to
improve supervisory practices around performance
feedback to address operator turnover
2 RTD management should improve its processes to
help ensure that bus operators receive adequate rest
breaks during their work shifts, in accordance with
requirements in the Union Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
3 RTD management should improve its processes for
assigning schedules to operators
Governance & Executive Leadership
3 Develop Subregional Service Councils
1 Subregional Service Councils: Revise RTD’s transit
service planning process by establishing Subregional
Service Councils. Service Councils will have
responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s
consideration
2 Membership: The Committee recommends service
councils be representative of the community-atlarge.
3 Districts: The Committee recommends RTD establish Our answer seems to infer (fairly strongly) that travel sheds are greatly preferred. Maybe
a workgroup of regional stakeholders to
this is a bit premature in our answer as we are to have stakeholder meetings in this
comprehensively evaluate the following two service regard.
council boundary concepts to ascertain the best fit
for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils,
community cohesion and RTD staff resources in its
analysis

Director Whitmore - 2

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 202

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

4 RTD Resource Allocation: The Committee
acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling
the mobility needs of Denver area residents
4 Explore Board Structural Modifications Subject to
Additional Study and Input
1 Following a reasonable period of time for the
Committee recommendations to be implemented
and results seen (e.g., two years), investigate the
effectiveness of RTD’s Board structure
2 Where problems are identified or in instances where
the Board could be operating more efficiently,
conduct a deep and thorough study of RTD’s Board
structure in comparison with peer transit agencies
and other agencies within the region
3 Based on the findings of the study, determine if a
new Board structure would better serve both RTD
and the region’s constituents
Resource Prioritization Review & Financial Stability
5 Explore FasTracks Options
1 The Committee supports the Northwest Rail
alignment for the Front Range Passenger Rail (FRPR)
corridor and recommends RTD pursue all reasonable
partnership opportunities with the FRPR project

Director Whitmore - 3

Packet Pg. 203

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

2 RTD should work with local jurisdictions and DRCOG
to explore opportunities for transit-oriented
development and other strategies to increase
projected ridership on the unfinished corridors
3 RTD should investigate opportunities to increase nonRTD resources for transit stations including local cost
sharing, grants, tax increment financing, or publicprivate partnerships
4 RTD should perform a complete and comprehensive
analysis of the Northwest Rail project to establish a
common set of assumptions (including cost, ridership
and timeline), and then engage in a regional
discussion about opportunities and alternatives, both
near-term and long-term, for the corridor

5 RTD should work with CDOT and DRCOG to
implement Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in the
northwest region, beginning with SH 119, as
identified in the Northwest Area Mobility Study
(NAMS) and the DRCOG 2050 Regional
Transportation Plan
6 Improve Reporting Metrics and Transparency
Service Performance
1 Operational Effectiveness
2 Operational Efficiency
3 Customer Experience
4 Community Engagement
5 Equity & Accessibility

Director Whitmore - 4

Packet Pg. 204

6 Environmental Impact

May be a good place to mention transit (even with current technology) is a great tool to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants. Perhaps site study that was given
to the Board a number of months ago…

7 Safety
Financial Reporting
1 Provide a simplified version of financial budget
information to include a simple one-page budget
document that is more accessible to the general
public and easy to follow. Consider use of public
focus groups to help craft content and format
2 Provide explanatory information on RTD's budget and
the process it uses to form and finalize this budget
3 Include financial information on FasTracks that is
easy to follow
4 Provide a long-term vision for the use of federal
stimulus funds as they continue to flow
Improve Service to All Riders
7 Improve Fixed-route and Paratransit Service Provision
1 Accessibility + Infrastructure
2 Multimodal Transportation
3 Service Delivery
8 Leverage Partnerships for Resources and Services
1 Leverage existing and new partnerships to improve
service efficiency and grow ridership

Director Whitmore - 5

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 205

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

2 Incentivize communities to enter cost-sharing
arrangements with RTD to provide new or existing
local transit solutions in an effort to minimize service
gaps and increase ridership
3 Explore opportunities to provide cost-effective local
transportation services through collaboration with
existing mobility service providers (e.g., Via, Uber,
Lyft) in areas where traditional fixed-route service
may not be the most appropriate mobility solution

4 As more federal relief funds become available,
expand these partnership opportunities to improve
service efficiency
5 Consider developing a competitive Innovation Grant
program to drive bold ideas to increasing ridership.
6 Encourage RTD’s public-facing dashboard to include a
component that highlights existing private and public
partnerships
7 Regularly evaluate the success of existing
partnerships by predetermined metrics and “rescope” relationships to ensure maximum benefit
8 RTD should pilot First/Last mile projects such as the
First/Last Mile RTD FreeLift Loop partnerships to
build ridership, especially among disadvantaged
communities
9 Simplify Fares and Pass Programs

Director Whitmore - 6

Packet Pg. 206

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Director Comments (4558 : Response to Accountability Committee Recommendations)

1 Consolidate all discounts into a free (or at least highly
discounted) fare that would cover equity populations
(youth, senior, disabled, and low-income)
2 Identify strategies to simplify and incentivize pass
structures
3 Convene community, business and anchor
institutions (hospitals, universities, school districts)
utilizing passes on a regular basis to determine
updates to the agreements
4 Implement equity in fare evasion enforcement

Director Whitmore - 7

Packet Pg. 207

Board Member Input on Staff
Responses - Accountability Committee
Recommendations
Debra A. Johnson
General Manager and CEO

August 17, 2021

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 208

Overview
§ Nine main categories comprise recommendations
§ Board member comments organized into common themes

August 17, 2021

2

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 209

Federal COVID-19 Relief Funds
§ Sharing funds with external entities
§ Offering short-term fare reductions

August 17, 2021

3

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 210

State Performance Audit – Operator Retention
§ Clarify Supervisor 101 and Manager Training skillset training

August 17, 2021

4

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 211

Governance/Executive Leadership – Service Councils
§ No travel shed or county boundary concept consensus

August 17, 2021

5

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 212

RTD Board Structure
§ Board directly elected
§ Voters’ voice would guide change

August 17, 2021

6

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 213

Resource Prioritization Review – FasTracks
§ All unfinished projects should be considered for future analysis
§ Front Range Passenger Rail alignment determined by a separate entity

August 17, 2021

7

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 214

Performance and Financial Reporting Transparency
§ Strengthen regional leader role addressing climate goals and
transit’s environmental impact

§ Strategic Plan addresses operational effectiveness and financial
transparency

August 17, 2021

8

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 215

Service to All “Riders”
§ Improve bus stop access/customer amenities

August 17, 2021

9

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 216

Partnerships
§ Leverage innovative, outside-the-box mobility solutions partnerships

August 17, 2021

10

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 217

Fares and Pass Programs
§ Fare alignment analysis
§ Leverage strategic plan priorities

August 17, 2021

11

Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 218

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com
Attachment: 08.11.21 Board Member Input on Staff Responses - Accountability Committee

1.B.1.d

Packet Pg. 219

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC)
Report

Committee Meeting Date:
August 17, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
In the early 1990s the Regional Transportation District (RTD) established the ADA Paratransit Advisory
Committee (APAC) to promote i t s effective, efficient, and customer-responsive paratransit services
known as Access-a-Ride.
APAC members engage in dialog with RTD staff on issues, trends, needs, policies, and resources
pertaining to Access-a-Ride services throughout the District and offer a unique perspective with the goal
of continuously improving those services. Paratransit is a demand-responsive transit service required by
the Americans with Disabilities Act. APAC provides input to RTD that is intended to:
• Improve the quality and accessibility of Access-a-Ride services.
• Advance the needs of the disabled customers who rely on Access-a-Ride services.
• Strengthen communication between RTD and organizations that advocate for the needs of
Access-a-Ride customers.
• Promote collaboration, transparency, and information sharing.
• Ensure meaningful and diverse community input, participation, and involvement in RTD’s
paratransit-related activities.
DISCUSSION
Brenda Carney, an APAC member, will provide a summary from the May 11, 2021 APAC meeting and
will be available to answer questions.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 220

1.C.1

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 221

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Transit Asset Management

Committee Meeting Date:
August 17, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manger and CEO
Lou Cripps, Senior Manager, Asset Management
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
Federal regulations 49 CFR Part 625 Transit Asset Management and 49 CFR Part 630 National Transit
Database (NTD) require all transit agencies to develop a Transit Asset Management Plan (TAMP) that
includes an asset investment prioritization process that ranks projects to improve or manage the state of
good repair of capital assets. This TAMP must be shared with the agency’s planning partners, which for
the Regional Transportation District (RTD), is the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the
Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG).
49 CFR Part 625 also requires that the transit agency identify an accountable executive to ensure that
the agency’s TAMP is effectively implemented throughout the public transportation system in
compliance with federal regulations. RTD’s accountable executive is the General Manager and CEO.
The General Manager and CEO has directed the Chief Safety and Security Officer, Assistant General
Manager of Safety, Security and Asset Management to provide regular TAMP status updates to the
Board of Directors.
DISCUSSION
This discussion will include the following:
• TAMP Requirements
• Asset Backlog
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (PDF)

Prepared by:
Lou Cripps,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 222

1.C.2

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 223

Asset Management Mid-Year Review
Lou Cripps – Senior Manager, Asset Management

Aug 17, 2021

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

1.C.2.a

1
Packet Pg. 224

1.C.2.a

Section

Question

Answer

Background

What is the federal requirement?

Develop a Transit Asset Management (TAM) Plan

Intent

Why is there a federal requirement?

Address $100B in public transportation backlog

RTD Perspective

What is RTD’s backlog?

RTD’s backlog is >$290M

Inflection Point

What path does RTD take?

Strategically balances preservation / expansion

Tradeoffs / Next Steps

How does RTD balance preservation /
expansion?

First step, fully understand what is included in the “no”

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

Overview

Relevant information as a Board member and policymaker

Aug 17, 2021

2
Packet
Pg. 225

1.C.2.a

TAM Plan Elements

"Every agency must develop a transit asset management

1 – Asset Inventory

(TAM) plan if it owns, operates, or manages capital assets

2 – Condition Assessments

used to provide public transportation and receives federal

3 – Decision Support Tools

financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53 as a recipient

4 – Prioritized List of Investments

or subrecipient. Each transit provider must designate an

5 – TAM & SGR Policy

Accountable Executive (49 CFR 625.5) to ensure appropriate

6 – Implementation Strategy

resources for implementing the agency's TAM plan and

7 – Key Annual Activities

the Transit Agency Safety Plan."

8 – Identification of Resources
9 – Evaluation Plan

Aug 17, 2021

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

Background – What is the federal requirement?

To develop a Transit Asset Management Plan or TAM Plan

3
Packet
Pg. 226

1.C.2.a

Public transit agencies have historically:

Actions or lack thereof has produced:

▪ Limited strategic asset planning
▪ Information poverty
▪ Overcommitted
▪ Lost sight of public asset responsibility

▪ >$100B in backlog
▪ Greater probability of safety related incidents
▪ Mandated compliance

To address $100B in backlog

Aug 17, 2021

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

Intent – Why is there a federal requirement?

4
Packet
Pg. 227

1.C.2.a

Large-scale rail infrastructure upgrades:

▪ 2000 – Southwest Corridor
▪ 2006 – T-REX
▪ 2013 – W Line
▪ 2014 – Denver Union Station and Free Metro Ride
▪ 2016 – Flatiron Flyer (FF), A and G Line
▪ 2017 – R Line
▪ 2019 – G Line, Southeast Rail Extension (E, F, and R)
▪ 2020 – N Line
RTD’s backlog >$290M

Aug 17, 2021

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

RTD Perspective – What is RTD’s backlog?

5
Packet
Pg. 228

1.C.2.a

Missed opportunity – historical

Opportunity – align, adapt, and evolve

RTD:

RTD:

▪ New assets onboarded without addressing existing

▪ Aligns around mission, vision, values and strategic

▪ Deferred renewal / replacement
▪ Lessons not learned from legacy transit systems

▪ Meets FTA’s requirement to reduce backlog
▪ Courageous decision makers
• Acts as good asset stewards

Increased RTD’s backlog

Decreases RTD’s backlog

needs / backlog

priorities

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

Inflection Point – Change

Path that strategically balances preservation / expansion

Aug 17, 2021

6
Packet
Pg. 229

1.C.2.a

What has RTD said “yes” to?

What is RTD saying “no” to?

▪ Aging maintenance buildings and
infrastructure assets

▪ Revenue vehicle replacements
▪ Aging in-plant and maintenance assets
▪ Technology hardware and software
▪ Aging light rail infrastructure
▪ Aging support fleet vehicles

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

Tradeoffs/Next Steps – How does RTD balance preservation / expansion?

First step, fully understand what’s included in the “no”

Aug 17, 2021

7
Packet
Pg. 230

1.C.2.a

Section

Question

Answer

Background

What is the federal requirement?

Develop & execute a Transit Asset Management (TAM) Plan

Intent

Why is there a requirement?

To address $100B in backlog

RTD Perspective

What is RTD’s backlog?

RTD’s backlog is >$290M

Inflection Point

How does RTD change its course?

Strategically balance preservation and expansion

Tradeoffs / Next Steps

How does RTD balance preservation /
expansion?

First step, fully understand what is included in the “no”

Focus on TAM Plan in October

Aug 17, 2021

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

Overview

8
Packet
Pg. 231

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com

Aug 17, 2021

Attachment: AMD_BoD _Ops_Update_Aug17 (4559 : Transit Asset Management)

1.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 232

