1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, June 3, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice-Chair Gary Lasater called the meeting to order at 5:31P.M. Committee
Chair Hoy was delayed in traffic.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:32 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:15 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:12 PM
5:36 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:25 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:27 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:32 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:28 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Svetlana Grechka, Genevieve Hutchison, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Kirk Strand, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton,
Matthew Helfont, John Kingley, Roger Sherman, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn, Monte Whaley, Bob Wilson

B. CAC Update
Staff informed Committee Vice-Chair Lasater there would be no CAC update.

C. Updates

• US 36 Express Lanes Construction Update
Nadine Lee, Project Manager of Engineering, gave the Board an update on
the US 36 Express Lanes Construction as presented on page 4 of the
FasTracks Monitoring/Government Relations/Planning and Development
Committee Packet for June 3, 2014. The goal of the update was to provide
background, project scope, and next steps. Since the last update to the
Board, activity has centered around:
 Reconstruction of US 36
 Additional express lane in each direction
 12-ft wide shoulders for “Bus-on-Shoulder” operation
 Bridge reconstruction
 Improvements to 12 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) platforms, including new
passenger canopies
 Installation of Active Traffic Management system
 New commuter bikeway
At this time Committee Vice-Chair Lasater ceded the chairing of the meeting
to Committee Chair Larry Hoy. Chair Hoy thanked Director Lasater for
starting the meeting and Nadine Lee for her presentation.
Director Menten asked if there would be any conflict on the commuter bike
path between commuter riders and casual riders. Nadine Lee replied that the
commuter bike path is designed for a maximum speed of 20 miles per hour.
She said she was not sure what the posted mileage would be but noted
posted mileage is usually 5 miles per hour below the design speed. She also

added the path would have 2 foot shoulders – one on each side. Director
Menten then asked if any municipalities use slow traffic signage on their
bike paths to regulate traffic and avoid accidents. Nadine Lee told Director
Menten that she would do the research and provide her with the
information.
Director Daly asked for clarification on the modular passenger canopies for
the BRT platforms. Nadine Lee explained the canopies are modular in design
to provide for potential future platform expansion.
Chair Sisk expressed his thanks to Nadine Lee along with Bill Van Meter,
Assistant General Manager of Planning, and Chris Quinn, Project Manager
for Planning. He also thanked every staff member who has worked on this
multimodal project. He shared his excitement on the project coming
together on schedule and under budget. He congratulated the staff on their
communication with the stakeholders which has allowed for better
communication between the Directors and the stakeholders.
Director Hoy thanked staff on their efforts and expressed the Directors
appreciation, especially those Directors whose Districts are along US 36
Corridor. He noted the importance of the McCaslin Diverging Diamond
Interchange (DDI) as it is one of the first of its kind in the nation. He
inquired about its opening date. Nadine Lee replied that she will
communicate with CDOT and inform the Directors of the timeline. She
explained that the opening of US 36 will involve public education campaigns
as many of the features will be new to the public. Director Hoy noted that
the stakeholders are also interested in the timeline.

D. Other Matters
Chair Hoy confirmed there was no CAC update. He invited the Directors to attend
the next CAC Quarterly Meeting on June 18 from 6:00 P.M. to 8:00 P.M. at the
Boulder County Justice Center.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 1, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 5:53 P.M.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

