Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March
4, 2008
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

March 4, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, March 4, 2008 at 5:36 pm.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Others Present:

Chairman Quinlan, Directors; Christopher, Busck, Daly, Kemp,
McMullen, Brohl, Yamrick, Tayer, Ruchman and Martinez.
Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Susan Wood, Bill
VanMeter, John Shonsey, Cal Shankster, Henry Stopplecamp, Pauletta
Tonilas, Reed Everett – Lee, Brian Middleton, Paula Perdue and Lisa
Trujillo.
****

1.

Call to Order

2.

Updates

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 5:36 p.m.

 General Counsel Update
Marla Lien, General Council, indicated that we have made good progress with
Burlington Northern and Union Pacific in the past couple of weeks. Staff met with
Burlington Northern last Wednesday – went over two potential operating plan
scenarios, one that would allow double tracking to Boulder and single tracking to
Longmont and discussed service implications. The cost has not been determined.
RTD has received from Union Pacific, preliminary evaluations on right of way that
they are willing to negotiation on now that relocation is not being discussed. We
have questions on how they arrived at the costs. RTD staff is going to Omaha
next week to meet the internal appraisal staff – who formulated cost estimates.
Cal sent out this clarification: The 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. window where we
cannot operate due to train maintenance and freight requirements will only apply to

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March
4, 2008
Page 2
the Longmont segment. The Boulder Transit Village to DUS segment of the NW
corridor is being negotiated to accommodate all day service. We have yet to
finalize the cost of tracks, switches, signals etc. but BN has committed to
negotiate that operating scenario. There was some confusion last night about the
Longmont segment and the rest of the line and I hope that this clarifies that we are
still pursuing uninterrupted service on the Boulder to DUS segment.
Director Christopher asked if there is any new news regarding DUS – Marla
indicated that we do not have a financial plan from the City of Denver yet.


Review of TOD Policy
Cal would like to call the board’s attention to the TOD Policy. He has been at
Legislature quite and bit lately and has heard a lot of misinterpretation. He
would like the board to take a look at the wording. There is no action required
tonight. Staff will come back in the next month with recommended changes.
The term land banking has been interpreted in different ways, what was meant
by it is – that the property will be available in the future to build more parking.
Bruce Daly requested a copy of the reply from the Transportation Committee
clarify misunderstandings. Cal will provide a copy to the full board.
Cal asked the board to refer to section four – it is more controversial.
The term land swap has also been misinterpreted. Clarification is also required.
Chris Martinez requested information that demonstrates our track record.
Bruce Daly questioned “Where are the other Cities, DRCOG and Communities”.
Bill Christopher indicated that the City of Westminster has shown support.
Director Christopher encouraged staff to send the fact sheet to Business
interests and Economic Development Groups.



Review of Property Acquisition Fact Sheet (handout is available in the
minute book). This item was incorporated in the discussion above.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March
4, 2008
Page 3
3.

Other Matters
Cal - Every year we are required to submit an RTD FasTracks update to DRCOG. Some
Boulder staff people went through it line by line and some misinterpretations were
made. Cal indicated that there were no changes with money allocated to BRT. The
line that was misinterpreted reads – “it is still subject to negotiations with CDOT”. The
money is still there and still resident in the FasTracks budget. This issue has since
been resolved with the staff that raised issue but a memo had already been sent to the
Boulder Daily Camera.
A follow-up meeting was held; in attendance were Kemp, Tayer, RTD staff and reps of
local group. By this time we were fielding a barrage of questions and issues. The short
version is if the staff people involved would have made a call; all this could have been
averted and there would have been no story.
We are back where we need to be – everyone understands the numbers.
Director Tayer thanked Cal, Liz and John, for handling the situation. Hopefully the
communities and all involved have learned that open communication will address these
types of situation it eh future.

4.

Next Meeting Date
The next meeting is scheduled for April 1, 2008.

5.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 6:05pm.

