Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, August 4, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 6:24 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:28 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:23 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Committee Chair

Present
Present
Present

6:25 PM
6:23 PM
6:23 PM

Tina Francone

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:24 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:24 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Absent
Absent

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:24 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:23 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:24 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:24 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:27 PM
6:24 PM

Directors James and Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Heather Copp, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Svetlana Grechka, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee,
Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Tony McCaulay, Pat McLaughlin, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed,
Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Mike Turner, Bill
Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Alessandra Desiderio, Mike Dino, Jane Donovan,
Sherman Hamilton, Dave Sachs, Roger Sherman, Jeanne Shreve,
Cyndi Stovall, Karen Stuart, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman, CRL, stated that tomorrow, August 5, is the day that
candidates can officially pull petitions and start collecting signatures for the
November election. He said August 25 is the last day that petitions can be
turned in to be certified. He shared that CRL has begun creating candidate
profiles for those that they know are running. CRL will provide the Board
with a full and final list after August 25 when the candidates have been
certified.
Roger Sherman informed the Board that he took a tour with the Office of
Economic Development and International Trade (OEDIT) of the East Rail Line
and Denver International Airport Hotel. He explained that Jeff Kraft from the
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee works for the OEDIT and
coordinated a tour for their office. He said there were about thirty people
from OEDIT along with Consuls from Japan, Mexico and Canada. He
thought the tour allowed for some great interaction on behalf of RTD.
Roger Sherman shared that tomorrow the Metro Mayors Caucus will be
meeting. He was hoping to report that Senator Bennet was in town to talk
about transportation funding but at the last minute was unable to attend.
He anticipates they will reschedule the discussion and will keep the Board
informed.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna, reminded the Directors that the
Council of State Governments West was recently in town. She shared that
they really wanted to focus on the transportation successes of the region in
a very challenging transportation funding time. She thanked the Directors
that attended the breakfast.
Jenifer Brandeberry noted that since this is a non-election year the general
assembly are either taking time off or attending conferences. There will be
several more Transportation Legislation Research Committee meetings in the
fall. She believes that transportation will be a big issue during the upcoming
legislative session.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, informed the Board that the Senate is still
in Washington, D.C. They decided to stay an extra week as opposed to the
House that is already on break. He said that as everyone knows at this
point the Senate was trying to be very ambitious with a long-term, six year
transportation funding plan but that did not happen as the House had no
intention of doing a long term bill.
Mike Dino explained that the biggest issue still to be resolved is how to fund
a bill that goes beyond three months. The House Republicans still want to
use a one-time repatriation tax but the Senate Republicans do not agree;
they would like to pay for a bill through the General Fund and offset it by
other tax measures. Mike Dino stated that there is no real plan to move
forward.
Mike Dino said that early in the year the House and Senate were working
together and it appeared that Fiscal Year 2016 appropriations might happen
before October; however, that is no longer the case. Mike Dino believes
there will be a continuing resolution. He noted that one small piece of good
news is that the Senate appropriations bill did have good funding increases
for transportation. He hopes there is renewed vigor in trying to solve their
issues when the House and Senate get back from Labor Day.
Director Folska wondered if Mike Dino had a sense if a broader definition of
Bus Rapid Transit would be included in a new transportation bill. Mike Dino
shared that Squire Patton Boggs was able to present a new BRT definition to
Senators Gardner and Bennet; however, rules imposed by Senator Leader
McConnell were that there would only be two amendments to the bill. He
knows that they will continue to lobby for those changes to be an
amendment and Squire Patton Boggs will continue to lobby that as well.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone thanked CRL, Brandeberry~McKenna, and Squire Patton Boggs
for all their work on behalf of RTD. She has received comments at the Federal,
State and Local levels just glowing about their efforts. She also thanked Megan
Wagner, Brendeberry~McKenna, for her work during the Council of State
Governments West event. She thought it was a wonderful opportunity to network
with other legislators and showcase what RTD has done.

E. Next Meeting Date - September 1, 2015
F. Adjourn
Director Folska adjourned the meeting at 6:41 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

