1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 15, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Sisk requested everyone to rise for the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Title
Director, District L
Director, District H

Status
Present
Present

Arrived
5:11 PM
5:28 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:31 PM
5:32 PM
5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:34 PM
5:36 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:28 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:30 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:26 PM

Paula Perdue made roll call. There were fourteen (14) Board members available at roll call.
Director Menten arrived after roll call.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht,
Ken Fleck, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Dontia Jones, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya
Shrestha, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Kevin Abels, Regan Byrd, Andrea Chiriboga-Fler, Dave DeLay, Davian
Gagne, Alec Garbini, Maggie Gomez, Doug Gragg, John Hurtado,
Christine Jarlstrom, Rita Kahn, Scott Kerr, Dawn Marquantte, Chelsea
Solano, Shane Tempel, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Dace West,
Monte Whaley, Zoë Williams

Retiree Awards
There were no retirees in April. However, Director Sisk acknowledged the hard work on a
daily basis of all the employees and what they do to make the agency look good. The
employees are quintessential to the success of this agency and represent what RTD stands
for. On behalf of the Board, he provided our thanks for all that they do.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Sisk wished everyone a happy tax day and opened up public participation. He also
wished them a happy Passover and Easter Sunday, or whichever way they celebrate.
 Doug Gragg, Denver stated that RTD needs to abandon zones. Zones are confusing
even to the drivers. Next month he will have one of the college students draft his
speech and he will be much more elegant; for today he thinks fares are too high.
We need to lower the fares for the working class, especially as you consider their
low wages and what percent of their wages have to go to transportation.


Dawn Marquantte, Aurora, spoke of the hardship she is experiencing since her car
broke down. It is extremely difficult and costly to get her kids back and forth to
school and their activities. She often has to make a decision on to walk or pay up
to $9 per day to take the bus. Her daughter’s school attendance has been affected.
She does not qualify for the discounted program option. This is an issue that not
only is she struggling with but other families as well.



Christine Jarlston, Denver, indicated that she is a college student at the University
of Denver majoring in social work. Right now she receives access to public
transportation but is concerned that after she graduates and in that interim period
of job search, she will be left without transportation options. She has chosen her
field as a way to help people but notwithstanding, this is a low paying field. She is
concerned about the need for accessible and affordable transportation options.

VI.



Regan Byrd, Centennial, also spoke about the challenges with public transportation
and lack of access to vital areas. The current zoning system from where she lives
would require an express pass of $12 per day and would easily become cost
prohibitive. She encourages RTD to seek more specific input on the structuring of
routes and fares which include users of the system who are affected. She
encourages more stable routes and encourages RTD to look at income-based
passes.



Zoë Williams, 9 to 5 representative, spoke to the challenges of women in general
and access to affordable transit. She spoke on the role of women as primary
providers in low-income households living below the poverty level. She thanked
RTD, Board members and staff for meeting with them and hopes they can continue
to have meaningful and productive dialogs. She believes the qualitative stories that
were heard from the women today helps makes this crisis more real and outlines
the issues of providing affordable transit priorities for low income, working women.



Scott Kerr introduced himself as a frequent rider of the RTD system-W Line. He
works with Bayaud Enterprises, an organization that works with people
transitioning from homelessness. These people need access to affordable public
transit. When you look at what they make, having 2 hours pay a day from their job
for public transportation, creates an unfair burden on those who are trying to get
back on their feet. They have a contract with someone in the hospitality industry
in the Denver Tech area; however, getting workers to that location is a real
challenge especially when they are challenged on how to pay for the pass or
arriving to work on time. We need to focus on creating a win-win situation and help
to solve the transportation crisis.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Director Bagley, Chair of the GM Oversight and Performance Committee, reported that the
1st quarter online surveys had been sent out and were due back on April 28, 2014. This
survey included activities and accomplishments from the GM (i.e. agency) from the third
quarter 2013 to the 1st quarter 2014. The next survey will come out in October for the 3rd
quarter, 2014.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 25, 2014
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the minutes from
the Board meeting of March 25, 2014.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor and 1 abstention (Director
Anderson who had been absent at the previous Board
meeting).

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [14 TO 0]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Lorraine Anderson
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Sisk provided the following updates:
 The Road Ahead workshop in Glendale was attended by a number of RTD Board
members (James, Bagley, Folska, Rivera-Malpiede and Sisk)
 The March 29 Cesar Chavez dinner was well represented by Director Solano who
purchased a table. Other Board members in attendance were Directors Deadwyler,
Folska, Daly, Rivera-Malpiede and Tobiassen. Former Secretary of Interior Ken
Salazar was the guest speaker.
 Several Board members attended the annual COMTO Scholarship Banquet at the
Hyatt on Friday the 11th. This was a wonderful event for a wonderful cause
supporting outstanding students who are interested in transit related fields. All of
the students had a good story to share and spoke so eloquently. He thanked

General Manager Washington for his vision as one of the founders of this
organization Colorado Chapter.
 On May 15, Director Folska will travel to Portland to receive an award from the
International WTS organization as the winner of the Rosa Parks Diversity Award.
 April 26 begins a series of events to celebrate the grand opening of the Denver
Union Station Bus concourse. This is employee day and the employees will have a
chance to come out to view the facilities and to enjoy the festivities. May 8 is the
DUS gala which is a sponsored event by invitation and everyone has to purchase a
ticket. May 9, 8:00 a.m. begins the P3 Roundtable discussions which will
culminate in the grand opening and ribbon cutting ceremonies around noon. Board
members are encouraged to sign up for this event.
 May 2-Director Daly will attend the Bus and Paratransit conference in Kansas City
MO.
 April 22 is the Board study session in which the General Manager will present his
tactical plans for 2015.
 April 29 the Board will have a Board meeting effectiveness workshop.
 May 9, p.m. the Aurora Chamber of Commerce Dinner and Silent Auction will take
place.
As one can see, there is a litany of events occurring for the remainder of April and May.
Board members volunteer their time and services to these events and he looks forward to
a successful grand DUS opening.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Washington provided the following report:
 RTD has been asked by the Downtown Denver Development about the 16 Street
Mall Transit closure on the 2nd Sunday of the month in July, August and
September. This is in celebration of the Viva Street Initiative promoting health and
fitness.
o Board member Anderson inquired about concerns on possible visitors on the
16 Street Mall who may not be mobile-are there any provisions for these
users? General Manager Washington responded they are thinking this
through.
o Director Daly asked if the drivers on the mall would take a financial loss.
General Manager Washington replied they will not have to take a financial
loss and would be redirected to other routes.
o Director James wanted more information about this Viva Initiative and
indicated we can be a good partner in this initiative.
o Director Lasater expressed that the 16 Street mall shuttle is an attraction for
people visiting from out of town. He wondered if DDP had worked with our
Tourist arm (Visit Denver) to look at possible impact on tourists for these

o
o

XI.

days in question. General manager Washington indicated that DDP was
working with various entities affected to minimize impact during this time.
Director Deadwyler asked if the closure would be for all day. The preferable
closure would be 8-5 so some of the day could be recouped.
Director Menten asked about the financial impact to RTD. General Manager
Washington indicated that RTD will not be making any financial contribution
to this effort.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Sisk indicated that there were no items for unanimous consent. He also reminded
the Board members that if an item appears on unanimous consent, they can request it is
moved to recommended action for further discussion.

XII.

Recommended Action
A.

Approval of Funding for Light Rail Storage Tracks

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve funding for the construction of light rail storage tracks as part of the I-225 Rail
Line project. The storage tracks are estimated to cost $12 million which will be funded by
the overall FasTracks program. The storage tracks are needed to add reliability to the
entire light rail system.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve the funding for the
Light Rail Storage tracks.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow indicated that she would be a no vote on this item.
While she recognizes the value, she is coming from one of the
unfunded corridors and feels it is a disservice to her constituency to
use the money in this way instead of putting it toward the unfunded
corridors.
Director Solano indicated that he will also vote no. This feels to him
like robbing Peter to pay Paul. While the North Metro has been
approved, he sees little evidence of construction. He does not want
to shortchange the North Metro or northwest so until he sees
progress, he will vote no.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler,
Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen and
Walker) and three against (Lubow, Menten, Solano).

RESULT:
PASSED [12 TO 3]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
B.

Adoption of 2015 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the attached 2015 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7. There are
23 performance measures in total.
Primary Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the
adoption of the 2015 Performance Measures.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Friendly Primary
Amendment:

Director Lasater made a friendly amendment to change
item 4.1, average TIC speed to answer, from the
proposed goal of <75 to <65 seconds.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion on
friendly Primary
amendment:

Initially Director Anderson as mover of the primary
motion accepted the friendly amendment but later
retracted.
Director Lasater indicated that he had several
conversations with staff and they had concur to change
the goal for 2015. Many of the concerns expressed
were for 2016 so they think the <65 is doable for
2015. Scott Reed, AGM, confirmed that they had taken
a look at this goal and concur for 2015. However,
given all the proposed changes for 2016 (i.e

technology, space, facilities, etc) they want to review
this goal for 2016 and make possible adjustments.
Director Menten inquired if there are any negative
impact or if they will need to hire additional people,
seek space, etc due to a lower goal (< 65 sec). Scott
Reed indicated it would not for 2015.
Director Walker expressed some discomfort with
lowering this goal without a good baseline.
Director Solano indicated that he could not support
this. He is concerned about the unionized employees.
This will put undue demand on the employees, concern
over equipment, comfortable working environment,
ergonomic concerns, etc. AGM Reed responded they
are already in the process of looking at a lot of things.
The performance measures are management tool. They
believe the <65 is attainable.
Director Deadwyler inquired if they were achieving the
goal today. AGM Scott Reed indicated yes. Director
Deadwyler expressed that union employees have a lot
of pride. She believes they are setting the goal where
it is achievable for the employees.
Director Daly expressed more concerns about the
working environment (i.e. crowdiness, etc)
Vote on Friendly
Primary Amendment:

The friendly amendment passed with 8 in favor
(Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk
and Walker) and 7 opposed (Anderson, Bagley, Daly,
James, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, and Tobiassen).

RESULT:
PASSED [8 TO 7]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Walker
NAYS: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, James, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tobiassen

Chair Sisk declared the friendly amendment to change item 4.1 of the performance
measures to <65 sec for 2015 PASSED.
Secondary Amendment
To Postpone:

Discussion:

Chair Sisk made a motion to postpone item 3.1,
system wide-on- time performance with no date certain
until further information about this measure is provided.
Director Folska seconded the motion.
General Manager Washington indicated that staff
usually does due diligence in getting information to the
Board members in a timely manner for them to make
decisions. He apologized that this items had slipped in
the cracks. They believe that changing this measure is
the right thing to do and they will provide further
information on the reason why. They do not want to
ram this through and therefore they concur with this
motion to postpone until later in the summer when they
will bring it back with other measures.
Director Deadwyler commented that she believes the
whole Board action should be tabled until further
consideration. However, this is not a motion.
Director James inquired if bringing this back at a later
time will provide sufficient time for discussion and
implementation. GM Washington clarified the action
was only to postpone item 3.1 and all the other
measures would move forward as amended.
Director Lasater commented that he had discussed with
AGM Abel who feels bad that this information was
delayed. However AGM Abel has several good reasons
why this change is important and needed. He believes
the Board can make better decisions when this
information is received.
Director Hoy asked for a clarification on when that
information would be forthcoming.

Vote on Secondary
Amendment to Postpone:

The motion to postpone passed with 14 in favor
(Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 1 opposed (Anderson).

RESULT:
PASSED [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Lorraine Anderson
Chair Sisk declared the motion to postpone item 3.1 with no date certainty PASSED.
Vote on Original
Primary Motion as
Amended:

The motion to adopt the attached 2015 performance
measures for goals 1-7 including the modification of
item 4.1 to < 65 seconds and to postpone item 3.1
with no date certainty passed with 13 in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen and
Walker and 2 opposed (Deadwyler, Solano).

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 2]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

C.

Approval of contract award for Light Rail Training Simulator

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to approve a contract
with OKTAL in an amount not to exceed $1,543,000 to procure and install a Light Rail
training simulator at the Elati Light Rail Facility.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
contract award for light rail simulator.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen and Walker)
and 1 opposed (Menten).

RESULT:
PASSED [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Old Business
There was no old business.

XIV. New Business





Director Folska asked the AGM, Rail Operations, about the dog who rode for free
on the light rail. This was a personal interest story in the Denver Post.
Director Walker shared that he had used a divergent diamond highway when in
Grand Junction. This was a much simpler experience than he had imagined. He
thinks the divergent diamond going into Boulder will work great for commuting.
Director Walker shared that he had received calls from students at Metro State
interviewing him about being a Director. Others added that they have also received
calls or performed personal interviews with students as well.

XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:45 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

