Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, January 10, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 7:29 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
7:25 PM
7:20 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:19 PM
7:20 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Committee Chair
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

7:20 PM
7:22 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:20 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:20 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

7:20 PM
7:19 PM

Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District D

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:21 PM
7:20 PM
7:22 PM
7:19 AM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

7:24 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie
Carter, Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Hersey, Janet Huhn, Ali
Imansepahi, Tina Jaquez, Russ Larson, Shontel Lewis, Adrian
Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Barbara
McManus, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Lindsey Smith, Henry Stopplecamp,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Allen Archer, Stephanie Bender, Jenifer Brandeberry, Ruth
Broom, V. Duncan, Kristina Evanoff, Emily Glockman, William
Gross, Joni Haughty, Tom Hertner, Claudette Hertner, Kathy
Hoy, Peter Humphrey, Rachel Johnson, Sally Jones, Alex
Khaldy, Jamie Lewis, Susan Macey, Angie Malpiede, Liz
Mihalik, Kelly Mihalik, Kathleen Osher, Jamie Perkins, Dave
Sauls, Jim Schlote, Sabine Shaikh, Roger Sherman, Jeanne
Shrove, Shannon Slack, Karen Stuart, John Thompson, Joe
Tripplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
Roger Sherman from CRL Associates extended his congratulations to the
new and re-elected members. Mr. Sherman stated that not too much
happened over the holiday season; however, transportation is the prime
focus. He mentioned that he was going to be attending the Metro Mayor’s
Caucus on Saturday, January, 14, 2017. Lastly, Mr. Sherman stated that
he plans to guide and counsel the poll and share the results upon its
completion.
Director Francone asked a question about an article she read that Denver
City Council approved $1 million for transportation for the homeless; she
asked Mr. Sherman if he had any additional information on that matter.
Mr. Sherman replied that he did not have any information but he would look
into it and report back to the Board.
Director Lubow asked Mr. Sherman if in his conversations the completion of
FasTracks has ever been discussed. If not, Director Lubow asked that che
please raise this to their attention.

Mr. Sherman responded that there would need to be a new funding stream
that would ultimately have to be approved by the voters. Transportation is
definitely on the top of everyone’s agenda; however, he does not have
enough information and deferred to Jenifer Brandeberry to share any
additional information during her segment of the meeting.
Director Tisdale stated in the interest of full disclosure he wanted it to be
made know that he will be attending the open public session of the Metro
Mayor’s Caucus Retreat on Saturday, January 14, 2017.
Director Sisk stressed the importance of rebuilding our relationship with the
Metro Mayors’ Caucus.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry of Brandeberry McKenna offered her congratulations to
the new and returning Board Members. She stated that on Wednesday,
January 11, 2017, the General Assembly convenes and that one of the high
priorities is an attempt to get Democrats and Republicans to come together
in a bi-partisan way to put together transportation funding proposal to refer
to the voters. She reminded the Board that the Republicans control the
Senate. Ms. Brandeberry stated that some of the legislators think that any
monies directed towards transit is a dime too much. She also explained that
it is going to take some strategic negotiations and conversations to get buyin. She remarked that it is good that President Grantham and Speaker of the
House have been meeting with a small group of stakeholders. This small
group is compiling a handful of ideas of what the proposal could look like
and helping craft universal polling questions that are not driven strictly by
the Front Range. Ms. Brandeberry stated there is an agreement that new
revenue streams are needed; however, diverting monies from the General
Fund could harm the Democratic Party because those monies could be pulled
from Education. Ms. Brandeberry urged us to all work together as part of a
statewide team because it is a high level topic that may take time to get
funding for.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino of Squire Patton Boggs echoed the congratulatory sentiments of
everyone before him. Mr. Dino said that Congress started up a week ago
and during his visit to Washington D.C., he believes that everything went
positive. He stated that both U.S. Senators Bennett and Gardner have a
good relationship and believes they will work well together. Mr. Dino stated
2017 full budget has not been approved yet because Congress is in a
Continuing Resolution phase due to the Presidential transition and that parts
of the budget will be approved mid-March. He said Elaine Chao is well
respected on the Hill and will have any easy transition into her role as
Transportation Secretary. He also stated that tax credits will be a big part

of President Trump’s plan which could help fund big infrastructures. He also
mentioned that earmarks will not be returning.

D. Other Matters
Director Sisk stated that he attended the 36 Commuting Solutions 8th Legislative
Breakfast; along with Directors Hoy, Lubow, and Tisdale. The breakfast focused on
the monies Colorado spends on transportation in comparison to other similarly sized
states. Director Sisk stressed the importance of the Board of Directors being
involved in the on-going discussions with legislators and Stakeholders to ensure
constituents are knowledgeable about the importance of transportation issues.
Director Francone reported out on the legislative breakfast that she and Kent Bagley
attended on Thursday, January 5, 2017. She stated that transportation was at the
top of both party’s agendas. During the breakfast Representative Neville pointed
out that the budget for Colorado over the past couple of years has double;
however, there hasn’t been an increase to transportation. Director Francone
mentioned the importance of breaking the misconception that RTD is using all the
transportation dollars in the budget. She asserted the fact that RTD has successful
P3 projects and that planners at the local, state, and federal level should be looking
towards us for assistance. Director Francone also wanted to remind everyone that
there will be a legislative meet and greet on February 8, 2017 at the Cooper
Lounge. Chair Folska secured the lounge for the event at no cost.
Director Menten asked Mr. Sherman if the polling was going out to the public or
just to within specific areas. Mr. Sherman replied that it will be polling of voters.
Director Menten also asked who is going to be funding the polling project. Mr.
Sherman responded that there are a number of different entities that are paying for
the polling projects from non-profits to other government agencies. Director
Menten wanted to know what level of results the Board will be receiving from the
poll. Mr. Sherman stated that he was not sure how much information will be
shared with RTD.
General Manager Genova commented on the relationship with the Metro Mayors’
Caucus. He expressed the fact that Mr. Sherman and he are working on having a
more pro-active role with the caucus. He also mentioned that they are working
with state leadership from both houses on transportation issues and letting them
know that RTD has the knowledge base on transit and can definitely assist in those
conversations.
General Manager Genova explained that his late notice about presenting at Wheat
Ridge Council was a last minute request by the city; he apologized not getting
information to the Board sooner. He said that they did receive questions about the
G-Line. However, he couldn’t give them too much information because substantial
progress on the A-Line needs to be completed before any further tests can be ran
on the G-Line.

General Manager Genova also informed the Board that John Aguilar, a journalist
from the Denver Post, was also at the Wheat Ridge council meeting and penned an
article regarding RTD. In the meantime, other media outlets have picked up the
story and are requesting information. General Manager Genova stated that since
the G-Line did not open in 2016 and since they have not put out any new
expectations or presented any completion dates. The communications team is
working diligently on working on media requests.
General Manager Genova also reference to some recent information that was
released on Tuesday, January 10, 2017, in reference to the University of Colorado
A-Line.
RTD did an analysis of all the trips from Denver Union Station to Denver
International Airport that have occurred since the opening in April, and the study
showed a 97.7% of all the trips were within 15 minutes of their scheduled time.
Director Folska advised the Board that there would be a welcoming event for all
new and returning legislators on Thursday, January 19, 2017 at the Warwick Hotel
from 4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Director Menten thanked General Manager Genova and Henry Stopplecamp for the
good presentation in Wheat Ridge. She proposed the idea of presenting for other
city entities.
General Manager Genova thanked Director Menten for attending Wheat Ridge’s
Council meeting.
Director Broom asked General Manager Genova, if and when the FRA gives the
green light, what is the time frame for the commencement of the operations of the
G-Line.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD is working through the schedule with
Denver Transit Partners. He advised the Board that RTD has put together an
implementation plan with five major action items and submitted it to the FRA.
They are currently working through those items; however, in doing so they are
coming across other items that need to be done. General Manager Genova stated
that once they have a time frame, the Board will be the first to know.
Director Anderson stated that it is important for everyone to know that the delay in
the G-Line is not costing RTD but is costing Denver Transit Partners. She stated
that her constituents want to know who is paying the flaggers at each of the
crossings.
Director Solano thanked staff for working with Commerce City on Route 62 for

which the constituents in Commerce City are elated. He expressed his sincere
gratitude.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 7, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 8:00 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

