2023-01-10
Special Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Good evening, I will now call to order the Tuesday, January 10 2023 special Board
meeting. We are convened as of 5:52 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you
are recognized to speak. We've had a little difficulty with our obtaining a judge to do the swearing-in. So
even though the meeting has started we're going to wait a few more minutes until we get Judge Grove to
appear to be able to conduct our swearing in ceremony, so everybody just hold tight. Thank you.
I understand Judge Grove is just about entering the Blake Street building so we should be able to get
underway pretty quickly Thanks, everybody for your patience.
I see that Judge Grove is present. General Counsel Snyder, are we ready to move forward?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Chair Buzek, if I may-- oh, I was going to say, we're probably giving him the script.
Gotcha, thanks.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Chair, we'll be ready to go in about 30 seconds.
VINCE BUZEK: Yep. Just give me a heads up, thanks.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, good evening, Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, general counsel. We are ready to
start, and I'm happy to introduce Colorado Court of Appeals Judge, Matthew Grove, who will be doing the
swearing this evening.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, General Counsel, and thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note
that until further notice, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com, and a live
stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Our first order of business is the installation of our recently elected and appointed members. I am pleased
to welcome the Honorable Judge Grove who will officiate for us and will administer the oath of office for
the incoming directors. Many of you may recall Judge Grove was kind enough to do the swearing in
ceremony for Chief Joel Fitzgerald. At this time, I would ask the recently elected Directors to unmute your
microphones and turn on your webcams if you had not already done so. Judge Grove, I'll now turn the
proceedings over to you. Please proceed when you are ready.
JUDGE GROVE: Hi, everyone. Hopefully, you can hear me. So we'll do everybody at once, and that will
mean that there will be sort of a cacophony of names and addresses and things like that, but we'll just
trust that you're doing it right. So if you could raise your right hand and repeat after me, I-- state your
name-[INTERPOSING VOICES]

ERIK DAVIDSON: I, Erik Davidson-JUDGE GROVE: --do solemnly swear or affirm-BOARD MEMBERS: --do solemnly swear or affirm-ERIK DAVIDSON: --do solemnly swear or affirm-JUDGE GROVE: --that I am an elector-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOARD MEMBERS: --that I an elector-ERIK DAVIDSON: --that I am an elector-JUDGE GROVE: --who resides at, and state your address.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDGE GROVE: --which is within the Regional Transportation District-BOARD MEMBERS: --which is within the Regional Transportation District
ERIK DAVIDSON: --which is within the Regional Transportation District-JUDGE GROVE: --and within Director District
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ERIK DAVIDSON: --and the Director District I-JUDGE GROVE: --and state the counties that is in-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: Adams and Jefferson counties-ERIK DAVIDSON: Adams, Boulder, and Weld counties-- and the City and County of Broomfield-JUDGE GROVE: --from which I was elected-BOARD MEMBERS: --from which I was elected-ERIK DAVIDSON: --from which I was elected-JUDGE GROVE: --that I will support the Constitution of the United States-BOARD MEMBERS: --that I will support the Constitution of the United States-JUDGE GROVE: --and of the state of Colorado--

BOARD MEMBERS: --and of state of Colorado-JUDGE GROVE: --and that I will faithfully perform-BOARD MEMBERS: --and that I will faithfully perform-JUDGE GROVE: --the duties of the Office of Director-BOARD MEMBERS: --the duties of the Office of Director
ERIK DAVIDSON: --duties of the Office of Director-JUDGE GROVE: --of the Regional Transportation District-BOARD MEMBERS: --of the Regional Transportation District-JUDGE GROVE: --to which I have been elected.
BOARD MEMBERS: --to which I have been elected.
JUDGE GROVE: Thank you, and congratulations.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, your honor.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, with that, I will now call the roll. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present. Director Buzek? Here.
Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guzman?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Here. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale? Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams? With 13 present and two absent we have a quorum, and once again, I
think the judge may have signed off, but thanks so much. That was a great pinch hitter there. It's perfect.
OK, public-- next is our public comment period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the
Boar If you wish to speak, and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle
your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and they will have up to 3 minutes to provide their comments. TaiShrae, has anybody raised their hand,
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: We have one speaker, Richard Bamber.
VINCE BUZEK: Ah, very good. Mr. Bamber, you've got 3 minutes. Please state your name and begin with
your comments.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi, there. It was said, but my name's Richard Bamber I think I'm familiar with
everybody here. We managed to engage with all the new Directors, so I just want to let my
congratulations. It's good to have you all here. We look forward to spending the year making a better
RTD. Thanks very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, sir. Thanks for being here. Anybody else, Tai-Shrae?

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I see no other hands, and there were no emails received either. Great, with no
other participants in the queue, and with no email comments we will close the public participation period
at this time. Next is the election of the 2023 Board officers. As stated in the Board bylaws in the first
official meeting of the year, the Board will elect the officers of Chair, First Vice Chair, Second Vice Chair,
Secretary, and Treasurer.
We are also going to need two election monitors to help us out in this process. Are there any Directors
who do not intend to run for a position on the Executive Committee that would be willing to volunteer to be
an election monitor? Please raise your hand if you are. Director Bouquet, would you be an election
monitor?
JULIEN BOUQUET: More than happy to.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. We need one more. Director Harwick, are you willing to be an election
monitor?
IAN HARWICK: I am.
Great, so Tai-Shrae will email you a link for the two of you to use to go back and tally the votes as they
come through. Tai-Shrae, is that correct?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, Chair. That's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, you have all received a copy of the RTD Board officer election procedures, rules of
engagement for the nomination and election of officers in accordance with the Board's bylaws and with
Robert's Rules of Order, the Board's designated parliamentary authority.
We will begin the position of Chair, and we'll work our way through this process for all of the Executive
Committee offices. Those Board members who nominate candidates, those seconding nominations if
any, and any other speakers will have up to 3 minutes to speak regarding the candidates for each
position. For each office, I will ask for nominations.
When there are no additional nominations, the nomination phase will close, and a call will be made for a
vote utilizing the electronic voting process. That process is that Tai-Shrae will email us the slate of
candidates for that position we will go into the election buddies email and cast our votes. So the Board
Office will insert their names into the electronic ballot.
General Counsel Melanie Snyder, in coordination with our two election monitor Directors, will serve in that
capacity, and will then be asked to tally the votes and provide the final count, either to me or to the
presiding officer as appropriate for announcement. If no candidate for a given office receives at least eight
votes, we will repeat the voting process. If we proceed into additional rounds of voting,
Board members who wish to speak further on behalf of the candidate by providing new or additional
information may do so at that time. This will be done in round-robin fashion. Again, each speaker will be
limited to 3 minutes. If only one Director is nominated for a given office, the Board may proceed to
approve the nominee by acclimation rather than using the electronic voting system.
Are there any objections or questions regarding the process? Seeing none, we'll move forward with the
process as we've just defined it, and at this time, we will proceed to nominations for Chair of the Board,
and I will get the ball rolling in that regard.

Director Guissinger, we all know is a business owner and attorney with broad experience in management,
financial analysis, and has been passionate about transit for decades. Director Guissinger business
catalyst communications has partnered with city transportation departments around the country to market
and promote their transit and other mobility options.
When Guissinger graduated from CU Law School, practiced law for a number of years. She clerked on
the US Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, and after practicing law at Holland and Hart, Director
Guissinger taught land-use planning and local government at the CU law school.
Her civic and community activities are numerous, and she has served on several boards and chairing
several of those boards. For me, most importantly here, Lynne has been involved in a number of things.
She's been on the Executive Committee currently in this current year as First Vice Chair. She's been Vice
Chair of the Zero Emission Vehicle Ad Hoc Committee.
She's been on the Finance and Planning Committee and the Performance Committee. She was the Vice
Chair of the hiring committee for our GM and CEO and Chair of the Government Relations Committee,
and her work here really helped RTD weather some difficult storms, including her help with a successful
outcome to the Accountability Committee work and recommendations.
During my tenure as Chair in 2022, Lynne was a valuable resource, committed to ensuring that RTD
moves forward in a manner that helped not only the agency but the communities it serves. Lynne is
passionate about ensuring RTD's success and the success of all Directors. She is willing to consider all
points of view and will work with each of us individually to ensure that our goals are met. With that, I am
honored to nominate Director Lynne Guissinger for the position of Board Chair. Is Director Whitmore-you're on mute, Troy.
TROY WHITMORE: Is it appropriate now to second the nomination?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please. That would be great. Is there a second?
TROY WHITMORE: There is a second. I will do so and just add that I have served four years with Lynn,
and we have traveled many of the same circles in governmental relations and accountability together. I
know of no one with more passion for this agency, and I think it's a fitting time for her to become our
Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that. Are there any further nominations for the position of Chair? Seeing
none, I move that we accept the nomination of Lynn Guissinger for Chair by acclamation. Do I have a
second?
BOB BROOM: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Bob Broom. Are there any no votes to the motion by acclamation? Seeing none,
Lynn Guissinger will be the Chair of the RTD for the year 2023. We are now going to move on to the-- I'm
sorry, Lynn Guissinger, congratulations. We'll give you time at the end when we're done with this just say
a couple of words. Save your comments for later, OK?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, we're going to move on to the nominations for First Vice Chair are there any
nominations for the position of first Vice Chair? Director Sloan, you have the floor.

MARJORIE SLOAN: As soon as I get admitted, yes. It is my honor to nominate district and Director
Peggy Catlin for First Vice Chair of the RTD Board. When Director Catlin first came to the Board she
brought with her extraordinary qualifications as a respected Colorado Transportation resource. Notably
and briefly, because if I gave all of Director Caitlin's qualifications, I'd go over my 3 minutes, but notably
she's a licensed professional engineer and she was Deputy Director of the Colorado Department of
Transportation for over a decade.
And while on the Board, Director Catlin quickly became respected for her knowledgeable approach to RT
issues, and her hard work on resolving these issues. Just two examples of her efforts led to her-- led to a
great resolution for RTD with her leadership in the Search Committee that ultimately singled out our rock
stars GM CEO, Debra Johnson, and most recently her persistent and successful efforts to improve the
internal audit function.
The electorate directorate agrees that Director Catlin has done a terrific job for RTD. When unavoidable
circumstances led to her becoming a write-in candidate for re-election, she set records in the number of
votes she received as a write-in candidate. So for all these reasons and so many more, I nominate
Director Catlin for First Vice Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that nomination. Is there a second? Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, Mr. Chair. I will offer an enthusiastic second for Director Catlin for First Vice
Chair. Chair, you are on mute.
VINCE BUZEK: Yep, Gotcha. Are there any other nominations for First Vice Chair? Seeing none, I move
that we accept the nomination of Director Catlin for the position of First Vice Chair by acclamation. Do I
have a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.

VINCE BUZEK: Second, Director Whitmore. Are there any no votes on this motion by acclamation?
Seeing none, Director Catlin, congratulations on being elected to First Vice Chair of the RTD. At this time,
we're going to proceed with the nominations for Second Vice Chair. Are there any nominations? Director
Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to nominate Director Bobby Dishell for the position
of Second Vice Chair. Bobby has done a lot of great work for this Board, most recently in this past year. I
think as many are aware, he served on the Finance and Planning Committee, which gave a great place
for me to get to know Director Dishell a little bit better.
He also served as the Chair of our Zero Emission Vehicle Ad Hoc Committee, the Vice Chair of our
Performance Committee, and particularly I did want to note that I had the special opportunity to work very
closely with Director Dishell on our Ad Hoc Audit Committee. There was a lot of work to dig into we had a
really substantial and wonderful team effort that involved our General Manager, our CFO, our Legal
Counsel, many team members, our now outside firm and internal audit, and of course, Directors Catlin,
Dishell, and myself.
There was a lot to divide up. There was a lot to research. There was a lot to understand, and I was
extremely impressed with Director Dishell Shell's collaborative spirit, the speed at which he grasped

topics, his creativity when coming up and defining policy issues, and for those reasons, I think Director
Dishell would be a wonderful addition to our Executive Committee as we strive to define policies for this
Board in the new world that we're entering in post-COVID or whatever we want to call this phase that
we're now going into. So thank you, Mr. Chair. Those conclude my remarks.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Thank you, Director Davidson. Director Dishell. I see your hand is up. Did you have
another nomination or a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: I don't think I could second myself, but I will explain my nomination when I do my-VINCE BUZEK: OK, great.
BOBBY DISHELL: --I accept the nomination and will also explain why I've nominated someone else.
VINCE BUZEK: Gotcha, so is there a second for Director Dishell? Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have a second
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Thank you so much. Director Dishell, I'm going to have you
go now.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. It's my honor to nominate Director Eric Davidson for the role of Second
Vice Chair, and I know that many of you may be thinking way we each nominated for the same role. First
of all, to address that question directly, very frankly, Director Davidson and I each believe the other would
make a great member of the Executive, and so to sort of explain that, it's after Chair and First Vice Chair,
the balance of the roles are relatively equivalent, and so it's a increasing your surface area of
[INAUDIBLE] each.
Choosing to go forward, I think we also both share a dislike for politics and want to put people over
politics and emphasize that. But more importantly, I had the pleasure of getting to know Erik-- Chair
David-- excuse me, not Chair or Erik-- Director Davidson over the past couple of years.
He came to our Board from his community base. I think that's really important to acknowledge, which is
that it was placed onto our Board by jurisdiction, who held the seat since the seat was open back in 2020
and was successfully just re-elected. Director Davidson's approach to problem-solving, community
involvement is unique. Director Davidson, brings a different perspective to the Board, more of an
engineering mathematical background than any of the rest of us have.
His systematic thinking and attacking problems at the systems level, working to collaborate and validate,
dealings and positions, while still being able to take a step back and direct what is best for an agency for
a company is truly impressive. Outside of his work in RTD, Director Davidson has been responsible for
leading numerous companies, including portfolio companies. holdings companies, which requires an
incredible amount of work and getting to talk with them about the way in which it's a people-first approach.
And I think as we enter into 2023, we need a Director that will hit the ground focusing in the community,
while also being able to take that 30,000 foot view. Where are we going? How do we prioritize what to
do? How do we make a rational decision around this?
I'm always impressed by Director Davidson's ability to remain very even-keeled, very objective, and to
really work to deliver the best results for the agency as a whole versus maybe prioritizing one district or

one priority over another, even if it's more important to them. He has the best interests of the district in
mind I think that's something that's admirable, not always easiest. And so with that I'll nominate Director
Davidson.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thank you for that. Do we have a second for Director Davidson?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll second that. Director Guissinger, thank you very much. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. This is probably unprecedented, but Director Tisdale has had massive oral
surgery today and has been unable to communicate. He did, however, send me a text, and asked that I
consider submitting his name for nomination as Second Vice Chair, and I don't see that he has logged on,
so I'm not sure what we have is precedent for that.
But I did agree that given his many years of service to this organization as well as his service on the
APTA Committee, that he could be a very valuable asset to the Executive Committee, and on his behalf,
I'm submitting his name for nomination as Second Vice Chair. Thank you, Mr.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, so we've got a nomination of Director Tisdale for Second Vice Chair. Is there
a second? Director Sloan is that what you're raising your hand for?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, would second it, and I would say it's also unprecedented that we're having a
meeting when Director Tisdale is unable to communicate, which is his strong point.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. Today we've got a nomination of second. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I will note for the record, I do see a Doug Tisdale square on my screen, so I believe he
is listening.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, great, great. Are there any further nominations for the position of Second Vice
Chair? With three candidates having been nominated for the Office of Second Vice Chair, I would ask the
Board Office to please insert the names of the candidates, and those are Dishell, Davidson, and Tisdale,
into the electronic voting system and finalize and submit the electronic ballots to the Directors.
Directors you're going to have to go to your emails, and open that up and cast your votes that way.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: OK, Chair, give me one moment, and I will send it out.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: And then, here. I'm going to leave this meeting, and invite Directors Bouquet and
Harwick to join the other meeting invite so that they can review the election results.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: And Chair, the ballots have been submitted.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. So I have not received my ballot. Has anybody to receive theirs?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: I have not received mine either.
VINCE BUZEK: Tai-Shrae, it appears that nobody has received their ballots yet.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: OK, let me just double-check the system. One moment.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Now I got it.
VINCE BUZEK: Looks like those are coming through, so everybody get into your email and cast your
vote. And don't forget to hit the Submit button on the second screen. Did anybody not receive their ballot?
General Counsel, do we have a result?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. So after conferring with the election monitors, Directors
Bouquet and Harwick, I can confirm that Director Davidson has received at least eight votes and has
been elected to the position of Second Vice Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Congratulations, Erik, on that, and thank you all for participating. Next, we're
going to move on to the position of Secretary and do we have any nominations for the position of
Secretary? Second Vice Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, still Mr. Chair. I just would like to, again actually, nominate Director Bobby
Dishell. I could echo my comments from before, but as Director Dishell alluded to given that the Executive
Committee really works as a whole on policy issues and given Director Dishell's interest in policy matters,
creativity, and innovation, I think he would be a wonderful add this year in his first time joining on the
Executive Committee, so I would enthusiastically put his name forward once again. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Is there a second on that? Not that we need one, but-JULIEN BOUQUET: Happy to second. Director Bouquet, thank you very much.
Chair Elect Guissinger? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am nominating Director Marjorie Sloan Director Sloan
was elected was is the Director from District 10, which is Golden Lakeside, a lot of Jefferson County in
that area, and she brings-- when she first came on the Board and still, she brings a wealth of experience
and relationships in the RTD district.
She's been Mayor of Golden. She was a city councilperson and a planning commissioner before that, and
she spent many, many months and years working on and resolving transportation issues in that Golden
area and throughout the Metro area. She served as Chair of the Metro Mayors Caucus, and she was a
steering committee member of the National mayor's innovation project with our own Transportation
Secretary Pete Buttigieg
By profession, she's a lawyer she served as the law clerk for the Chief Justice of the Colorado Supreme
Court. She practiced law privately and worked as a staff attorney for the United States Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit, and she's brought a lot of experience in policy to this Board as serving as Secretary,
serving on the Performance Committee, the Redistricting Ad Hoc Committee, Vice Chair, and a
representative to Metro Mayors and other things.

Marjorie really is a quiet voice that keeps reminding us of our role in sustainability and in climate action
and working with the region in those things, and I think she's very effective in policy, planning, and
thinking, and it's my honor to nominate her.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that nomination. Do we have a second for that nomination? I will gladly
second that nomination for Director Sloan echoing the comments by Chair Guissinger, so we've got two
nominees. Are there any further nominations for the position of Secretary?
Seeing now with two candidates, Directors Dishell and Sloan, having been nominated for the Office of
Secretary, I would ask the Board Office to please insert the names of the candidates into the electronic
voting system and finalize and submit the electronic ballots to the Directors, and Directors, once again,
we'll check our emails and cast their ballots. Thanks so much.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Chair, the ballots have been sent.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, Chair just FYI, Director Broom was having some technology issues. So we're
trying to work through those with him, and we should be a few minutes. Very good, thanks.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Mr. Chair, is it possible that Mr. Broom could just give his vote orally to the judges
and Madam General Counsel? We'll see about that
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, Chair just a quick update I believe Director Broom has lost his internet, and the
way that the ballot was set up was that it was anonymous until all votes were received, so I will push out a
new Secretary first ballot vote here in a moment. So everyone-VINCE BUZEK: Just for him or for or-- for him or for all of us?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: For everyone, yes.
VINCE BUZEK: I see.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Because that first one is locked until he votes, and then we can definitely have him
talk to Melanie to give his vote verbally.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so it sounds like we're getting another ballot for the position of Secretary.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, you will see a duplicate ballot come through in a few moments.
VINCE BUZEK: So you really do get to vote twice in an election, not just in Chicago.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I don't have the ballot yet.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I'm almost done setting it up. Just 1 minute.
VINCE BUZEK: Remember the days of the little red metal box that John McKay would walk around, the
paper copy?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: OK, I'm sorry for the delay. The ballots should be out now.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Does everyone else have a ballot?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, did you not get one?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I haven't seen it. Let me look again.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes?
MELANIE SNYDER: For the results, without further ado, after conferring with our election monitors, I can
confirm that Director Sloan has received at least eight votes and has been elected to the position of
Secretary. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much, and congratulations Secretary Sloan on your election. At this time
we are going to proceed to nominations for the position of Treasurer, and once again, I'll start. So many of
that Troy Whitmore served on the Thornton City Council as an elected official there, and to this day
remains very active in the community.
He's the past Chair of the Board of Directors at the Metro North Chamber of Commerce, past Chair and
board member of the Brighton Economic Development Corporation, past President and Board member of
Almost Home Incorporated, and serves as a board member for Smart Commute also chairs School
District 27 J's Bond Advisory Committee and as Vice Chair of the Board of Energy Outreach Colorado,
which is Colorado's premier energy assistance foundation.
The Metro North Chamber of Commerce named Troy Businessperson of the Year in 2011 and
recognized him with the Chairman's Award in 2016. Here, at RTD, Troy has been an invaluable addition,
not only to the Board but to the Executive Committee. He serves currently as the Treasurer. He's been on
the Finance and Planning Committee, Performance Committee and heavily involved in the Government
Relations Committee as well.
In fact, in his real job, he is a government relations professional and his relationships with people at the
Capitol have proven invaluable and helpful to the agency. You know he's been an important member of
our Executive Committee. His experience and his sober analytic abilities have helped this agency in many
important aspects. So it's with great pleasure that I nominate Director Troy Whitmore for the position of
Treasurer. And Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I second that nomination. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Are there any other nominations for the position of Treasurer? Director
Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, I will nominate Director Bobby Dishell, once again, and put
his name forward for consideration by the Board for his inclusion on the Executive Committee to work on
policy issues together in the year ahead. Thank you very much, appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Is there a second for Director Dishell?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I will second.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, are there any other nominations for the position of Treasurer? So with two
candidates having been nominated for the Office of Treasurer, I would ask the Board Office to please
insert the names of the candidates, Directors Whitmore and Dishell, into the electronic voting system, and
finalize and submit the electronic ballots to the Directors. Thank you very much. Tai-Shrae?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hey, if you can just give me a few minutes, I will have that out. One second.
OK, Ballots have been submitted.
VINCE BUZEK: Did anyone not get a ballot? Good. Mr. Chair, I don't have my ballot yet. Who was that?
That was me, Director Ruscha. Director Ruscha Tai-Shrae, Director Ruscha has not received a ballot yet
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: OK, let me double-check. It should show up and a second, but let me just doublecheck the voting. One second.

VINCE BUZEK: Director Ruscha, does that mean you've got your ballot and you voted? Excellent.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I thought that was just a continuation of my hazing, Mr. Chair. Yes, it was. It's was all
in good nature though.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Looks like there's a question, Mr. Chair? Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I haven't gotten my ballot either.
VINCE BUZEK: Tai-Shrae?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I know she's working hard. I don't want to put pressure. I just haven't.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I'll get it. One second.
VINCE BUZEK: Did you check your junk or trash or-- I mean, spam or junk mail?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah, of course.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, Mr. Chair, we're ready to go.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: All right, so having conferred with the election monitors, I can confirm that Director
Dishell has received at least eight votes and has been elected to the position of Treasurer.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, congratulations Director Dishell. OK, I would like to be the first to offer my
congratulations to the 2023 Executive Committee. To recap, the 2023 Executive Committee will be
comprised of the following Directors, Chair Lynn Guissinger, First Vice Chair Peggy Catlin, Second Vice
Chair Eric Davidson, Secretary Marjorie Sloan, Treasurer Bobby Dishell. Congratulations, everybody.
At this point, I will now turn over the duties and my gavel of Chair to the newly elected Chair Lynne
Guissinger to complete the rest of the meeting. Chair Guissinger, floor is yours.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Should I wait till I get your gavel, Mr. Chair-- Mr. Former Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: It's in the mail. Don't worry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. Thanks so much, everybody. I appreciate the support. I am delighted to
be working with this Board. I think we have a lot of talent. Welcome Joy-Ann, Ian, Michael. I think, after
talking to all of you a fair amount, I'm excited about the relationships and experience that you bring, and I
think you will enjoy and learn a lot from others on this Board.
I'll take just a minute to talk about my vision for what we're doing here, and my vision, I think, is what
everybody else's vision is, which is that RTD moves forward with the funding we need and the service
that we hope to be able to provide. I want to say I think that our CEO, Mrs. Johnson, and her staff have
been making a big difference in the last two years since she's been here and moving towards those
things we've been able to launch our System Optimization Plan and Mobility Plan for the future, the Zero
Fare Initiative, which was a big success.
I believe we've become a leader in TOD, which is an increasingly important piece to the administration
and the legislature and the fair and equity study and so many other operational and community things and
as we move forward with our strategic objectives. I hope, this year, that we can bring the Board together
I've been hearing lots of good ideas, and start taking some more specific steps as a Board toward that
goal of being able to get the funding we need and provide the service we need.
Public transit is-- it's a critical piece of the pie for this region for both our climate goals and our equity
goals and a couple of things I've had in mind I've talked to some of you about, and I talked with Ms.
Johnson yesterday briefly, and one of them she was already planning before I requested it, which was a
real update on our workforce, how we're doing. We are definitely starting to make that turn, and also on
who we're partnering with
I've also already heard from I think from JoyAnn on some places that we may or may not be partnering.
We're working with all the workforce programs in the district and the community colleges and tech schools
and the prison and jail re-entry programs all of those things. So I'm excited to hear what we're doing and
see if we have some new ideas.
The other initiative that I have in mind is to bring our lobbyists and staff and Board together to really talk
about how we all can help move forward our strategic initiatives, and get those out to the community. So
those are my thoughts. We'll all be talking more. You'll be hearing more from me.
I have some proclamations to read and-- let's see. I will find my place here. The approval of
proclamations is for the Board of Directors to approve proclamations for outgoing Directors Shelley Cook,
Shontel Lewis, and Angie Rivera.
We've come to a kind of a bittersweet portion of tonight's meeting. We have three really I think excellent
Board members who have really contributed to RTD, who are moving on, and it's an opportunity to share
our collective appreciation. So I'll read the proclamations [INAUDIBLE]. I have a little bit to say about each
of them, and then if you want to say something about these Directors, you can. I'm sorry that Director
Cook is unable to join us tonight, but hopefully, she can hear it later.
So Director Shelley Cook, whereas the constituents of District L elected Director Shelley Cook represent
them on the RTD Board of Directors, and whereas she has served faithfully and dutifully on the Board for
four years as an advocate to be the trusted leader in mobility delivering value to RTD's customers and

communities. Whereas Director Cook has served with distinction on a number of committees during her
tenure.
She was First Vice Chair, Second Vice Chair, Vice Chair of the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee, Chair of the Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTracks Committee, Cochair of the Tabor Ad
Hoc Committee, and in numerous other positions in the community.
She served on the Board during a time of tremendous progress and helped guide us to ensure long term
financial viability and sustainability. Therefore, be it resolved by the Board of Directors that we, the Board
of Directors, hereby extend our heartfelt felt communication to Director Shelley Cook for her many
contributions to this Board over her four years and recognize her steadfast dedication to RTD and its
customers.
I am, again, going to read the proclamations briefly, and then speak in all of these. I am happy to see
Director Lewis has joined us. The proclamation in recognition of the contributions made to the RTD
district by Director Shontel Lewis, whereas the constituents of District B elected Shontel-- Director Lewis
to represent them, and whereas Director Lewis served faithfully and dutifully on the Board for four years,
delivering excellence and value to RTD's customers and community while making lives better through
connections.
Whereas Director Lewis served with distinction on many committees during her tenure, including terms as
Chair of the Civil Rights Committee, Chair of the Performance Committee, Chair of the Ad Hoc Committee
for Safety and Security, Vice Chair of Operations and Customer Service, as well as the GM Oversight and
Performance Committee, and the Executive Search Committee.
She has served during a time of tremendous progress for RTD and helped guide the sport along the way.
Now, therefore, be it resolved that the RTD Board-- by the RTD Board of Directors, that we, the Board of
Directors, hereby extend our heartfelt commendations to Director Shontel Lewis for her many
contributions to this Board over her four years and recognize her steadfast dedication to RTD and its
customers.
Finally, Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede. Proclamation in recognition of the contributions made to the RTD
by Director Angie Rivera whereas the constituents of District C elected Director Malpiede to represent
them on the RTD Board of Directors, and whereas Director Rivera Malpiede serve faithfully and dutifully
on the Board for four years, delivering excellence and value to our customers and community while
making lives better through connections.
And whereas Director Rivera-Malpiede served with distinction during her tenure, including terms as Chair
of the Board, Second Vice Chair, serving on the GM Oversight and Performance Committee, the
Executive Search Committee, DRCOG, the Metro Mayors, the APTA Board, and other committees.
Whereas Director Rivera Malpiede served on the Board during a time of tremendous progress for RTD
during which she helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term viability and sustainability. Now,
therefore, be it resolved that the RTD Board of Directors, that we, the Board of Directors, hereby extend
our heartiest commendations to Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede for her many contributions to this Board
over her four years and recognize her steadfast dedication to RTD and its customers. Dated this 10th day
of January 23.

Now, I would like to say just a little about each of these Directors, starting with Director Cook. You know
she brought substantial experience having run a small transit agency she actually ran the original A Line.
It's this micro transit bus going out to the airport, and she brought that experience to the Board.
She served on City Council in Arvada for 12 years, and when I think of Shelley, I think of intellect and
integrity. Nothing got by Shelley you know, she really-- she could research. She could parse things. She
could really help all of us, I think, be better members as we looked through things, and her dedication to
her district in Arvada and to the district as a whole was unquestioned.
With respect to Director Lewis, she served in a number of capacities on the Board, and she was a
consistent champion of justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion, both on this Board and in her role for the
Colorado Coalition for the Homeless. I think Shontel has been a consistent and creative reminder during
the pandemic of the steps we needed to take to protect our employees and protect our customers and of
the importance of our task of providing transportation for those people who need it most. Again, all three
of these, I think, helped make us all better Board members.
Finally, former Chair Rivera-Malpiede PD served this Board for two years as Chair, and they were tough
years. She went in as Chair in 2020 as we were bringing in a new CEO, and then later hired Ms. Johnson
as GM CEO. Within the first few weeks, the world changed when we lost 70% of our ridership due to the
pandemic, and Angie was a steady and creative and smart leader through all of that, and I think we all
owe her a huge debt too.
I find all of these people, as I said, I think, made the rest of us better Board Directors by their commitment
and willingness to serve, and I invite you, if you have some comments to make at this point about those
Directors, to please join. I see Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity. I won't take long. I just did want
to acknowledge the three fantastic Board members that we're saying goodbye to. It's a hard time to say
goodbye as we're starting to look at getting out of having to do everything virtually and getting to be
together more. I really enjoyed the last two years of serving with all three.
And I'm going to use names since we're outgoing here and be less formal. So Angie, I really just-- oh, I
got a little bit of echo there. Angie, I just I truly respect the unyielding dedication that you had for
advocating for marginalized communities and for leading us through the pandemic as our Chair. It was a
heck of a time to step up and serve and stay in that seat, and really, we're all indebted to you for that.
Shontel, we are indebted to you as well. You've worked fearlessly, I think I can say, to elevate the voices
of those who have not been heard as often no matter what it took to do so and to elevate those voices,
and for that, we're indebted to you and I would also say that we are indebted to Shelley Cook as well. I'm
probably echoing some of what Chair Guissinger had to say.
Shelley has an absolute knack for digging into every detail and asking hard questions, whatever question,
but all to ensure the agency's success, and she does so without concern of judgment or popularity, and
for that, we are indebted to Shelley. So I thank the three of you. I will genuinely miss working with all three
of you. Thank you, truly, for your service, and thank you, Madam Chair for the opportunity to speak.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Davidson. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Really, what you articulated, as well as Director Davidson, I completely agree with.
When I got on the Board almost five years ago, I had known Director Cook since 1989. We've worked on

transportation issues together for that long and we were mutually supportive of each other in our run for
election in 2018, but words cannot express how much I admire and appreciate Shelly's earnestness, and
her willingness to really dig into the details. She will be sorely missed.
She was a longtime friend, but when I got on the Board, I had no idea that I would also gain the friendship
of two other wonderful women. And I just really appreciate both Angie Rivera-Malpiede and Shontel Lewis
for their representation of their communities and their passion for providing service to the underserved,
and I truly enjoyed developing a friendship that I hope will be lifelong after these four years of serving
together. So thank you all very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair, and congrats to all of the new officers. Here's to the class
of '18 we're going to miss you three in a big way, but I'm very encouraged with our three new Directors as
well. But I have to say I knew Shelley back when we were council members.
We had, I think, a year of an overlap when she was on council in Arvada, and I was in Thornton. And that
was a long time ago folks. No gray hair on my head back then But she was an impressive council
member and even more impressive as an RTD Board member. So thorough, so knowledgeable, so
dedicated, I learned a lot from her and she was, at times, a tutor, and those kinds of skills are really
important as a new Board member, so we will Ms that from Shelley, and I just appreciate her passion for
transportation.
And then there Shontel, and oh what a time we had, Shontell. We got to know each other first on the
campaign trail, and back when we could campaign, and had a lot of joint ventures and then APTA event
in New York. And Shontel has opened my eyes to a lot of things that I was either unaware of or needed to
be reminded of on a regular basis.
And I just appreciate your passion as well and your work with JEDI and moving our organization in a
more thorough manner and more thoughtful manner in that direction, and I will just miss a lot of our
laughs and those hugs. So next time I see you, and I don't know where it'll be, they'll definitely be a hug
involved. So thank you, Shontel, and good luck to you in your future endeavors.
And then, there's Angie. Oh my, what a person of character and strength. Those two years were difficult
for Angie and I learn so much about service and gleaned knowledge of her heritage that she shared with
us at numerous times. That is so important to this organization and to the RTD region.
Angie challenged me, and not in a negative way, to fulfill roles that I wasn't sure that I was ready for and
really helped me to become more relevant as a Board member and to find my niche talents in
governmental affairs and other areas, and she made those opportunities happen for me, and I'm forever
indebted.
As a relatively old guy, I've grown a lot in the two years under your leadership, Angie, and I adore the
passion that both you and Shontel have exhibited over and over again for your constituents, for us as
fellow Board members, and for RTD in general. So thank you so much, all three of you. We will miss you,
but we know we can call on you at any given time because you're not checking out. You're just moving to
a little bit of a different role, so thank you so much. Muchas gracias.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. That was beautiful and echo all the sentiments that was
shared. For Shelley Cook she's not here-- she really modeled what it meant in order to work with and
partner with I think, getting RTD and other large institutions to do so.
I had a chance to walk through downtown Arvada with Shelly. She pointed out all the different items she
worked on that were local partnerships. She found money. She found the people. She found a way to get
any and every infrastructure improvement. Oh, that looks really nice. Turns out Shelly had a hand in it,
and it was really amazing a chance to go walk through downtown Arvada better with her.
Just amazing to see the ways in which she was able to do that and truly never [INAUDIBLE]-- --as an
item, and putting that out there, but fast, [INAUDIBLE] concern. You have fine attention to detail. Director
Lewis and I-- when I first got on the Board, I ran with Director Bouquet justice inclusion policy, and we
learned a lot through that process, and that sort of cemented our foundation.
But then Shontel shows up and laid the groundwork and models [INAUDIBLE] whether that is continuous,
I don't know it, but RTD may not be [INAUDIBLE] institution, but Shontel was always there to remind us
that might not be what's best for them and the actions that those people take. Their values [INAUDIBLE]
may not be ours.
She laid the groundwork for all of Free Fares on Election day. That Director Bouquet helped build I think
as I continue to support black womerns contributions to society.
Last but not least, Director Rivera Malpiede and I had a chance to work together on the landing
[INAUDIBLE], and on so much of their work that was so deeply important to her and continued to model
what it meant and would share her culture and the injustices that were perpetuated against her family by
the institutions and government.
To have her show up every single day, with her full heart, continue to improve the situations that caused
her family harm is amazing. It's admirable. And she teaches in such an incredible way and is able to bring
together 14 other really amazing voices to create a cohesive [INAUDIBLE]
So there's so much more to say about all of these incredible women. I've truly really learned so much. So
thank you for your service. And I know So that's my call. Go for it. Thank you all for your service.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Chair. You did an excellent job as a spokesperson for the Board when
you explained about how each of these retiring Directors have made a great contribution to the RTD
district, and I too am grateful for their years of dedicated service.
But I would also like to note they are not disappearing, and they will all continue to contribute to our
community. And I look forward to hearing their future contributions to the Denver Metro area and the RTD
district.
Also, you're not disappearing, and this is especially for Director Lewis, we do have public comment at all
our Board and committee meetings, and we expect to hear from you, and it was Director Lewis who was
so focused on getting that. I hope she makes use of it as well as Director Rivera-Malpiede and Director
Cook, so thanks to all three of you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll be quick and brief. Some of us newbies wouldn't be here without the people who
we follow into these positions, so thank you for the opportunity. Thank you for the welcome and the
invitation to run. [SPEAKING SPANISH] and [SPEAKING SPANISH] Right?
This is a Board that represents a large constituency of people of all different races, backgrounds,
religions, ideologies, sexualities, genders, and it's really important to follow strong leadership. So as we're
taught in the Hispanic and Chicano and Latino community, each one teach one, and you bring one up
behind you when you leave. So Angie, thank you for that leadership. It is really appreciated, and I will
serve your community well after you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I won't I'll be brief as well. I feel the same way that everybody's
expressed. Director Cook, you could ask her anything about anything, and she would tell you exactly. She
used to listen to Public Utility commission proceedings. Who does that? Anyway, she was great.
Director Lewis, you made me think, and you made me think in different ways, and I appreciate you for
that. Thank you so much But most importantly, Director Rivera-Malpiede, thank you for your work and
service. When I became the Chair in 2022, Angie was incredibly helpful to me to help me navigate the
process and the people and all of that and was always available to me to reach out to ask questions and
help me figure things out. So Angie, forever grateful to you for that. Thank all three of you. Tremendous
work, thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you so much. I think you can hear the respect and appreciation and
true friendship that so many of us who have worked with all of you feel. I'd like to take a vote on all of the
proclamations at once. Is there anything-JULIEN BOUQUET: Don't forget about our CEO. Oh, sorry, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Don't forget our CEO.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. Yeah, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair, and good evening to all those that are
assembled, Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. First and foremost, I want to take the
opportunity to congratulate all the new Board members that were installed this evening as well as the
returning Board members and say congratulations to all Board members that are now serving on the
Executive Committee.
With that being said, I wanted to take the opportunity to voice my gratitude and thanks to Directors Cook,
Directors Lewis, and Director Rivera-Malpiede. I have had the pleasure of working with each and every
one of them during the course of the past two-plus years, and I am immensely grateful for their
leadership.
I know I'm speaking on behalf of the leadership team and all members of the RTD as it relates to the
policy guidance and the implementation of a myriad of different projects, and I want to thank each and
every one of you for your commitment to making lives better through connections you have.

Such great responsibility in reference to showcasing and shepherding, transportation policy, and as you
all know, I'm a firm believer in that transportation is the great societal equalizer. Not everybody was born
on equal footing, and leveling the playing field has to be done in order to gain access to opportunity, and
without means of transport, it's hard to take advantage of said opportunities.
So I want to say thank you very much for being the voice of the voiceless, for actually taking ideas from
the bus stop and bringing them into the boardroom, and for that, I want to thank you for your leadership.
And it's not goodbye, it's so long because I know very well that you all will still be committed for the
betterment of transportation in the Metropolitan Denver region, so thank you very kindly for your service.
Thank you, Madam Chair. That concludes my remarks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I know that they have all appreciated working with you so
closely as well. At this time, I'd like to take a vote on all of the proclamations at once. Any objections to
proceeding in that way?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved if it's appropriate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. You saved me. Do we have a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, is there any objection to adopting these proclamations? Great, proclamations
are approved. Hearing none, they are adopted. I would like to note that a flag for each of you has been
flown over the Colorado State capital in honor of your service and will be sent to you by the Board Office.
I personally thank you again for all you have contributed and for your friendship, and I wish you the very
best. I know you all have big projects moving forward, and good luck with all of those. Before I move our
one recommended action, I also want to just say thank you so much to our outgoing Chair, Vince Buzek.
Chair Buzek has worked with Ms. Johnson the staff and the Board on a number of really important issues
this year, and I think he's been a always a steady and eloquent voice of the-- the Board's voice in
communicating with the community, and with his constituents and with all of us.
He appointed two special committees to address two looming issues, the TABOR and Zero Emission
Vehicle Committees, and he's done all of the work for us with a sense of humor that has guided us well.
So I think I speak for all of us in saying thank you Mr. Chair. I see-- yeah. I see Miss Lewis would like to
speak. There you go.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you I just have a few questions. I think it's a really cool thing and I'm just
curious about this flag.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think you're breaking up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, I may have a bad connection. That's fine. Don't worry about it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I'm sorry. Yeah, you're asking about the flag. I don't know, so-- I don't know,
but I think it's a nice tribute, and you should get that soon. OK, we have one recommended action on the
agenda tonight listed as item 7 action A.

That item is a 2023 official meeting notice posting location for the Board of Directors to designate the
Board meeting portal on the RTD public website, http:backslashRTD.IQM2.com, as its official location for
posting of notices of all public meetings in 2023 as required by sections 46-402 2C1 and 3CRS. Do we
have a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard Director Broom as the movement, and I'm not sure who was the second.
Was that you Mr. Bouquet
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I'll second it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, is there any discussion on the motion? I'll call for the vote. Are there any no
votes on this motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: A lot of free discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry? Go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think for anyone who's used or navigated our online system, it's updated for
2022. It's also not really super easy to find as a member of the public, so as we look into the new year, we
welcome anyone joining for looking at how do we update this. How do we make sure that this is actually
accessible to folks because as the post took place, its whole purpose is that you should be able to post it
and then do a survey. Most constituents, most customers, that's not a website that they're familiar with.
But these decisions have got to [INAUDIBLE]. So that was all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. I think it's always worth looking at to make sure we're making things
as accessible as possible, so I appreciate you raising that. Anyone else? OK, are there any no votes? I
believe we have 13 attending now. Director Tisdale did join us, so I believe that's 13 yes votes and no
votes and no abstentions. The motion passes.
Finally, the approval of minutes the final 2022 Board and committee minutes were included in the Board
packet. Are there any corrections from the Directors? Unless there's objection to considering these
minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following
meetings, November 15, 2022, the regular Board meeting, November 16, 2022, Performance Committee,
November 22, 2022 Performance Committee, November 30, 2022 Performance Committee, December 6,
2022 special Board meeting, December 8 2022, Executive Committee, and December 13, 2022, special
Board meeting. Do we have a motion to approve the-PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we had Director Catlin making the motion, and I'm sorry, who made the
second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Dishell.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Dishell second. Already no votes on this action. With 13 yes votes and
0 no votes and 0 abstentions, that motion passes as well. All right, any other matters to come before the
Board tonight? Director Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to address our new members, because as sad
as it is saying goodbye to some of our Directors and colleagues that we've worked with, I'd like to say a
hearty hello to JoyAnn, Michael, and Ian. I am personally so delighted that you have chosen to serve your
neighbors and your community by joining us here on this Board.
It is still a very difficult time for transit so really truly appreciate that each of you are seeking to serve. I've
had the pleasure of speaking with you each and genuinely believe your heart's in the right place of
service, and I thank you for coming on board. We, as a Board, did not-- this group did not build our nearly
2,400 square mile area.
We didn't define its varied land use patterns, we Didn't? Define the funding structure that we have to work
with, and we certainly didn't create a pandemic, but this group here owns every problem this agency has.
It's our responsibility to deliver service to this area in its different land use patterns and within the means
that we have or that we can successfully advocate for. So welcome aboard, and to you and to the rest of
my colleagues,
I'll just remind that we've got our certainly have our work cut out for us, and I'd be remiss if I didn't say just
starting the year, thank you to our General Manager Debra Johnson and the entire RTD team across the
entire organization in every role. Thank you for your dedication and your sacrifices and your hard work.
Once again, this is not an easy time to be in transit. No matter what the role and what the job, I very much
appreciate that you all are the ones that are in the arena, and I just wanted to say to the whole staff and
Board, thank you for entrusting those of us that will be in the Executive Committee, and I ask that all
ideas come forward, that nothing is left unsaid, that we are brutally honest with each other about the
world that we find ourselves in.
I, personally, am very excited that, while COVID is not behind us, we are waking up and realizing a lot of
ways that the world has changed. Like many historic crises, COVID catalyzed a lot of rapid change to the
way we work, to our technology, to the way we interact, but we're all still human. We all still have to get to
and fro. We all still have to make lives better through connections.
So thank you to you all I really look forward to the year ahead, and again, welcome Michael and JoyAnn.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Davidson. Ms. Johnson, did you have something you wanted to add
or should I-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yield the floor to the Board-- to Director Bouquet, and then I can speak thereafter.
OK, Director Bouquet, and we'll get to you, Brandon.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just wanted to say thank you for the outgoing Board members and welcome to our
new Board members. My comment of other matters is kind of reflects upon our new five officers for our
EC. I do want to congratulate you guys on being now part of the EC, and I think I've spoken with several
of you.
Moving forward into 2023, I'm very excited of what policy opportunities we're going to ultimately have, and
I don't think it is the worst idea on the planet for us as a 15 Board to start having the conversation of
potential retreats to start off our year and start thinking about what are our strategic priorities. Well, not
what our strategic priorities are, but what are our policies that match with our strategic priorities going into

the future, especially as, we say, it's a very exciting time in transit and there's a lot of opportunities to the
future.
So that would just be my one recommendation to our five new officers. It's ultimately having some kind of
strategic session, some kind of retreat, and potentially having the conversation of what our policy goals
are going into 2023 that's all I have to add, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I wanted to take this opportunity to introduce
Charlene Polege, who is our Chief People Officer, as this is technically her first Board meeting. So just
wanted to acknowledge her presence, and she's come on camera, so if you can afford her just a couple
of minutes so she can introduce herself, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you very kindly, Madam
Chair. Great, thank you so much, and I'm happy that you pronounced your last name. So Ms. Polege, do
you have a-- introduce yourself, please.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, thank you. It's Polege, and I'll tell you something so you'll remember it.
Don't pull my leggy, vote for Polege. That was my high school present campaign slogan, and it was the
winner. So anyways I just want to say thank you.
I'm really excited to be part of RTD and the mission to move people into-- as CEO Johnson said, level the
field so that we can have that accessibility and equality. So happy to work on behalf of the Board om
service to our communities.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, welcome, and thank you so much. Where have you come from, Ms. Polege?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Well, I'm actually originally from Canada if you might hear a little bit of an accent.
Sometimes people do hear. But I've recently just relocated from Cincinnati, Ohio.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, thank you for joining us. We're looking forward to working with you.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Brandon Figliolino, have I said that correctly?
BRANDON FIGLIOLINO: You have, Madam Chair, thank you. Good evening Chair and members of the
Board. For those of you who do not know me, my name is Brandon Figliolino, and I am the Senior
Specialist of Community Engagement here at RTD. I'm here with you tonight to provide a brief update on
our most recent community event which was our participation in the National Western Stock Show.
Last Thursday, January 5th, over 30 RTD team members joined Directors William, Guzman, and Bouquet
as they rolled down 17th Street in Denver in a horse-drawn wagon. The wagon was branded to resemble
an RTD bus if you can see on my background right there.
And in addition to the wagon, Directors and team members waved signs that promoted the N line and
route 48 as excellent transit options to allow travelers to get to the National Western Center, where a
majority of the stock show events are being held now through January 22.
We were very excited to participate in this long-standing Colorado tradition. The stock show has been
around for over 100 years, and I'm really pleased tonight to share that our entry in the parade won the

National Western's Reserve Champion Award for our creativity and presentation, so that's really exciting
to hear. I want to thank and recognize my teammates and communications, especially in marketing, for all
of their support with executing this parade.
Thousands of spectators saw RTD roll down, and it was really great to participate in this cherished event.
I want to add that they're going to be future parades and festivals that we are planning for the New Year
with the next one being the Martin Luther King Jr. Parade. This parade and march is happening on
Monday, January 16, and I would like to extend an invitation to you all to attend, and I look forward to
working with you all in 2023 as we continue to make lives better through connections. Thanks so much for
the time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Figliolino, and those are great ideas. Thanks for getting us out.
Thanks to the Directors and staff who all participated in the parade last week. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Well, happy New Year, and I look forward to working with everybody.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. Happy New Year to all of you. I hope that, perhaps, I think the goal
is to get our first meeting in our next meeting, January 31, in person, and then I think we need to engage
the conversation of how much in person we want, how much remote, how we plan for that so that,
hopefully, we can spend a little more time together, but still respect people's need for time when they're
working other places and all of those things.
Again, Thanks to our new Board members. I hope also at our next meeting or soon, we have a chance,
and that one will be in person, to really let you introduce yourselves. I feel like I've gotten to know you a
little bit. I know some of your backgrounds, but I think that would be helpful to the rest of the Board.
And thanks, again, to Ms. Johnson and to all of the staff who put in so much effort all the time and are
doing such a good job in moving us forward. I appreciate it. Are there any other matters to come before
the Board? If not, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet. I moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The meeting is adjourned. Thank you all very much.

