2020-07-01
Ad Hoc Conduct Committee
Code of Conduct
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would like to call the Ad Hoc Committee of the Code of Conduct
to order. It is 8:02 AM Mountain Standard Time July 1, Wednesday, July 1. And if we can just do
a roll call, that would be great. Miss McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. So we'll start with Evan Dreyer. Paul Pazen. Britta Fisher. Was
that-- I didn't hear that. Gary Bryskiewicz.
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Good morning, everyone.
SPEAKER 1: Morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Morning.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Aubrey Hasvold.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Morning.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Denise Maes. Carly Sailon. Bob Dorshimer. Kate Barton.
KATE BARTON: Good morning.
SPEAKER 2: Morning, Kate.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I know that Chair Rivera-Malpiede is on. Director Lewis. Director
Mihalik. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Michael Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Michael Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: I'm here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Marisela Sandoval.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I'm here. Good morning.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Paul Ballard, I believe, is out this week. And John McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: I am here. Good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning, everybody. Thank you for being here on this
beautiful Wednesday morning, July 1. I cannot believe we're halfway through the year. So what
I'd like to do is really turn this over right now to Mr. Meader on the overview of the revisions. Mr.
Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good morning, everybody. And first let me
start off by just saying thank you very much for your commitment and your participation to this
Ad Hoc Committee. I think there were some fantastic discussions had, great input, and we
incorporated almost all of it word for word in the new Code of Conduct, which we went over in
our last meeting in quite a bit of detail.
The actual Code that you received attached to the agenda today is a clean copy with all of the
changes that we discussed in it. There is one item that we did change after that, but the Code you
have doesn't include that change, and that was on number 37, line item 37, with regards to the
electrical outlets.
And so we changed that language based upon the discussion we had last time for that language to
say, "unplugging a plug that's already being used in an electrical or data outlet in any RTD vehicle
facility to charge a personal device."
So it sends the message that you can use those outlets to charge your personal device just don't
unplug something that's already plugged in. And so that's kind of where we settled on that. And I
think it meets the spirit of the discussions that we had about that particular one.
So I'll start, really open up today just to say are there any other comments that anybody has? I will
make one other comment real quick. There was one typo that was pointed out in the very first
sentence of the Code where we had the word transportation more than one time.
We've changed that, and I believe John McKay has sent out a version that just has that word
removed. So I'll open it back up to anyone, after having had a chance to read through this clean
version of all the changes, if there's any other comments anyone has regarding the code as
presented.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Why don't I go ahead and go down the list. Britta?
BRITTA FISHER: Madam Chair, I just got on. Would you mind starting with some others and
then I'll come back?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely. Thank you. Gary.
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: I have no recommended changes. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Hi. Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the changes on number 37. I
think that that does capture the spirit of our discussion, so thank you very much. The only concern
that I have that's outstanding would be on number 28, lying or sitting on the floor, platform,
stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility.
We had some pretty robust discussion on that at our last meeting, and I think I wasn't alone in my
concerns around the enforcement of this. I think it would be hard to enforce in an equitable and
uniform way and so would still love to see some reworking of this point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader, could I have you respond to that, or do you want to
wait and hear everybody?
MICHAEL MEADER: No, I can respond. That's fine. Yeah, this is one I know we've had a lot of
discussion about and we've looked at this multiple times. It does present a problem for us,
frequently, in terms of the ability to safely move people around and the safety therein.
So after a lot of careful thought, we felt that this particular one did need to remain as is with an
understanding, obviously, if there are some extenuating circumstances that I don't think we can
capture all of those in one line item, there would be considerations to accommodate extenuating
circumstances.
That's the best I can say. I do appreciate your concern and understand it, certainly, but this is one
we felt we had to keep as is to ensure the safety of everyone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thanks. I appreciate that, Mr. Meader. I understand the concerns there. I
think Britta brought up last time that maybe number 34 kind of gets at the core of that, making
sure that people aren't impeding the delivery of services. So with that, I'll close my comments. But
thank you for the discussion on that.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thanks, Aubrey. Let's see, who do I have? Kate. Kate Barton, I'm sorry.
KATE BARTON: Sorry. Trying to get myself off mute. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. And
just wanted to note, I think, that the change based on the conversation on number 37 is accurate
and allows for some clarity around the Code. So appreciate that change. I also just want to note
that the change on number 18, the use of a bullhorn or similar device, I think that adding that
additional language is absolutely the right call. So that is all my comments.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. OK. I'm going to go through this list now. Is
Director Lewis on the line?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm on the line.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do you have any comments, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't. I thought this meeting was canceled. I received a cancellation, and
then I received another invite saying that we were on. So I'm still looking at the changes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'll come back to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Mihalik? OK. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I don't have any further input. Just appreciate the good work on everybody's
account. Every meeting we've made a new and improved version, so thanks for the participation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think this is a lot of good work on a lot of people's part. I appreciate the time
that everybody took to read it, and that Mr. Meader and his group made to try and respond. It's a
difficult thing to try and be effective and be equitable and be reasonable all at the same time. So
I'm very happy with what I see here, particularly in comparison to where we started. So thanks to
everybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Ford, do you have any comments?
MICHAEL FORD: I have no comments at this time. Thank you. OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief?
BOB GRADO: No, I'm good. I appreciate everyone's input. I think we have a much better
document and I feel really good about what we've done here. I appreciate everybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Let's see, who else is on this call? Mr.
Meader, we've been hearing from you, but do you have anything additionally you'd like to share?
MICHAEL MEADER: No, I think, as the Chief said, great job. And I appreciate everyone, really,
their commitment to this. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And Britta.
BRITTA FISHER: Thanks for giving me a moment to get settled. I, too, appreciate many of the
edits for clarity, for simplicity, for being more person-centered. I appreciate all of that. I do
consider 28 to still be a difficult one, and I heard Mr. Meader's reasoning.

I guess I still feel that 16, 34, some of the existing others talk about the intent to obstruct and so
forth versus just the act of sitting somewhere that isn't a seat. And there's many reasons, including
medical, which I understand is covered by ADA, where people need to have a different posture.
And so I still think that one could be problematic. So I will continue to flag that.
But I also do appreciate the change for 37 to allow electrical usage for places that aren't already
utilized by RTD for equipment. I think that will be a real benefit to many. With that, I will conclude
my comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Britta. Can you go back? Was it 38 that you said you
would continue to flag?
BRITTA FISHER: 28.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 28. Let me go back up there.
BRITTA FISHER: It's the lying or sitting on the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground, or
conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility. I still think the intent to impede and allowing people
access gets at that without saying that just the act of sitting somewhere on the floor is a problem,
especially if it's out of the way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Mr. Meader, do you want to just respond to that?
I know that you've talked about that before. But any additional thoughts?
MICHAEL MEADER: And again, I appreciate it and I understand it. I know we combined a couple
of the items, I think. One of the ones that Aubrey mentioned was 34, where we combined some of
those things together in terms of blocking. We just really felt that we needed to point out the lying
and the sitting.
I think that one of the other things we did, hopefully, that will help with the understanding is if we
do see people lying down, typically their eyes closed, those kinds of things, we've really made it
very clear that we would only approach them from a welfare check perspective.
So we're not going to try to disrupt people who are peacefully just trying to wait for their vehicle,
those kinds of things. But we just do feel like we still need to point out the lying and the sitting
piece of it just because of the frequency of that. But thank you very much for the comments. I do
appreciate it. We'll continue to monitor that.
BRITTA FISHER: May I ask a question as to what the impact is of that lying and sitting? I know
you've said it's frequent, but I guess I don't understand the operational impact. Maybe you can help
me understand.
MICHAEL MEADER: Well, obviously, right now we don't have as many people moving around
down there at the moment with the ridership the way it is. But we do oftentimes have quite a few
people packed in. It does create a problem sometimes for people having seats, also, just if we do

have quite a few people that people are lying down on the seats and those kinds of thing. It takes
up seats for others that might want to sit down as well.
In that particular case, we also have people who might spread out, and it does get in the way of the
movement between the seating, between the gates. It happens frequently enough that, again, we
felt we needed to leave that specificity in the Code.
BRITTA FISHER: And you don't think that the other rules about impeding access and not taking
more than one seat or lying on seats, that that doesn't cover those scenarios?
MICHAEL MEADER: No, after a lot of discussion, we didn't feel like it. Some of the impeding
piece tends to-- people think, well, you know, I'm not putting my bags in the way, or I'm not doing
those kinds of things. So we left that in there specifically, too. It's very difficult, as we talked about,
to make a laundry list of things. I think we talked about it in a couple of meetings.
What are the things that we could say are ways that they might impede or do those kinds of
behaviors? And you start to make a list, you inevitably leave something out, and then you're
challenged on it and those kinds of things.
So just in the interest of safety and really trying to keep everyone safe, we felt that we needed to
keep those things clarified, specifically called out in this particular case. As I said, this is a dynamic
document, as we see. We've made quite a few changes. We're going to continue to evaluate things
as we change the way we operate, sometimes, in terms of paid fares zones and those kinds of
things. And if it gives us an allowance to make those changes, we certainly will consider that.
Trust me, I've got that loud and clear. And we're going to keep taking a look at those. OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Britta?
BRITTA FISHER: I will conclude with I still look at the rules as giving still plenty of latitude for
giving any instruction that is about safety and access and impeding. And I continue to not be
offended by the fact that somebody chooses to sit on the floor out of the way versus in the way.
And I feel like the in the way is covered.
So I would just say autonomy and freedom of being able to have some movement about space is
something that benefits, I think, us all as riders. And if we get too prescriptive on some of these
things, I also think that can be difficult for people to feel that they have that freedom and
enjoyment. And so I will leave it at that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Lewis, I'm going to come back to
you now. Do you have any comments or questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think I do have one question. So as I'm looking at this, I actually don't
disagree with what Britta is speaking to. And I wonder, Mr. Meader, if you could give an example
between the difference of 28 and 29, examples of when you've had to enforce these two differently,
because it does, to me, feel like 29 covers the intent of 28, and I may be misinterpreting that.

MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. No, absolutely. Good question. We tried to just specify this because
there's a difference. People will just be lying down, sitting, lying down in those positions, clearly
awake. There isn't any concern for a person's well-being. We have the sleeping piece in there
because we do frequently have people sleep, and we have had several incidents where people
actually appeared to be sleeping, and they had passed away in our facility or on our system.
And so we added this language to state if we see someone sleeping or dozing, we want to make
sure we check and make sure that the person's OK. So the reason we're going to check them is to
make sure they're OK and they haven't passed away or having aren't having any kind of difficulty
from a medical perspective. So it was important that we left that one in there as well from a welfare
check perspective.
So those are the two differences, clearly, people who are just kind of laying down, awake, taking
up the space, those kinds of things, and then those that are sleeping and we're concerned about
their well-being.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that answer your question, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. Sorry. Yes, it does. It does to some degree. I think I may have pointed
out the wrong one. But again, I thought this meeting was canceled, so I wasn't quite prepared for
this discussion. One second here because I do see some repetition here where it says-- let's see. 18,
19. All right, come back to me and I'll find it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'll give you a minute, and I'll come back to you. Mr. Meader,
I'm wondering if somewhere in this Code of Conduct, since we are doing this piece, if we should
be somewhere in here that you must wear a mask on RTD vehicles, since we are asking people to
wear masks, that we actually put it in our Code of Conduct as well just as another placeholder to
make sure that the community knows that we are requiring face masks on all of our vehicles.
MICHAEL MEADER: You know, Chair, that's a great point. I really hadn't thought about that.
And we could certainly clarify that the expectation is when the direction is given during a pandemic
or something like that, we expect masks. I think that's a fantastic idea. Chief, what do you think
about that?
BOB GRADO: Yeah. I think as long as we say during an identified pandemic type thing just so
we have that flexibility. But now, if we put that in the Code of Conduct, right now we're not
enforcing that, obviously. We're asking people to do that. We don't want our operators to be in the
position of enforcement. But I think if we carefully word that, I think it would be a good thing.
MICHAEL FORD: It's Michael. I think we have to be careful, too, because there are folks that
have respiratory issues and all that. And there are ADA issues associated with it as well. So I think
we just need to be careful how it's written.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

MICHAEL MEADER: We'll look at that. We'll look at that, though. I think it's a good suggestion.
We'll look at it and see if we feel like we can include it in the language in such a way that it captures
all of those things, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. No pressure, Director Lewis. Are you
ready?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, good. You are on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm so sorry. OK. I found it. I just got some things mixed up here. And I'm
also looking at it from my phone because my computer's all jacked up. So forgive me this morning.
So it's actually right above it. So Mr. Meader, you mentioned-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What number are you on?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I'm going to tell you. You mentioned 27 and 28, intentionally
occupying more than one seat. And so in response to Britta's question, you mentioned that
sometimes the lying and sitting, that people take up more room and more seats when buses and
things are crowded. And so what I was going to point out is it actually covers that here in 27.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah So in 27 we changed one of the issues that originally said was
occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility. And it was brought up that there could
be a number of ADA issues, or if someone was obese or something like that, we obviously wouldn't
challenge them for doing that. So we added the word intentionally specifically on the seating piece
of it.
In 28 it says lying or sitting on the floor or platform, those kinds of things. So that is specifically
on the floor. When I responded to that, I kind of included the other piece of it. We do capture that
above that. The 28 is specifically on the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance
where it would become a safety issue for movement and those kinds of things that happens quite
frequently. So thank you for pointing that out.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I'm sorry. Go ahead.
BOB GRADO: I'm sorry to interrupt, Director Lewis. This is Bob Grado. We had a lot of
discussion on this, and it's a tough one. The feedback we're getting is please don't. Please don't
take that out of there. Please do not because it's one thing if you have a couple people doing it. But
there's times where we'll have 20, 30 people, and it becomes an obstacle course to walk through.
I'm talking specifically about the inside facility stuff.
And you can't go to the grocery store and lay on the floor. You can't go to any of the city buildings
and lie on the floor. You can't go to King Supers and lay on the floor. The floor is to be walked

on. That's what it's designed for. And there's times we'll have benches empty throughout the facility
and then people lying on the floor. So we would like to ask them to go sit in a seat.
So it's a tough one. I know there's a lot of issues and controversy around this. But this is one of
those ones where we said, please let's leave this in there and call it out specifically because it
becomes such a problem at times.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So it sounds like you might have access to a different audience. I did
send this out as a Director. I know we talked about this, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, that we should
send it out to our constituencies. And I personally, as one Director, didn't receive any feedback
saying please don't take this one out. And so I am curious of that perspective because I do think
that that 16, 34, 4, and the other ones that we pointed out do cover this. And so it feels redundant
to me.
But I'm curious as the audiences that you might have had access to and their specific concerns
about this that weren't being enforced.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, this is Bob Grado again. It was just Mike Meader, Marisela, myself, as Steve
Martingano, or just a couple of the command staff folks that deal with this stuff on a daily basis.
We passed this around a little bit.
MICHAEL MEADER: Right. We do get a fair amount of complaints from our customers. And
that's the piece where we're trying to balance here. So a lot of the people that utilize it will call and
say, hey, I'm trying to walk through to my bus, and there were a lot of people lying on the floor or
creating some kind of impeding of those kinds of things.
So we're balancing a lot of populations here, obviously, the people who are trying to move very
quickly between the vehicles, some people who are waiting and just resting, all of those kinds of
considerations as well. But the feedback was from the people that are enforcing it, our Police
Officers at Work force, our security folks, the command staff, the feeling was this was something
we needed to keep in here. So we're planning to keep this in here to make sure that we cover those
kinds of situations. It really is for safety.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Are there specific areas of concern where this is happening more frequently
in some areas than others?
BOB GRADO: It does happen more in some of the areas. The bus concourse we've seen it. And
one of the other things that I think we haven't talked a whole lot about is on our buses and trains
as well. So when you get people on the buses and trains, you'll frequently see them sit down on
the floor versus standing up holding onto those kinds of things. And that does create safety egress
issues if you have people doing that as well. So it's not exclusive to a facility per se. It's for all
RTD property. We have to account for those kinds of things, too.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. So I think that's one perspective. I think it's from the safety
and security perspective. I would think, as someone who's been on a crowded bus and has had to

sit down, that I've done it for balancing because I feel more stable sitting down than I do standing
up. And so I think that's one perspective, also, as a patron.
And so I don't know. I'm going to push back a bit because I do think it's covered in this. But I also
think that there's a question that we are answering-- that you all, from a safety and security
perspective, you may be answering, that I may not be aware of. And that's why we're having this
discussion and not able to get on the same page.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK. Thank you, yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you asked us to get feedback from our
constituents, and I received two. There was a concern about the two hour rule that folks can only
stay on our properties for two hours. And then the second one was the blow horn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, what was the second one?
SHONTEL LEWIS: The second one was the blow horn. And I can find that rule. Just give me a
few seconds here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. While you're doing that, I'm going to call on Aubrey.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, do it. Thank you.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Madam Chair, I just wanted to jump in because Chief Grado gave some
examples of where sitting and lying down in public spaces is inappropriate, but that brought to
mind the airport. And that's somewhere where I've taken a full nap. I've laid down because I need
to put my body in a different position from sitting all day or walking through that long security
line.
And just an observation is that the main difference between RTD and an airport with regard to
sitting and laying down would be that in the airport, there are fewer, if any, people experiencing
homelessness. So I just wonder if that is really a major factor here in people's complaints because
I don't know if the airport gets complaints about people sitting or laying down.
But I think a lot of this kind of comes down to the politics of aesthetics. And I don't know, I just
have a concern about that. I understand that people have complained about that issue. But I think
we need to dig a little bit deeper.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. You know what, Chief, I'm happy to talk a little bit about
that because this seems to be the sticking point so far.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. Well, I guess my argument would be in the airport, there's a lot more space.
The bus concourse, Civic Center, Boulder Transit Village, they're just more confined spaces. And
again, the issue comes when we have multiple individuals, or sometimes even groups that are
doing this, and it just becomes very disruptive.

I understand. I've sat on the floor at the airport, too. We all have. If you have a flight canceled, and
those things can get pretty crowded with people waiting, and there's nowhere else to go at the
airport. You're trapped. In this confined space, we would ask those folks to leave the area,
especially if they're not using the transit system.
And so really and truly it's not a problem during certain times of the day. But at nighttime
sometimes, you'll get these huge congregations of people laying all over the floor. And that's when
it becomes a safety issue, and that's when we start getting all the complaints and people will
literally come up the officers and say, this is outrageous. I can't even walk through here. So it
becomes a problem.
MICHAEL MEADER: Madam Chair, it's Mike Meader. I think some of the things-- and again, I
appreciate the discussion-- there are some things we're going to have to address, and I know we're
not all going to agree on, to make sure that we are keeping people safe and secure. And that's the
bottom line. Sometimes I think that we can certainly look at this and continue to find exceptions
or concerns that we have.
But at some point, some of these, we have to just say that our goal and our main purpose is to
provide safe, clean, reliable transportation to people. And we just feel like in this particular case,
this is something we have to do to ensure that we can do that. And so I certainly appreciate all of
the comments. I do. I understand them.
I can say none of these things were put into place-- and hopefully we've made this clear-- to create
any issues from an equity perspective or feeling that we're targeting any populations. These
decisions, I can tell you, are personally made, certainly from my perspective, with an eye for safety
and security, of all of the people that utilize our system. And this is something we need to do to
ensure that safety and security.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. So I guess what I'd like to do is go through the
list of everybody on the phone to see can you live with this as the final version or not. So we've
put a lot of work into this, and we're talking about 50 individual components to the Code of
Conduct. But what I'd like to ask you is in this final version, would you be OK with moving it
forward, or would you say no, unless this is changed, would be really helpful. So let me start with
Britta.
BRITTA FISHER: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so just to make sure I understand is, can we
live with it? Any final comment or concern on that, on-- what was the last part that you said?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It was would you be comfortable moving this document forward
to the Board of Directors, or do you feel like no, we need to address this piece?
BRITTA FISHER: Thank you. And I really want to say I just appreciate being involved in this. It
was, first of all, lovely to have something that wasn't Coronavirus in my schedule, and also, just a
really thoughtful discussion with everyone. So thank you for that.

I think part of what we do when we come together is to talk about many perspectives. And I really
appreciate that a code of conduct is about how we all work together and do life together and do
transit together in this particular application. And so I tried to look at this primarily as somebody
who uses the system and has a range of ages in my household, and a range of uses in our time
there. I do have a public policy perspective in my day job, and so I look at that as well.
One, I continue to encourage us all, and RTD in particular, to think about what are, at the end of
the day, the rules that you will publish, the things that you will use as guides and prompts in the
signage and the things around us that help a parent like me, or someone who doesn't speak English,
or somebody who's visiting from somewhere else, to understand and navigate the basics of what
we're trying to get at here.
And when it comes down to me, it was some of those simple things that we talked about in previous
meetings. And so I won't spend a lot of time on that. But if it's basically that RTD always has the
ability to say this isn't safe, you don't have a fare, and those things, keep it simple.
And when you start prescribing things like lying and sitting, and getting to that granularity, I do
have an equity concern because I very much doubt that when I have been eight months pregnant
and had two kids around me, that if I was sitting down, or I put my carrier on the floor, that
somebody would say, I'm sorry, you can't do that, because I probably would be treated differently
than somebody else who looks different than me.
And so I think I need to speak from my point of privilege and say I am afforded autonomy and
freedom in a variety of ways that not everyone else is in every circumstance. And so since you
asked us to look at equity, I do need to flag rules like 28 that I think could be problematic, while
RTD is trying to come from a safety and security standpoint, may inequitably be adhered to. And
so I do feel like I need to bring that up and bring that forward.
That said, outside of 28, I feel like I could live with most of these here. I do respect the process,
and I do hope that the Directors will all hear from more voices and their constituencies as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Britta, thank you so much for your input. I know how
extraordinarily busy you are, and your perspective has just been phenomenal. So thank you. Gary,
what about you?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Yes, good morning. Thanks for allowing me to add my input. This is so
passionate to so many people. And I understand the perspective from the various views. And
looking at it from a public safety perspective and an EMS response perspective, and what I feel is
the intent of what is being stated here, I think it's important to have this in place.
I can't tell you the number of times I've been with my crews responding in and around RTD
facilities or on vehicles, and the challenges that we have, when you would think that people would
see EMS providers rolling a stretcher through a building would get out of the way, and they don't.
And when you're talking about people being sick or hurt or injured and trying to get to them, and
that being inhibited by people laying on the floor or things of those sorts, it's a challenge from a

safety perspective. I understand. There's both sides. And when you're looking at people being in a
place for an extended period of time if a bus is canceled or a train is delayed or whatever the case
is, and needing a comfortable place to sit, I understand why people would sit on the floor.
I think the intent of this is a bigger picture, and those who are going to the extreme of abusing that
privilege, and what we can put in place for RTD from a security perspective to be able to enforce
that so there is safe passage for the passengers and for responders to get in there when needed. So
I appreciate everybody's comments. From my perspective, I think we should move forward as
stated. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much for your input. Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I'd like to echo what others have said. Thank
you so much for having such an open and robust process to review the Code of Conduct, and I
really appreciate being part of this process. I think the discussion has been great, and a lot of those
fantastic changes have been made.
I still am hung up on number 28. What I keep hearing is that this comes down to a safety issue and
an issue of abusing the privilege of sitting or lying down, which I can appreciate and understand.
And I would urge us to have more discussion on a way to really hit at those two points if that's not
captured in number 27 and number 34 and others so that we can find something that we could all
live with. Other than 28, I can live with everything else in this Code of Conduct. But I really am
hung up on this piece from the equity perspective.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Let's see. What about Kate Barton?
KATE BARTON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I will-- not to belabor, but just echo the my gratitude
for being part of this process. I do think that the Code of Conduct as it stands now is in service to
RTD providing safe and reliable transit service, which I think is ultimately the goal. And I
appreciate the changes that have been made.
I do want to just give credit to those, Mr. Meader and Chief and others, who are dealing with these
issues on a day-to-day basis. And I really respect that the words on the page and the reality, at
times, might be in conflict. And I just want to echo the point that Britta made around creating clear
signage and clear expectation on RTD service so that there's safe service provision, which sounds
like it's ultimately the goal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry. I'm having a hard time finding my unmute. I have a question for
everybody. I would like to know what are the examples in which an RTD client would need to be
laying on the floor? If anybody has a specific example of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Before we do that, Director Williams, is there another comment?

KATE WILLIAMS: No, I'm OK with everything. I'm just really interested in the fact that there is
a objection to us, RTD, objection to RTD interacting with people who are laying on the floor. And
so I just would like to be part of being able to see that, and I'm at a loss. So I don't like to be at a
loss. I'd like to know what the instance is that would be relevant to RTD's transportation to have
people laying on the floor. That's all. And we can do this offline if you want.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that's OK. I will say to you, Britta, according to my notes with
Britta, she said stated that when she was eight months pregnant, she had to sit down on a floor
because she couldn't stand.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not objecting to sitting down on the floor. I have sat on the floor in an
RTD bus station and a [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I think I lost you. But you know what I will do, is-KATE WILLIAMS: And I'm going to have to get off, so I just wanted to point that out. I'm sorry.
I have to get off of the call right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you so much. OK. Director Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm trying.
TROY WHITMORE: I certainly can live with the document being forwarded to the full Board.
I've gleaned a lot of the information. I especially appreciated Britta's comments and Director
Lewis's comments this morning. If there is any way to eliminate some redundancy to give a little
more comfort, that perhaps this isn't 28 and found elsewhere, I guess I'm convinced to look at that.
But I do want to move the document fairly soon.
I don't get a lot of complaints. I deal with a lot of RX commuters and folks from Thornton and
Commerce City. And the term obstacle course, I think Chief Grado mentioned that. And I've heard
that on the limited amount of complaints from my commuters that they get frustrated dodging
bodies. And a lot of times it's those that arrive in Denver early in the morning, from 5-ish to 6:30
AM. So that's what I hear. But again, that's a microcosm of the district clientele, a very small
microcosm. And I get that.
But I do appreciate everybody's input. Again, I can move the document, or I could live with maybe
a little more tweaking if it helps some of our inputters. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Meader needs to leave for another meeting. Thank
you, sir, and we'll be working through Chief Grado to get you the information.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you. I apologize. Thank you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, thank you. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. I really appreciate working in partnership
with everyone on this call. So in my work, my professional work, I work in equity inclusion and
diversity. And one of the things that I've recognized as an equity practitioner is oftentimes we say
that we want equitable outcomes, yet we're willing to set equity aside to be able to move things
forward.
And I think I feel like that is true in this case. And I've heard at least two people share concerns
about equity from number 28. And I will just say that we are not in a place right now to accept
what we know to be inequitable, to know that may cause inequities, and to know that as these
things are enforced-- and we haven't talked about enforcement. I think that's an important piece of
this document as well, is how these things are enforced-- that as these are enforced, that we could
see them unjustly and unfairly targeting a certain demographic.
With that in mind, I would not feel comfortable moving this forward because a lot of the folks who
would be negatively impacted by that actually live in my district, and those complaints do come
to me. So actually, Whitmore, I hope you and I can switch seats because I get a lot of folks coming
to me with these concerns and these complaints. And so I would not feel comfortable.
I do think that 28 is actually covered in a myriad of other rules, and I think in how we enforce that.
So I'll end with this. I used to do gang reduction work where I worked with folks who were actively
in gangs or I worked with individuals who were actively in gangs. And we worked in partnership,
to some degree, with our law enforcement officers. And one of the things that law enforcement
realized very early is that they were not going to arrest their way out of gangs not existing. There
needed to be alternatives for that issue and for that solution.
And so that's where I would encourage the conversation to go, is to figure out how we can find
solutions to deal with the social issues that we're not talking about, but that we're talking about,
that we're not naming. And I personally, where I am in my life professionally and personally, and
where my values are, are tied to I don't want equity to be that thing over there, that thing put over
there for the sake of being able to move things forward.
And in the most respect and kindness and love and care, I cannot move this forward with 28 and
the concerns around equities and inequities. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Well, first of all, I cannot thank everyone on this call
enough for your commitment to the community and your willingness to really delve into this
document. And it's really taught me a lot about the choice of words we use in our industry, not
understanding that regular people don't understand stuff like the trailblazer, that kind of stuff.
I, too, have a concern with 28. I think that we asked for the community to come in and to work
with us and to be unbiased and open, and this was going to be a true dialogue. I understand the
need for it. But I also think that it is in other places within the document and it doesn't need to be
just singled out.
So Chief Grado, I would respectfully ask for you to go back and meet with Marisela and Mr.
Meader and Mr. Ford to talk about how it can be incorporated into other places rather than being

singled out because for as much work as we've done-- and this has been a truly remarkable
experience for this agency-- I don't want to submit something to the Board that is controversial
over one piece out of 50. I think that it would really diminish the work that we've done here in
terms of community collaboration.
So I would respectfully ask that that be done based on all the information. And I really do
appreciate everybody's diverse components. Gary, I understand completely where you're coming
from as an EMS person. But I think that the voice of the community in terms of equity and
sensitivity has really kind of bubbled to the top in terms of how we work with our diverse
population that we serve.
So I'm going to ask, as the Chair of this committee, that you guys go back and take a look at 28
and see if it can be stricken from here and seeing that it's incorporated somewhere else.
And also in line with signage in the areas where we do not want this to take place, particularly
since you've cited the bus concourses and stuff. I think we can get that message across pretty easily.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. You know, the more I think about it and hear the input, I think we
can handle those concerns in the other portions of the Code. And I think it is extremely sensitive.
And so I guess I would line up with you and Director Lewis and others to take a hard look at 28.
And then in regard to something I think Britta or Aubrey mentioned, this is obvious, but the whole
signage and guidance messaging is critical to this situation. So I would hope that that's a high
priority with whatever Code is adopted by the board to help us with clarity. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Thank you so much. OK, are there any other
thoughts before I move on to a white paper discussion?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford. I would just also add just the implementation of the
policies and procedures is yet another filter that I think we want to make sure we manage and
monitor because I think you can write a lot of different things, but how does it actually get executed
is going to be a concern. And I think if we know those things are going well, we'll have even more
confidence in what we're presenting. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you, sir. OK. Chief Grado, do you want to talk
about your white paper?
BOB GRADO: Actually, I don't know if Marisela is still on because she was going to lead up that
effort.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, she did have to get off.

BOB GRADO: Yeah, I see her still clicked in, and she said she was going to monitor. So while
we're waiting for that, I just want to say I appreciate everyone's input, too. We will take a look at
28 and see if we can melt that into other parts of this and make it make sense.
Really, the bottom line is it's a safety issue. Maybe if we take that angle and to say, if it's creating
a hazard, as what Gary spoke to, if we have an EMS situation and they need to bring a gurney
through and things like that. So we'll work on that. Marisela, she's not shining in here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is Marisela going to be able to join us? I know she had another
meeting.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, it doesn't look like it. So I'll just speak. We briefly spoke about this, and she
was going to help us create a white paper, just a preface, if you will, to what all these discussions
were, and just kind of outline the entire process for everybody and provide that.
I really wish she was on here to get into the details of that. She had some great ideas to put forward
on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Miss McManus, do we have another meeting scheduled for the
Ad Hoc Committee?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sorry. We were hoping to get consensus and moving things forward so
that this could be on the agenda for the 14th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But could we add an additional meeting just to talk about the white
paper and to get the revisions back for 28?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure. We would have to find out when most people were available
because it would not be able to be two weeks from now on a Wednesday morning. We would need
to have the meeting, maybe, Monday or Tuesday.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm thinking because of the robust discussion around 28, people
would be willing to do that, number one. And I would feel so much better going to the Board with
a full consensus. And then additionally, we could hear more about the white paper. So those are
the only two items that I think that we need to discuss. So that might not be bad. Let me see. Mr.
Sherman.
SPEAKER 3: He's saying how about next Wednesday 8:00 to 9:30?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm good with that. Is everybody else OK with that?
BOB GRADO: This is Bob Grado. I would appreciate that. It gives us a couple days to work on
this ahead of that. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. I was just checking my schedule. That definitely will work for me,
and I encourage that we do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm available and I'm happy to do it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I don't think Director Williams is on. Aubrey, are you
on still?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Yes, that works for me. I'll be there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Kate Barton, does that work for you?
KATE BARTON: Unfortunately it does not. But I'm willing to take a look at things before or after
the meeting and provide comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, that would be great. And then I know Britta had to get off.
Gary, does that work for you?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: I'll have to look at my schedule. If I'm available, I can certainly
participate.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am committed to, if people cannot make it, to call them
personally to go through the revisions and stuff to see if you're OK with this. But I do think, before
we go back to the Board on the 14th, I would love to have a real consensus because we've just
worked so hard, and this has been such an amazing process, that I want to make sure that people
feel really positive and good about what we're moving forward.
OK. With that, are there any other matters to come before this committee? All right. Hearing none,
I'm going to adjourn. It is 8:58 and we are adjourned. Thank you so much.
SPEAKER 4: Thank you.
BOB GRADO: Thank you, everyone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

