Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
April 11, 2013 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 12:09 p.m.
In attendance were Chair Anderson, Director Bagley, 1st Vice-Chair, Director Hoy,
2nd Vice-Chair, Director Daly, Secretary and Director Walker, Treasurer.
Other Board Members in attendance: Director Solano
Staff Present: General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue

II.

April Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Anderson acknowledged Director Solano’s presence and stated to him that if
he has any questions or comments to please raise his hands and she would
recognize him.
Chair Anderson asked if there were any questions related to the April 16 Board
agenda. Director Bagley asked General Manager Washington about item B, US 36
Bus Rapid Transit-Use of Contingency Funds, under recommended action. General
Manager Washington explained there are three entities who are part of this
partnership: DRCOG, RTD and HPTE (CDOT). Under Phase 2, the RTD and
DRCOG leftover will be used for the purchase of BRT buses. CDOT plans to keep
their leftovers in the US 36 corridor but use the funds for structural rehab for
bridges, etc. between the US 36 corridor and DUS Station. In the first action
taken, it was silent relative to the use of any leftover funds so this action is to
define the use of those funds. Director Hoy added his understanding that there will
be concessionaire operating the toll road and this road will need to be turned over
to them in good working order. General Manager Washington indicated there is a
potential issue where some members of the US 36 Commuting Solutions want to
use the leftovers for transit demand solutions (TDM)that will go to the US 36
Commuting Solutions. RTD is clear in its position that these funds should be used

for the remaining commitment for FasTracks. DRCOG is amicable to how these
funds get used as long as there is total consensus for using these funds for buses.
Director Bagley inquired about the fund split. General Manager Washington stated
it is generally 1/3 for each of the partners. He also emphasized that these funds
would not be immediately available since the project will not be completed until
2015, and it is an unknown what contingencies, if any, may appear. Director Daly
inquired what was the proposed use of the funds by TDM and General Manager
Washington responded there are some nonprofit entities in the corridor who may
have a need.
Director Hoy stated that a key lesson for the future is to define the use of any
leftover funds upfront in the process from a partnership relationship.
Pertaining to item D, adoption of 2014 performance measures, General Manager
Washington indicated that staff will make it easier for the Board to understand by
incorporating this with the budget where the numbers should be available. Director
Walker commented that we really need a policy where the Board can be focused on
the policy and not necessarily the numbers.
Director Anderson stated there was mass confusion on the Board from the
discussion on the 2014 performance measure. Many of the Board members are
new and do not understand the budget process. Some of the discussion did not
need to happen. She would really like us to focus on the K.I.S.S. principle which
can reduce the confusion and misinterpretation of the measures. There was one
sentence in the report that was not clear and could have led the Board members to
believe there will be a fare increase. This needs to be simple to understand.
Director Daly commented on item C that Dave Genova had given him a copy of the
historical background on the vintage rolling stock.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve moving the April Board
agenda to the April 16 Board meeting.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed.
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent
A.

Access-a-Ride Travel Training Project

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a contract with Via
Mobility Services for the provision of Travel Training services. Performance under
the contract is for a three (3) year period and the total contract amount shall not
exceed $396,288.00.



Recommended Action
B.
US 36 Bus Rapid Transit – Use of Contingency Funds from Phase I and II
Commitments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors modify the formal actions taken on August 23, 2011 and July 24, 2012
concerning RTD funding provided to the Colorado Department of Transportation
(CDOT) and the Colorado High Performance Toll Enterprise (HPTE) for Phase I and
Phase II of the US 36 Managed Lanes Project. Specifically, it is recommended that
the RTD Board of Directors allow the following actions:



C.

Any RTD funding left over after completion of Phase I may be used for the
Phase II project; and
Any RTD funding left over after the completion of both Phase I and Phase II will
be used for acquisition of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) vehicles for the corridor.
Donation of Vintage Rolling Stock

It is Recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to donate seven
vintage trolleys and buses for restoration purposes to the Pikes Peak Historical
Street Railway Foundation, (dba) Colorado Springs & Interurban Railway.
D.

Adoption of 2014 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the attached 2014 Performance Measures for Goals 17. There are 22 performance measures in total.
III.

Introduction of Youth in Arts
Chair Anderson presented an idea that she had to get more youth involved in our
Board meetings by inviting them to come and showcase their talent to the Board.
She thought this might help to generate interest in transit by the youth as well as
mellow out the meetings. They would only come to the Board meetings periodically
and spend only a few minutes. The first group she is considering is called Sound

Waves which signs to music. This is a youth group ranging in age from 4-18. She
thought we might try it in the June meeting to tie in with our patriotic months of
June-July.
General Manager Washington expressed there need to be some tight criteria around
this program and what it is about. The Committee members stated they were in
support of this as a good PR effort but agreed that a policy with criteria should be
established.
IV.

Other Matters







Director Daly shared that constituents in his district had expressed concerns
over the change in route 116X which will be changing with the rollout of the
West Corridor. Many of the concern centers around the concept of the one
seat ride and now this route will feed into the Federal Center where they will
have to catch the light rail into downtown. There is concern over the fare
changing from express to regional which is a higher cost; there is also concern
that the bus will terminate at DUS in lower downtown versus at Civic Center
where most of the users need to connect. He has talked to our service-planning
department and has asked them to keep an eye on this for flexibility to change
should this have a negative impact on ridership. Director Hoy stated that he
had talked to a previous driver on this route who stated the ridership was not
there for this route.
Director Walker shared there is also a discussion on a route 14 which staff is
looking at and addressing some of the concerns of the constituents.
Director Hoy referenced the white paper on TOD and encouraged all the Board
members to read and become acquainted with the issues. He and Director
James are pushing for a plan to dispose of unused land. They are not concerned
about trying to sell the land cheap but that we are doing all we can to
effectively market the land. They are pushing for a strategy so that the buying
market will know what is for sale. Director Bagley added that the May or June
study session appears to be a good time to have a discussion on the TOD white
paper. Director Solano added that he has been in touch with a Newsflight
nonprofit group who are interested in the property in Ft. Lupton. They want an
opportunity to present their plan.
Director Bagley identified multiple items he had for discussion:
o Trip report-need a policy on every Board member doing a trip report
o Survey monkey-appreciates the response thus far from 11 of the 15 Board
members
o Board resolution 05, series of 2008 on Board operating conduct. Need to
review this item in a study session. Chair Anderson indicated she is
reviewing with everyone in the one-on-one’s and has asked for feedback
from them.

Protocols and Processes for meeting behavior and expectations
Offline Discussions-items not related to the specific matter at hand should
be taken offline
o Reference source library where documents such as the Title VI can be stored
and retrieved
o One-on-one meetings with each other to improve the communications flow
Director Walker thanked General Manager Washington for sharing the articles on
financing projects in other transit properties and RTD becoming a farm agency.
o
o



V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:25 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

