2025-01-09
Special Executive Committee Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Good afternoon, everyone. This is the Thursday, January 9 Executive
Committee. We are convened as of 12:00 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to
mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website.
During today's meeting, we're providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, known as CART.
Anyone who would like to access the service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of the meeting in Spanish. Also, a livestream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. And I, Chair Bouquet, am present. For the record, I also want to note, we do
have several other Directors present. I do see Director Larsen, Director Gutschenritter, Director Chandler,
and Director Paglieri. Am I missing anyone, Mr. Kroll? Sounds good. Perfect.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topics
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTB Board office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
And Mr. Kroll, do we have any virtual hands raised?

JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Bouquet. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. We have
one individual present who has raised their hand in desire of providing public comment. And that is Richard
Bamber.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Mr. Bamber, you have the floor.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hello, good evening, and Happy New Year. And first, I'd like to offer my
congratulations to the five of you on the Executive Committee for your appointment. The purpose of the
committees is to really dig into the weeds of the issues and make sure that when resolutions and motions
are advanced to the full Board, that they are ready for prime time, they're baked properly, and they have
been really sort of scrutinized. And if that process takes more than a month, 2, 3, 4, so be it.
So the first thing GDT-- on behalf of GDT, we'd like to see is a sort of open dialogue with the Board about
what the Committees are doing, the full Board. And then we would hopefully, tonight, like to see
appointments that facilitate this process. Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Bamber. My apologies to you. before calling on the speaker.
I do want to give a reminder, too, for those who are going to be participating. This is publicly recorded. If
you do not wish to be recorded, your comments can also be submitted via writing. Again, comments can
be submitted to the Board Office at the following email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Mr. Bamber is a regular and has commented before, so I think he knows this. Are there any other speakers,
Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: At this time, Chair Bouquet, there are no other speakers.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Board Office staff, were any emailed comments received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: There were no email comments received in relation to today's meeting.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue, we
will close the public comment period at this time.
So there is one recommended action on the agenda for this afternoon. That action is for the 2025 committee
appointments for the Board of Directors to ratify the 2025 standing committee appointments. Before we
take any action on this matter, I would like to first discuss the committee membership preferences provided
by our colleagues, as well as offer a suggested starting point for these assignments. So I believe-- oh, Mr.
Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Sorry for the interruption, Chair Bouquet. We noticed that the preferences did not make
it into the packet. But I do have the preferences, as provided to the Board Office, here and available to
share, if that is of use. Although I think you were going to make a recommendation off of the preferences
that you have reviewed. And if it's of value, I'm happy to share this at any time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Again, these preferences can be sent via
email to the Directors as well. But if, any time, if it is requested by the Directors to see the preferences, we
can, of course, pop that up, Mr. Kroll.
OK, so Executive Committee members, these are the folks I am recommending, or the Directors I'm
recommending, for the Standing Committees. We will then go into discussion and then ultimately vote upon

this and bring it into consensus. And again, this information will be provided to the other Board of Directors
as well, and of course is provided in real time.
So each of the standing committees will have, or is getting proposed to have seven directors on each one.
I will begin with Finance and Planning. I have Director Benker, Director Catlin, Director Geissinger, Director
Gutschenritter, Director Guzman, Director Larsen, Director O'Keefe on Finance and Planning.
On Operations, Safety, and Security, I have Director Buzek, Director Chandler, Director Harwick, Director
Nicholson, Director Paglieri, Director Ruscha, and Director Whitmore.
And finally, for the Performance Committee, I have Director Buzek, Director Catlin, Director Guissinger,
Director Gutschenritter, Director Guzman, Director Larsen, and Director Nicholson.
At this time, I am open to discussion from any of-- I'll start with the Executive Committee Members, if there's
any discussion at this time. Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes. It seems to me, parliamentary procedure-wise, we should have a motion before
we go into discussion, so we have a starting point. If that is of your pleasure, Mr. Chair, I would make that
motion to approve this roster so we can move forward with the discussion.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sounds good. So I have Second Vice Chair Whitmore and then first Vice Chair
O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: That's correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Do I have any No votes on that?
JACK KROLL: Well, I think you have a hand there, from Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, discussion now.
JACK KROLL: Perfect. Yes, Director. Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I'd just like to say that I know how complicated and how dedicated so many folks
are on the Board and have expressed interest in being involved and getting engaged. And I think that that
really speaks to the interest and passion and commitment of so many people who are new and returning
to the Board.
So I'm certain that creating this list and balancing all of the various interests was not an easy process. And
I just wanted to say that I think that Chair Bouquet has done a fantastic job. And I think what we have in
front of us really should be an easy acclimation or unanimous vote for all of us to approve because I think
it balances, as the public comment mentioned, the folks with experience, the folks who are new here, it
addresses-- everyone I see on these committees comes in with the relevant experience and interest to
what they are doing.
So I think we're going to have a number of folks here who really know what they're-- who are going to be
prepared to do the job well and work well together. So I just wanted to say I appreciate the Chair for his
hard work in making this happen. And I think we've got a good committee list going forward.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Secretary. Yes, I will make a comment on that. This did take
some time and, of course, a lot of thinking. Directors will see, based on their preferences, Directors' first
preference, based on the survey that they filled out, was honored, ultimately, for all 14 Directors. So again,
it's a balance. It's hard when it comes down to finding out where folks will go. But again, pretty confident in
this list. Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes, I'll be brief. I just want to echo Secretary Nicholson's comments. Thank you,
Mr. Chair. Great work. I think it's a fair list and it slots people in where their strengths and their interests are.
And you're here. You are off to a grand start, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Seeing no other hands from committee members, I will
turn now to Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I guess I had my blind-- or however Director O'Keefe
phrased it before. Sorry, I had to flip the switch. So either I'm missing something in the packet, or I missed
something in the transcript. But as it relates to performance, who are the members that you are bringing
forth for consideration?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. So the members in consideration would be Director Buzek, Director Catlin,
Director Guissinger, Director Gutschenritter, Director Guzman, Director Larsen, and Director Nicholson.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And being hearing impaired, I think I caught some of those. I'll look at
the transcript. I don't know if it's appropriate right now, Mr. Chair, to make a comment on the process and
how we might be able to improve it, or if that is for other matters. So I'll let you decide.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I'm comfortable with having the conversation for the process now, if you'd like.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you, sir. So I just wanted to point out that two years ago-- this was in
my first year on the Board-- we did a survey. And one of the Directors, the newer Directors, had put down
"Performance" as a first choice. And then they were advised that Performance is a standing committee, but
not a main standing committee of reference, and that the team really needed to know where what their
preference would be between ONS as we called it then, and FNP.
And that Director moved away from Performance and selected one of those, and said upon urging from
staff and more senior Board members. The second year, we still had a survey. But the way it was presented
and the math looked like a binary. You had to pick our main standing committee, which is FNP, or now we
call it OSS, or Performance.
And I gave that feedback to staff. And there was, I think, just some more discussion around that. And then
the third year, we had that same binary-looking choice between what is your first. And the difference here
is I think last year, Standing Members-- well, none of us were new because it was an off year in elections.
We all understood the instructions, if that makes sense.
And there was an exception with Director Buzek, who was very clear his focus was Performance. And he
had been a previous Chair. And that is why we had two. We had an extra open position on one of the
standing committees, and I was really fortunate to be allowed to serve on both. And I think that was
appropriate because that was just very well explained and that was very intentional. And Director Buzek,
again, had that experience. And that was his focus.

When I'm looking at the chart of preferences that I see that we've published every year, I noticed that we
had more newer members select Performance as a first preference, although that has not been the
instruction that we have been given. And that's part of the written and the public record in previous executive
meetings, come January or whatnot. And so I think that in interest of fairness and to avoid confusion, how
it is is how it is. And as Chair, you obviously have the right to make these recommendations.
I would say that, moving forward, like for things that are Performance, which is a special committee similar
to an ad hoc but has a very unique role, or for some of these external appointments, that we ask for letters
of intent, just like we do with Audit.
I know Audit is its own beast, and it has a special place, and it has its own charter. We have an external
audit committee, and that's appropriate. But I'm just thinking that, so that we don't have this confusion or
any consternation next year-- which would be the fourth year in a row, I think-- that that is a process we
should consider, whether we do it informally-- and you can start that as Chair right now, Mr. Chair, because
we still have external appointments that haven't been decided-- or something that we work on via our
bylaws, I would just strongly urge-- excuse me, urge that.
So for example, I put down Performance as a second because that was the instruction I was given. And so
just with that being said, and then the conversations we've had about seniority and returning members, I
feel like I've said what I've said. But moving forward, Performance is a special committee. It's very unique.
We've talked about qualifications and the like. And I think it would have been nice if those who wanted to
be on Performance, because it is a very special privilege, had been able to write, like, letters of intent.
Because it is not a standard standing committee. So I hope what I said made sense.
And please, Mr. Chair, if I need to add any clarification, please ask because we are on the public record.
And I don't mean to disparage any decisions that you're making or that the team is making, just making an
observation of how this has gone on in the last couple of years and how we could make sure we have the
fairness, transparency. And also, there's a lot of work to be done. And there's plenty of work to go around.
Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. Feedback is heard. Something in
consideration and potentially, again, forming a working group sometime this year to discuss this, when it
comes down to committee assignments, obviously, going into 2026, might not be the worst idea when it
comes down to fairness. As it stands right now, obviously it is up to the Chair's discretion with this. And I'll
try my best when it comes down to honoring what Directors ultimately suggested and balancing out many
several factors. But really appreciate your feedback. So thank you very much, Director Ruscha.
Next up, I do see Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: I just wanted to ask what would be the process to start the discussion of changing,
particularly the time and possibly the day of the Performance Committee meeting. That 8:30 AM time is
typically a time where I'm already double-booked, as I am for this coming meeting on the 13th. And it's
probably the most inconvenient possible time for me, personally, that it could be. And so I just would love
to get that changed, if that's possible, before the first meeting. Or at any rate, just find out how to get that
discussion going, assuming all these go as proposed.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Great question, Director Larson. Mr. Kroll.

JACK KROLL: Yeah. So you've foreshadowed a conversation that I think is going to come later, under other
matters, with respect to the timing of this meeting. Once the Executive Committee takes an action here to
appoint the members of the Performance Committee, we can do some outreach. And we'll have to
coordinate schedules on the back end with GM and CEO Johnson to find certain availability windows.
Ultimately, the timing for the committee meetings is set in the bylaws. And so if there was going to be some
kind of permanent adjustment to those, that would necessitate a bylaw change. However, there's latitude
within the bylaws, with respect to the Chair and Vice Chair of each committee being able to adjust the timing
of the committee meeting.
At the end of the day, though, we want to make sure that everyone's available who's on the committee so
we can work diligently. I'm not sure if we'll have the capacity to get things rescheduled for the meeting on
Monday, but we will do our best to find a time that is mutually beneficial for everyone involved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Any further questions, Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Thank you. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I just wanted to actually echo a little bit what Director Ruscha said. It did
strike me that, because there are not so much because of any kind of special nature of Performance, but
just because typically Directors are on either Finance and Planning or Operations, Safety, and Security.
And then some of them are on Performance, that the way weighting them the way that we did is sort of a
strange mechanism because it is basically a binary choice between OSS and Finance and Planning.
What I think might make sense for next year, and I've seen this used in other contexts, would be like a point
system where you have the three committees. And then you can give them-- you have 6 points, for example.
And you can divide those up among the committees that you are interested in. And that way, you'd also be
able to indicate, oh, well, I really, really care about x to the exclusion of anything else, or I want performance
and this but not-- you know.
And so I think that that might be a way to address some of Director Ruscha's concerns, though obviously
not all of them because it wouldn't involve writing a letter.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Interesting take on the point system. Mr. Kroll, I saw your hand pop up. Did you want
to respond to Secretary Nicholson?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, the Board Office is certainly open to feedback on this, and will be happy to run a
process that meets the needs of the Board. I just want to clarify that, from where I sit, having come into
RTD, this being my second round of committee appointments, last year and this year, there was never
instructions provided to the Board with respect to having a binary choice between Finance and Planning,
and Operations, Safety, and Security.
Rather, that's been, I think, an ingrained practice that the Board has typically seen those two committees,
for whatever reason, as being more of the significant committees. And I would encourage the Board to not- especially as we have new folks coming in here-- to not view that as the case. All three of the standing
committees, as well as the Independent Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, should carry equal
weight. They each have distinct roles.

And to Director Larsen's query at the outset, or just earlier, with respect to the timing of it, one of the things
that had persisted, and I think was creating a sense that the Performance Committee was less than in some
way-- which is, I cannot stress enough, absolutely not true, and would be a poor perspective for, I think,
Directors to take on the matter-- is that there was no set time for the Performance Committee in the bylaws.
And there were set times for the Operations, Safety, and Security and Finance and Planning Committee.
So that precipitated a recommendation that there be a set time for the Performance Committee to cement
amongst the broader Board perspective on your standing committees, a sense that the committee held
equal weight with the others. So I just wanted to put that out there for clarification, and obviously happy to
take any feedback and advice as we go into the committee assignment process for 2026 in about 10, 11
months.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. And yes, always looking for efficiency and
fairness. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, my comment is similar to what has already been said. But specifically to the
OSS committee, I too have a standing meeting on Monday mornings at 8:30, and it's in the bylaws. So I
would propose that we have a ad hoc bylaw committee to take a look at those bylaws.
And absolutely, there needs to be a target time and date because I think it holds everybody accountable.
But there might be something in there in the bylaws that said "also subject to discretion of the committee."
Currently, there is nothing in the bylaws that state that.
And there are other things, I think, that should be addressed, as we've noted before about bylaws. So I
would recommend that we have a bylaw committee, ad hoc, maybe just two of us to go through those a
little more in depth and get feedback from the rest of the Directors so that we can change those.
Because I'm in the same boat as Director Larsen. I have standing meetings on Mondays at 8:30 for my
other "job" job. And it would be a little more difficult to attend. And I absolutely want to be a good, upstanding
member of that committee. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Chandler. One thing I would respond with is, yeah,
maybe not necessarily an ad hoc committee, but potentially a working group of two Directors to look into
the bylaws. But yeah, thank you for the comments. I think that that's all I have here.
Any further Director comments, questions, or discussions? OK. Oh, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And this might technically be out of order because it's relative but not
specifically germane to the motion on the table. And it's just about external appointments that you get to
make as our Chair.
And I'm not sure what, in a new Director training, went out. But when I was a new Director, there were some
descriptions of what those appointments meant. And I know I had to ask a lot of followup questions because
I don't know if it was as clear. So I don't know if we've clarified that. In the communications I received as a
current Director, I didn't see a lot of explanation. But as a current Director, I already knew. I didn't have to
ask those questions.
So I'm only pointing this out because last year I was asked if I would serve as an alternate with DRCOG.
And I was clear with the Board Office staff that there would be three if not four times during the year that I
have a standing committee and I would not be able to make it. And I was told that we can be remote.

What I did not know until after it was too late, that with DRCOG, you cannot vote or speak if you are remote.
And so I felt like I wasn't able to participate or represent the agency in those times I had to be remote. So I
just wanted to say, before any final decisions are made, it might be a good idea for a full explanation of
those external assignments that have been requested, as well as the dates, times, and any special
considerations, like the one I just mentioned.
Because people could always elect to change later, with your permission. But just for a governance
perspective, it's good if we know where we're going straight out of the gate, and not end up in a situation
like I did. So again, that's a point of feedback.
And I apologize because that's not what we're voting on today-- or your, excuse me, committee is voting
on today. So thank you for giving me the time. I just wanted to flag it before final decisions were made so
we didn't have any issues. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. Mr. Kroll, do you want to respond, in regards
to if external entities, in regards to times or descriptions of it, if that information was provided to new
Directors or Director-elects at the time?
JACK KROLL: The information that we provided was, if any Director had questions about the commitments,
that they could contact the Board Office for more information. At this point, we didn't receive any inquiries.
But that's duly noted, and we can put something together and send it out. Obviously, you haven't made any
decisions on what those will be. So this will give us a little bit more time to pass along information, and we
can get that out. And if anyone would like to change their stated preferences, it can be done.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr Kroll. Director Ruscha, I still see your hand. Any further comment or
question? Perfect. Thank you so much.
OK, prior to us formally taking an action, I do want to just give one-- oh, sorry. Any other Directors would
like to make comment, questions? Perfect.
We did change-- oh, yes, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. I just want to say that I'm here. Hello. Thank you for doing this work. I appreciate
it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, and duly noted. Director Guzman is present. Perfect. I just wanted to say,
when I originally got on the Board in '21, it used to be, if I remember correctly, it was up to the Chair to
actually appoint the Vice Chairs and Chairs of each of these standing committees, or each of these
committees. We did change that in my time serving on the Board, where it is now up to the committee
members to ultimately select their Vice Chairs and Chairs.
Why I'm saying this now is if we are successful to pass this motion, ultimately, I highly recommend those
who are going to be serving on these committees, who are interested in those Vice Chair and Chair
positions, call the committee members. You will be selecting your Vice Chair and your Chair during your
first meeting.
And ultimately, it is an open vote. I do want to also put emphasis on that, especially for our new Board
Members. So if that is something you're interested in, being a Chair or a Vice Chair for these committees,
it is ultimately up to you. It is ultimately to wrangle the votes that you need. So just wanted to say that.

With that being said, we are going to, as-- yes, Mr. Kroll, sorry.
JACK KROLL: I would just ask, before you have the vote taken, would you please read, again, the
assignments as you have recommended them, so that everyone has a clear understanding one more time
of what those are?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely. Yes, so to recap what we have discussed, these will be the Directors
appointed to Finance and the Planning Committee. This is going to be Director Benker, Director Catlin,
Director Guissinger, Director Gutschenritter, Director Guzman, Director Larsen, and Director O'Keefe.
For the Directors, for the recommendation for Operations, Safety, and Security-- Director Buzek, Director
Chandler, Director Harwick, Director Nicholson, Director Paglieri, Director Ruscha, Director Whitmore.
And finally, the recommendation for Performance-- Director Buzek, Director Catlin, Director Guissinger,
Director Gutschenritter, Director Guzman, Director Larsen, and Director Nicholson. Do I need to repeat for
anyone? This information will also be sent. So ultimately, I don't want to be out of line with this. Do we have
a motion?
JACK KROLL: The motion was already made and seconded. I believe Director Whitmore made the motion.
And I forget who made the second.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director O'Keefe.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe. Yes, that's correct.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I beat Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: No, I made the motion. You didn't beat me this time. The only one that beats me is
Director Ruscha, OK?
[LAUGHTER]
Sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll be honest. I actually had First Vice Chair O'Keefe, Director Whitmore, but if you
were so inclined. So I'll have the first as Second Vice Chair Whitmore. And then the second will be First
Vice Chair O'Keefe as the second. Are there any No votes on the item?
Seeing none. Then this motion will pass with five Yes and zero No. Perfect. Thank you, everyone.
OK, moving on. We have no discussion items for today's meeting. Before I do open the floor for other
Directors to raise other matters, there is one item I do wish to bring up, and that is regard to my personal
preferences. And as Director Larsen brought up, when it comes down to timing, we need to make sure that
when we are setting our committee times, it ultimately works with our committee members.
For those that do not know, I am a full-time public school teacher. I have a very certain window during the
middle of the day of when I can meet. And as it stands right now, I can meet at noon. But preferably, I would
like to propose moving the Executive Committee to 11:15 AM, going forward. Just based on, ultimately, I
think this would be better for my availability. I talked to several of the current Executive Committee
members. Is there any objection from Executive Committee members to moving it to 11:15, going forward?

TROY L. WHITMORE: Not at all.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well, I greatly appreciate it. I do not see any hands in objection. Thank you, the four
of you. I greatly appreciate it. And thank you for those who have been adaptable to this. I greatly appreciate
it. Thank you.
Yes, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So sorry, but while you're on that topic, just for the other committees as well, although
we do have times established in the bylaws for the evening meetings on the standing committees of OSS
and Finance and Planning, they do seem to work for everybody. And we know that those are standing
times.
But we also need to keep in mind that an executive committee is a different animal and so is Performance.
We need to be able to work with staff and their availability as well. So it cannot just be about the members
of the committee. We have to consider the time of the staff members that may need to be present on those
committees.
If that comes up in other committees, it's just something to be aware of before we start making moves that
we need to ask as well, not just Directors, but staff if they will be available. Because they do have work to
do to keep this agency running. And so I'm just adding that in so that that's a thought before we get to those
conversations in the other committees.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Director Guzman, a good reminder. Hopefully, staff,
we can make 11:15 work, going forward. If not, we can have that conversation, potentially offline. All right,
perfect. Thank you for the reminder. Are there any other matters to discuss for this Executive Committee
meeting?
OK, I am seeing none. With that, I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Secretary Nicholson. Do I have a second?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, perfect. The meeting is now adjourned. Thank you, everyone, for joining us
this afternoon.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Have a great afternoon. Thank you.

