2023-02-15
Operations and Safety Committee pt 1
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Wednesday, February 15th Operations and Safety Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM. I would respectfully ask that everyone attending this
meeting mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. It looks like we have a larger number than normal of participants.
Please note that until further notice the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held
remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
possible on the Board's website. Visit RTDDenver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available
via the RTD YouTube channel.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Please note that in this meeting I am operating from an iPad. If I don't recognize you
to speak I would ask the Board to advise me that somebody is waiting to speak. Directors and staff
participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by
pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on your phone press star 6. I would now like to call the role
for the committee members. Director Julien Bouquet
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Bob Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Joyann Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Marjorie Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Vice Chair Troy Whitman.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Paul Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am Kate Williams and I am also present. I see that we also have Director Catlin, I
noted. Director Tisdale. I don't know who else I am missing. Director Guissinger?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Davidson.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Davidson. Thank you. I hear no one else at the moment so we will record
those directors as in attendance. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding
month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9
on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak.
If you are dialed in, again, star six to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that participating in
this process you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded then your comments will need to
be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for this committee or if
any member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the
Board Office at the following email address. RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During public comment the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their name. Each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. We'd appreciate it if you would try and maintain that time limit. Can you tell me, Board Office, who
is our first speaker?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Our first speaker is Jerry Orten.
KATE WILLIAMS: Jerry, if you would please state your name and then you may proceed.
JERRY ORTEN: Good evening, Board members. My name is Jerry Orton. I'm a Present of Lower
Downtown Neighborhood Association. Thank you for your service to our community as elected officials.
Thank you Debra Johnson, CEO and GM of the RTD and Chief Fitzgerald for your service to our
community.
I'm here to speak to the code of conduct. We very much appreciate the code of conduct being considered
by the committee and then presumptively by the Board as well. In our view, in my view, of our
Neighborhood Association, which encompasses the Union Station and the Chestnut Pavilion, as well as
the bus blocks, safety and public health are first and foremost before ridership. And so we really
appreciate the attention that RTD has given to the Union Station area since the rather dramatic press
release of the Union in November of '21.
And since then, we have seen significant improvements. And I know that there's other improvements in
process. And I believe one of those improvements is this code of conduct. I know that's been underway
for some time and consideration. And we really appreciate that is being undertaken by the committee.
And recommend that the committee look at that very carefully in terms of the public health and safety of
our riders, which I'm one of. I don't ride RTD every day, but I rode yesterday.
So we're a one car family and we very much appreciate the public transportation that's available to us
through RTD. And in that context, we just look to RTD to provide us with public safety and public health
first before we get on transit. And so in that respect, we really appreciate you examining the code of
conduct that's under consideration. Thank you for hearing me. Thanks again for your service.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Orton. Who is our next speaker?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Our next speaker is Armando Saldate.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. He'll elucidate to us a little better about the name.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Saldate.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
ARMANDO SALDATE: Good afternoon. Can you all hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: We can.
ARMANDO SALDATE: Great. Hi, I'm Armando Saldate, the Executive Director of Public Safety here in
Denver. I thank the Board for allowing me time to address you all today. I too am here to talk about the
code of conduct and service suspension policy. On behalf of Denver's Department of Public Safety and
our Administration, Mayor Hancock and the Administration.
First of all, I'd be remiss if I didn't express my thanks to the partnership of CEO Johnson and Chief
Fitzgerald. They have been excellent partners in our deliverance of Public Safety to RTD to the Union
Station and other platforms of transit here in Denver. As you all know and as indicated by Mr. Orton, the
previous speaker, in November last year we obviously had some issues and major issues around safety
and public health in Union Station.
But RTD in partnership with Denver police and our public health and environment, our department of
safety really have done a lot in the areas of improving safety for our riders and folks traversing the
platforms. I think this code of conduct, the revisions that are proposed will be another step towards
making our platform safer and our public transit safer for passengers. It is a constant complaint that I
receive and concern from people in the community around, even my own employees that utilize RTD to
come commute to work every day expressing issues of public safety through the transit system.
I've also heard improvements, as Mr. Orton indicated, with some of the changes we've done around our
environmental changes that we've made there and some of the investments we've made. And I really just
want to say that I thank you all for considering this. And thanks again to the partnership with your RTD
leadership. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Just one moment I'd like to acknowledge Director Guzman has joined
us. I don't know if there are any other directors who have added on since. OK. Who is our next speaker,
please?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Trudy Gygi. Trudy, you're up.
TRUDY GYGI: Hi, everyone. Thank you Chair Williams. Thank you Board members for allowing me to
speak and to listening today. My name is Trudy Gygi. I don't represent a group. I don't represent an
organization. I am just a person that lives in the community and uses the transit.
I'm from a family who loves transit. I even raised a pilot, so he never really grew out of the planes, trains,
and automobiles stage of his life. And I also-- I live in Louisville and my kids open enrolled to a nearby
high school in part, in large part, because the transit, the local bus made it so easy to get to. So my kids
have taken the bus since they were very young and it was a trusted part of our way of getting around up
here in the community.

I have two comments I'd like to share for your consideration today. One is I feel like these changes, I'm
talking about the 2023 code of conduct and service suspension policy revisions, I feel like right now
they're going too far and are too broad. So I'd like to talk a little bit about that. And I would really like to
encourage you all to have a community engagement process. I know you've done that in the past. And I
would like to ask that you take the time to do that again this year.
And these are important changes. And I think the community should have conversations, I'm sure you'd
appreciate hearing from others. As far as my belief that the changes go too far and too broad. I feel like if
someone is riding the bus, train, and they're not otherwise violating other rules or causing harm, there's
no need to criminalize and penalize behavior just because they're there for a long time.
This is one of those areas where, like I mentioned, my son is a pilot. We go to the airport a lot. I take the
A Train. We take the regional buses sometimes. We go and pick people up or we could. And so how
would our RTD folks know whether I'm on around trip ride or I'm on a continuous trip?
The policy seems ripe for misuse. Potential discriminatory application to those who look or act a certain
way. And that causes me concern. It partly causes me concern because RTD services are taxpayer
funded public resources. So I want everybody to be treated the same way. But partly I come to these
conversations in the community, in the political sphere, from as a person of faith. And so it's really
important to me that we take care of each other, that we act with dignity and respect to everyone. And if
I'm not doing anything else to violate rules then sitting in a seat, I think does not require a penalty.
Also I appreciate Chief Fitzgerald being here today. And I heard him tell the community that crime is down
and that's great. Congratulations. So I don't think the proposal for six times as many RTD officers in the
next couple of years makes sense. I feel like it's too far too fast. And so I have some concerns about that.
And then finally when I think about these changes I really share a lot of your feelings to make and desires
to make the transit a welcoming environment. And so many of these are not feeling to me welcoming. I
don't know they'd be welcoming to anyone when we're talking about charging my phone or resting
sleeping on a bus or putting a bag on my seat that might feel like locking someone. I mean, I use the bus
to go back and forth to work. And so many of the other riders I see have a bag on the seat or they're
having a nap in the morning or in the evening. So I really worry about that being sort of fulfilling the idea
of a welcoming environment.
So I just feel like this current iteration of the 2023 code of conduct and suspension policy is just going too
far. And-KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Trudy, you're at 4 minutes now.
TRUDY GYGI: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: I thank you for your input, but we're going to have to ask somebody else to take the
floor for now.
TRUDY GYGI: Thank you, Chair. OK. Who's next in line?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Next we have Jamie Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Jamie, you've got the floor. You're silenced Jamie if you're talking.

JAIME LEWIS: Good evening, Directors. Thank you for having us tonight. I apologize to those who have
to hear me two nights in a row. We had a great meeting last night at the Finance meeting. My name is
Jamie Lewis and I am the Transit Advisor for the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition.
Safety is really paramount for our community, so I appreciate you guys putting these rules together.
However, as I did a cursory look, there are at least two bullet points that may interfere with the use for
people with disabilities. First is the no use of electrical outlets. As you know some of us use power chairs
and scooters to be mobile. And sometimes our batteries run low.
It's great to have those outlets available. Also our blind community are very dependent on their phones.
That is their lifeline. So having outlets on the platforms or on the vehicles, in which I don't think we do
have, are essential.
If we go to the airport we actually have trees of outlets. They encourage people to use electricity to make
sure that their phones and their other devices are loaded up. This is the new world. A lot of the passes
and stuff that we use is there on our phone. So it doesn't only provide help to the disability community, but
the general community as well.
The second one was the [INAUDIBLE] prohibition on riding with nowhere to go. I'll share a personal story.
When I moved to Denver in 2004 that's what I would do. I would get on the bus because I wanted to
explore Denver. I wanted to go as far as I could on transit to see where it went, to find out what
neighborhoods are around. So that's that one could be very tricky when somebody comes up and says,
where are you going? And I'm like, I have no idea. I'm just exploring.
So that's something to consider. So considering there's two obvious things that stick out concerning the
disability community, my suggestion is to run this through ACPD. That's the Advisory Committee for
People with Disabilities. I don't expect you guys to just to take my word on this. There could be other
things embedded in these rules that might be of a concern to the disability community as a whole. So
please don't depend on just my opinion. But I would recommend running this through ACPD before you
forward this to the full council. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Who's our next speaker?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Up next is Molly McKinley.
KATE WILLIAMS: Molly, you have the floor.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Good evening, Board and staff. Thanks for holding the space for public comment
this evening. My name is Molly McKinley and I'm the Policy Director for the Denver Streets Partnership,
which is a coalition of community organizations advocating for people-friendly streets. I'm here tonight
because we're deeply concerned about the proposed changes to the code of conduct.
In December of 2021 Denver Street's, partnership along with the Harm Reduction Action Center and the
Task Force to Re-imagine Policing sent a letter to CEO and General Manager Johnson and Mayor
Hancock, urging them to make decisions founded in compassion and dignity as they work to address
public safety issues at Denver Union Station. Since then, the approach we've seen around our public
transit system has put a disproportionate level of emphasis on law enforcement with investments in social
services as a side order.

Everyone in our community deserves to feel safe. That includes transit operators, residents, and visitors
of Denver, and our unhoused neighbors. RTD has a stated commitment to offering safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost effective transportation throughout the district to all constituents. This
must include people experiencing homelessness. Transit stops and stations our public spaces that are
critical to our community like libraries and parks where all should be welcome.
The proposed changes to the code of conduct do not reflect a welcoming environment for all, nor do the
troubling comments made recently by the RTD Chief of Police about locking down our transit system and
several of the proposed changes seem to clearly target unhoused individuals. I know that RTD is a public
transit agency and many of the issues before you are societal issues well outside of the scope of just
providing transit service. The current administration in Denver has failed to meaningfully address systemic
issues that contribute to homelessness and instability, which I recognize has put a burden on RTD to
address these issues that are showing up day to day on public transit.
Through Canada education, the Denver streets partnership has been elevating these issues, particularly
as they relate to public transit and will advocate that the new mayor and city council prioritize
compassionate solutions that address root causes of these issues instead of just pushing people from
one space to another like we've seen recently. For the sake of keeping the public in public transit, tonight
we urge you to do two things.
First, slow down the process to update the code of conduct. This proposal feels rushed, especially
considering that historically changes to this policy have included community and stakeholder
engagement. Second, please reject the proposal before you to allow changes to be made to the code of
conduct without Board approval. Transparency and public engagement are critical to ensuring that our
public transit system considers and meets the needs of the community. Thanks for your time this evening
and I welcome the opportunity for further discussion about these issues.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Who's our next speaker?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Up next we have Richard Bamber.
KATE WILLIAMS: Richard?
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi there. Good evening, everybody. Yeah, I've got three real quick ones tonight.
And let's go straight to the code of conduct rule 34. Remaining on the RTD system for more than one
continuous trip without exiting the paid area and re-entering by paying or validating a second fare or riding
the system indefinitely without exiting the system as indicated by the totality of the circumstances. What?
I mean, I had to read this three times and even I was primed to know what this rule's even trying to
achieve, OK? So start from being very difficult to understand. It's vague. OK. And requires discretion to
enforce. OK. Which leaves us open to a whole lot of discrimination issues.
OK. It's also hard to enforce. You know there are so many totalitarian circumstances. We recommend that
this one, in particular, is struck. I also echo previous comments about electrical outlets. We need to do
better with that.
On the subject of the police, you no doubt all seen the pretty nasty video of the assault that happened at
Federal/ Decatur The assault begins as the train door arrives. The train doors open and continues
throughout the dispatch process and ending as the train pulls away. So the question I have, and it's quite
worrying is the operator of that train must have been looking at the assault.

It's right by the first car. He must have been looking at his right hand wing mirror, OK, as the train doors
close. OK. During the assault the victim, at one point, the victim's head is up against the train. There was
one of the assailants returns to deliver a final kick. The victim flails around. Huge, huge risk here of the
victim, a limb or even the victim's entire body going under a train and sustaining a serious injury or death.
The optics here basically say that RTD left their passenger. Sorry, customer, for dead. So maybe there's
something more to this, but that's right now what we see. The train just drives off. So it would be good if
RTD could clarify anything else. Did they make an emergency call? Was a radio-- did police attend that
incident or did nothing happen?
Finally, on the service changes, quite excited this proposal to merge routes 34 and 38. These are two
routes I use quite frequently actually. And the thing is route 38 always did sort of take a meandering route
through downtown ending up at a seemingly random location at 21st and Chandler where there's very
little there. You know and always observed these ghost buses running through the town with all the
passengers already got off.
This route could be made so much more useful if it was rounded all the way down 15th and then across
to Union Station at 17th and Wewatta. So we asked the service chiefs division and Board people to
please consider making this change. It would make this combined routes a lot more useful, you know,
and build a system on connections. Thanks for listening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Do we have more speakers?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Yes. Up next is Rogelio Mares.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
ROGELIO MARES: Hello there. My name is Rogelio Mares and I'm a reporter for Fox 31. I don't know if
this is a question and answer portion of tonight's meeting, but I wanted to pose a question to Chief
Fitzgerald regarding the contracting of outside security officers.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Mares, excuse me, this is not question and answer. You have 3 minutes to say
what you want to say and there will be no response at this time.
ROGELIO MARES: I don't want to take time from anybody else. We've tried to reach out to RTD in the
past and got very few responses. So appreciate your time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely. We appreciate you being here. Can you tell me who is the next speaker?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Next we have Jennifer Dillon.
KATE WILLIAMS: Jennifer?
JENNIFER DILLON: Hi, my name is Jennifer Dillon. Thanks for this opportunity to address the Board. I
work with an organization in the East Colfax neighborhood called Swing by Street Supply Mutual Aid. I'm
also a frequent RTD rider on the 15 and 20 lines.
I'm very concerned about the changes to the code of conduct policy that target our unhoused neighbors.
For people who rely on public transit more than anyone else, unhoused people use transit for survival, not

just for convenience. It would be massively destabilizing to our unhoused neighbors, so many of whom
are disabled, to make it harder for them to ride the bus or easier to get suspended.
How do they make it to harm reduction centers or drug treatment centers, to doctors appointments, to
jobs? All of the things we say we want unhoused people to do, yet these proposed changes are going to
make it much harder for them to do that. There are many proposed rules that are troubling and
discriminatory, but one rule seems particularly cruel, not allowing people to ride the bus for more than one
continuous trip.
During the freeze that happened right before Christmas with historic low temperatures of 24 below zero,
we organized teams of volunteers out to bring survival gear and warm food and drinks and offer rides to
shelters and warming stations to our unhoused neighbors in Denver and Aurora. One of the key ways we
kept people warm and alive over the course of two nights with deathly temperatures was buying bus
tickets for them. And we also all know how the enforcement of this rule would be subjective, intrusive, and
discriminatory.
Transit and libraries are the last of the public commons. They're basically the only place people can exist
in public for free without being run off. Other public spaces have been privatized or over-policed at the
behest of private interests. RTD is a taxpayer-funded resource and we all have the right to use it. And that
includes people without homes, people who are disabled. It includes people with behavioral health issues
and people with substance-use issues.
The regressive voices you've heard today in support of these code of conduct changes are the same
people who consistently advocate for criminalizing poverty in our community, who advocate for policy that
trap people in the criminal legal system for engaging in activities to survive. I wish RTD would consider
how they are prioritizing people who don't want to ride public transit with people who do not look or
behave like them. And I wish folks complaining that they have to see poor, homeless, in crisis or addicted
people on public transit but offer an alternative for where those people should go in a freezing cold city
that criminalizes their existence. Please reconsider these changes. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Who's our next speaker?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: John Vieux.
KATE WILLIAMS: John? We are not hearing you.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Or maybe Jean?
KATE WILLIAMS: Jean? Can you spell the last name for me?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: V-I-E-U-X.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. OK, we'll wait a minute. Sometimes technology is not welcoming. So we'll give just
a minute here for John or Jean Vieux I would say also. Don't speak French well, but OK, I think we'll have
to come back to that. Who do you have next in the queue?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Next in line is Marty Steinberg.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Marty? OK. Marty Steinberg, are you here?

MARTY STEINBERG: I'm here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, you have three minutes.
MARTY STEINBERG: Now you can hear me, OK. I am co-chair of the LoDo District. Also a business
owner in lower downtown as well. And I think the rules of conduct that have been proposed are excellent.
I have already seen a huge change in my vision of what's going on in lower downtown.
I have a business that employs about 25 to 30 people. Many of them are RTD riders. And only recently
have they felt safe enough that they can get on it and come to work with on the RTD from various parts of
the city. I also have a lot of clients that come in to my spa and they too are starting to feel a lot safer
because of all these changes.
So as a LoDo district and as a business owner, I support these changes. And I feel that they will make a
difference as the city begins to come back and do business downtown again. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Do we want to try Jean or John, John again?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: They've lowered. We can try again.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not hearing anyone. OK. Thank you. I guess we'll move on.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: And there are no more hands in the queue.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. With no more participants looking to speak, we have some emailed comments.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Director Williams, there's your actually. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We will let one of them go now, whoever you have there.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Aubrey Wilde.
KATE WILLIAMS: Aubrey, you have the floor.
AUBREY WILDE: Hi, can you hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: We can hear you.
AUBREY WILDE: Great. Thank you. I've been having some technological issues lately. So I'm glad. Good
evening, everyone. My name is Aubrey Wilde and I'm the Advocacy Program Director at Colorado
Coalition for the Homeless. I was also a member of the committee that revised the RTD code of conduct
in 2020 and a frequent user of the 38 bus and personally love that it drops me off right at the door of my
workplace at 21st and Tampa.
And I want to thank you for the opportunity to express some of my concerns about the most recent
proposed revisions. There are four main provisions that cause us some heartburn at CCH. As we know,
transit services are a necessity for people experiencing homelessness to get to appointments, work, and
shelter. And I think today's weather is a great reminder to us that RTD properties may be someone's only
option for protecting themselves from extreme weather.

RTD services and locations are taxpayer funded resources for the public that should be easily accessible
by all members of our community, not just those that are housed or appear to be housed. We're
particularly troubled by provision number 34, which prohibits the continuous use of RTD systems. That's
been spoken to a lot, so I'll move on.
We're also concerned with the application and enforcement of proposed provision 39, which prohibits
occupying or remaining on RTD property or the totality of the circumstances indicates that an individual is
not using RTD services and so on. And provision 31, which prohibits lying on the floor, bench, platform,
stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance. This is one we took issue with in 2020 and we still find it to be
inappropriate. There are a number of reasons people might lie down for a bit, including needing some rest
after a long travel day, not feeling well, or waiting for the next leg of a trip.
These three provisions all seem to have been crafted specifically to target people experiencing
homelessness, whether they're using RTD services to get from point A to point B or not. Finally, provision
42, which prohibits unauthorized use of electrical or data outlets. That's been spoken to as well. RTD
properties may be someone's only opportunity to charge a phone and even access their ticket to ride. All
four provisions have more to do with user's perceived status or identity than the impact of those behaviors
themselves. And so I ask how does their enforcement relate to the safety and use of RTD by their
services by other passengers? And how will RTD officers ensure that they're not enforcing
disproportionately against individuals they believe to be unhoused because of their personal biases?
I also want to express my disappointment that the coalition and other partners were not consulted during
this revision process as we have been in the past. In 2020 as we wrapped up the revision our team made
a commitment to stakeholder processes for any future changes, but this latest revision has been
proposed and made public with no stakeholder engagement, no feedback from the public, and no
conversations with people who were likely to be directly impacted by the policy. These are critical steps
that were missed and I hope that you'll take all of our feedback very seriously tonight. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I believe we have one more speaker.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Yes. We possibly have to Joseph Elio.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thanks. Joseph, you have the floor.
JOSEPH ELIO: Oh, good. Thank you. I've only listened to the last half hour or so, but it seems like
virtually every speaker that has spoken against these regulations doesn't live there. I do. I live in Union
Station and I've walked to my work in LoDo. And I'm tired of drug addicts. I'm tired of drug addicts peeing
all over, pooping all over, scaring tourists, riding on trains, shooting up drugs. I've seen them shooting up
drugs on the trains on the way to DIA. And to say that you're discriminating against a certain class is
absurd.
Most of these people should try to live there and not just tell us what's going to happen there. The
electrical outlets? That used to be a den for drug addicts and drug dealers. So they would charge their
phones and one would come and three would come and five would come and then they bring their
sleeping bags and they would hang out and they would do their drugs. And wasn't-- it used to be pretty
commonplace. You'd see somebody with a piece of foil and a light underneath and they're breathing
something in.

Well, you tell me what they're doing. And you tell me what that attracts. I can't believe anybody would be
against these proposals. If it was in their backyard think they would say, oh no, this isn't the place. They
should be housed and they should go to a homeless shelter and there should be laws that are enforced.
But since it's in my neighborhood next to me and I walk through it every day, I really hope you guys do
this.
I interviewed a paralegal the other day to hire. She wouldn't come to work because she couldn't take RTD
because she's scared to death, because she's ridden before and she's had other people that ridden it
before and they've seen so many awful violent incidents and drug addicts. And they're just tired of it.
So lastly, you got some really good businesses in LoDo and they're struggling. And you allow this to
happen and they're going to continue to struggle. Tavernetta is one of the best restaurants in town. It's
always in the top 10. Well, if you don't start enforcing these laws and you don't get more officers and you
clean this place up, they're going to be gone and there's going to be a lot of for leases sign. A lot of drug
addicts, a lot of homeless, a lot of trash. These people might be happy, but they're going to be a lot of for
lease.
Union Station is the heart of this city. It should be protected. If these coalitions and these different groups
want to see all these resources for homeless, they call homeless and sometimes it's synonymous for drug
addicts, but if they want to see all these resources for homeless fine. But why put it in the centerpiece of
this entire city? I like what you're doing. All my associates that live in my building like what you're doing.
Don't let a minority persuade you not to keep doing what you're doing. And maybe we'll bring back more
tourist. Maybe we won't be ashamed of our city when they get off that train for the first time from DIA and
there's somebody smoking crack or trash all over.
Try seeing a bicycle staying in that community in that Union Station area for longer than 24 hours. It
doesn't happen because these homeless people steal everything in sight. And the graffiti is out of control.
And guess who does that? Not good citizens. Not people that live there. It's the people that want these
guys want to live there. And that's where the graffiti comes from. Good businesses are leaving and they're
going to continue to leave unless you guys get tough. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Do we have any more speakers in the queue?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Jean, John Vieux is back again.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We're going to try again.
JEAN VIEUX: OK. Can you hear me now?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yay.
JEAN VIEUX: Yay. OK. I moved from my iPhone to my laptop so much better. Hey, I'll keep it short. I
agree with everything that the gentleman just said previously. Things have gotten better in the last year
down here and it's because of increased enforcement and police presence. And god bless you and thank
you for that.
It is so discouraging to try to invest and build community when there is not support from the RTD because
that's the lifeline in and out of here. That's where our tourists come. That's where our kids come to visit
us. I have kids from Boston and New York City who think it's too dangerous for me to live down here.
They want me out and they live in tough places.

So you know, I've known and talked to people who have been assaulted. We've had people, my husband
and I, get in our faces and be very aggressive panhandlers. We've seen people urinating and defecating
right outside the door.
It's been out of control. It's starting to get back in control. And thank you so much for doing something
about this. It's for the public. And the public isn't just the homeless and the mentally ill and the addicted,
they need their help too, but it doesn't need to be the transit system. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Is that the end of our speakers?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: We have one more. Hazel Wing.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Hazel, you have the floor. Hazel, we are not hearing you if you are speaking.
Hazel, last call. OK. I think if that's all, Jillian, is that everybody?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: We should try Hazel one more time, I think she's unmuted.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hazel, you have the floor. If you'd like to speak. OK. I'm sorry, I think we're going to
move on.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: We have another. We have one more phone number. 720-300-3223 is on the
line.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please identify yourself with the name then you have three minutes to speak.
HAZEL WING: Hi, this is Hazel Wing. Can you hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: Now we can hear you. Yes.
HAZEL WING: OK. I just want to say that I agree with the last two speakers also because I work at Union
Station and I see the drug use, I see the urination, I see the defecation. When I walk through the station
and I ask people to please stop riding their bikes or riding their skateboards or can you please keep the
noise down they look at me with disregard. They don't do anything.
They just keep on doing what they're doing. And I think the code of conduct should be enforced because
we've had this going on much too long. There are times when I can't even get out of my door because
there's urination out there and I'm trapped inside my office. So if there was an incident outside I wouldn't
be able to help anyone. I can't get out my door. So please enforce the code of conduct and thank you so
much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Jillian, are we good?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: And that is the last one.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We appreciate everybody taking the time to come and share their opinion with us.
We also have some email comments that were sent in. And I have some names here. Here is a list of
emails. We have an email from Cathy Alderman with the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless regarding
the code of conduct. We have an email from Jamie Lewis from the Colorado Cross Disabilities Coalition
regarding the code of conduct. We have an email from Lance Loginbomb from the ATU Local 1001

regarding the code of conduct. And we have an email from Aniya Robinson from the ACLU regarding
changes to the suspension policy and the code of conduct.
These will be included in the full transcript for public transparency. And we thank you all for your
participation. With no other participants in the queue we're going to close the public comment period at
this time. We have-- the next category we have normally would be information from external entities, but I
believe we have some information from General Manager Johnson about the ongoing issue at the nine
mile elevator unless that falls to me. Gentleman or Johnson do you want to speak to this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you so kindly for the opportunity. In full transparency we
have been communicating with the Board regarding the nine mile elevator outage. The elevator outage
was due to unforeseen circumstances regarding infrastructure, specifically a pipe. We were apprised from
our Capital Programs Assistant General Manager about progress in repairing the equipment.
It will be about five weeks out for us to basically have an understanding to get parts and things of the like.
We are committed to providing a bus bridge to the area as there's no other way to access the platforms.
And more specifically, the light rail operators come in contact with those individuals that are in mobility
devices or utilizing other forms of conveyances. And we have signage and are making announcements.
And we are committed to getting this remedied as soon as possible.
Some of the circumstances are beyond RTDs control relative to the inclement weather and additional
weather that we've had today. So I just wanted to state that for the record. We're cognizant of that and are
working diligently. So thank you very much, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: And thank you General Manager Johnson. And I know that there was a statement that
we were going to read into the record, but I thought you had some updates. So I appreciate you coming
on the spot to speak. The next item on the agenda are recommended actions. We have one
recommended action on the agenda this evening. And that action is the 2023 code of conduct and service
suspension policy revisions. And we have a motion for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the
code of conduct and service suspension policy. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
KATE WILLIAMS: I heard Whitmore, let me write this down, and Rosenthal. Thank you, gentlemen. I
would like to ask Michael Ford, if he is here, our General Manager-- he's a General Manager, he's not.
He's the COO to speak on this. Mr. Ford, are you in the room?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I would just-- Michael Ford, COO. Just want to introduce Dr. Joel Chief Fitzgerald
to speak on the revision to the code of conduct policy that we just heard some comments about today. So
with that I would just ask Chief Fitzgerald to provide his commentary on the update or the revision to the
code of conduct.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: So with your permission then, committee Chair Williams, I'll speak to it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Have at it, Chief.

JOEL FITZGERALD: So thank you. As COO Michael Ford introduced me, I'm Dr. Joel Fitzgerald. I'm
Chief of Police and emergency management for RTD. And it's my intent to address these proposed
changes to the code of conduct and the service suspensions and correct some misnomers.
Our pursuant to the statute that allows RTD to function and to provide for the safety, convenience, and
comfort to all customers, or staff, that's RTD staff, propose these changes to the code of conduct to
enhance our officer's ability to enforce rules, specifically prohibiting conduct that may adversely affect the
use, operation, or occupancy of RTD vehicles, facilities, property, and moreover antisocial behaviors that
might detract from our overarching goal or strategy of maintaining a safe and welcoming transient
environment throughout the metro area.
And I have to stress throughout the metro area, not just in one section, but everywhere. So it's no secret
that RTD made changes prior to my hire to this code in the past and published a service suspension
policy that's been referenced that described the enforcement guidelines in 2016, 2020, and 2021. So it's
important for me to lead and preface my comments with this.
I'm a law enforcement subject matter expert, but I'm a human being. Code and policy changes are simply
tools that facilitate a larger, more comprehensive list of community-oriented policing, and in this case,
transit specific public safety strategies. They aren't laws. What's being proposed today is an attempt to
improve the transit environment and the intent to enhance the services we provide while respecting inputs
and relationships that we forged along the way.
Those with customers, people who comprise the majority of people we encounter every day. Those who
provide us feedback, like some of the feedback that you've heard every day. So it's important for me to
just restate the obvious and to correct some of the assumptions. I'm not from an ivory tower or a person
who arbitrarily makes decisions that are thoughtless and that have this massive impact upon the masses.
I'm a person who's relied on public transportation as a youth out of sheer necessity. So I think I can lend a
bit of demographic perspective. So here's a bit of additional history to ponder. As a former major City
Police Chief in cities the largest of which served over 930,000 residents, next level think is not lost on me
either. This isn't a war against the poor, underprivileged, or the historically disenfranchised in our
community. Some are going to make it seem like that. That's what I've heard.
But the fact is that this proposal is about customer and employee safety. And as a person who doesn't
come from privilege, I have been someone who, as I said historically fought for the same and historically
has seen discrepancies in that, I was only one of six police leaders in the country in 2015 who elected to
work with the National Initiative for Building Truth and Justice. That's a program that marked the
commitment to institutionalizing mandatory officer training and de-escalation, implicit bias, the use of
force reforms, and other policy changes.
That's when they weren't buzzwords. I say that because I'm a zealous advocate for investments in
community engagement and reconciliation. Contrary to what you've heard, these things are things that I
believe enhance procedural justice in our community. And these efforts in this instance are designed to
repair and strengthen police community relationships by addressing deeply historical routes of distrust in
the police among people of color and other marginalized communities. We're actually trying to connect
people with services.
I anticipate that some who oppose these changes may need to hear this as reinforcement. I actually
inspect what I expect out of my folks. So preying on the fear that I represent big brother, asking for some

unilateral or non-inclusive changes in a vacuum may not be the best tactic. Perhaps I'm sharing too
much. I guess I should say this. I was raised in a family with someone who's experienced an unhoused
situation. Mental health issues and drug issues.
My dad was wheelchair bound. So I can only wonder what it's like to have the privilege to assume that no
one understands these situations and that opposing these changes from some that I've heard can
possibly grasp the severity of folks facing these unfortunate circumstances and situations. I certainly,
certainly understand. And I certainly have been in tune with them from the time I was raised until current.
So now that your armed with a little bit of knowledge about me, this request for change is really grounded
in very similar work. In fact, the changes that are being proposed today are supported by input from other
national subject matter experts who have continuously and who do continuously grapple with the delicate
balance between protecting people from anti-social behavior issues and providing a community
transportation service.
So in 2021 RTD at the request of CEO and General Manager Johnson asked for the American Public
Transportation Association members to conduct a peer review of the state of RTD as it relates to public
safety. And they published their report in 2022. Many of the people that have spoken tonight have access
to that and have read it.
The APTA Team for those who haven't, cited numerous industry best practices that RTD could use to
improve service delivery today. Some of them are short term, others were more long term. But
nonetheless, they were all very sensible strategies that considered the seismic changes in the world since
2020.
Subject matter experts I have to say actually do their homework sometimes. The holistic feedback that
they integrated into their findings sort of just summed up this. That nobody should be subjected to the fear
or anti-social or illegal behaviors that some that have spoke tonight described. And that our officers need
the ability, especially as we grow, to do so and have the backing of not only a great policy, but the law.
We have the law to fall back on, but a strong policy is something else that we need to make this system
better. So don't hold it against us that we've made some positive changes. That you're going to hear that
crime's been down. That doesn't mean anything to the operators out there who are victims. To the person
that was described earlier that was the victim on our system. Try to tell them that the improvements that
we've made and these declines matter.
We can't avoid the topic that in some areas we've made great strides and others we haven't. And that's
why SMEs, actual people that know this industry and know law enforcement and know social services are
recommending professionalizing and expanding the department while strengthening some of the
language of our policies. So as COVID continues to recede, we're eager to require our former customers.
And to do so I propose that we surprise our customers with an environment on each platform, on each
park and ride, or implement a transportation that's welcoming and consistent with what many of you have
already stated and seen at Denver Union Station, above ground and below ground.
The changes proposed to the Board they only strengthen and clarify existing language with the goal to
that end. It's not an attempt to sanitize the transit environment. It's definitely not changing the law.
Because after all, I said this to CEO Johnson, characters are a universal part of a diverse community in
their transit experience. I was raised seeing people in the transit environment playing music and
instruments in the transit system.

But what those people weren't doing at that time were assaulting others. And that's what we're legislating
against, those folks that would cause others harm in our system and in that environment. So for those
who meet this with some skepticism, I guess this language, the language changes that we're proposing
intentionally avoid over criminalizing people who are statistically over-represented in the justice system.
These changes are thoughtful, helpful. You've heard me say, this firm but fair. But they're also
diversionary in nature, falling well short of what's been said today about placing the wrong people into the
justice system and sort of the rote manner we've seen for decades. Changing this code just makes it, in
my opinion, a profound statement about what the behavioral expectations are for those who use RTD and
how serious we as members of staff in the police department take our duty to protect our customers and
our employees.
Voting for this just empowers our folks to use discretion. Heard people mention that, but our folks use
discretion especially when dealing with the people that we deal with every day. Chronic offenders. And
those are who certain parts of this are aimed toward. It's not the guy that wants to ride and see the
system, right? We're not asking the guy that wants to ride and see the system to exit the system and
you're not allowed to do that.
We're asking the people that aren't. The chronic offenders who pervert this benefit that's provided by
RTD. We're asking to be able to intercede because these are people that are actually causing problems.
And when our people encounter folks, they do so because they are causing a problem. So in accordance
with the APTA peer review recommendations that I spoke about, we're committed to growth, processing
more applications than in the past.
So to some people chagrin we are hiring. And we're hiring police officers. So Board members, I say this
tongue in cheek, you know, tell your constituents to get their applications in and be part of a positive
change process because we have concurrent plans that meet other recommendations in the APTA
report. And we're moving in that direction.
We want to increase the amount of mental health clinicians and homeless outreach coordinators that we
have. Not only in downtown in Denver Union Station but across the entire metro region in our transit
environment. We're not just doing it in a myopic way, we're doing it in a holistic manner. So I'd be I guess
remiss not to mention that as Mr. Saldate and others spoke about earlier today that it began in Denver.
That's no secret. Where RTD and Denver PD criminal justice public health. And yes, even our social
service providers formed a steering committee. I've done my research. They looked at mitigating the
impacts of unwanted behaviors affecting the US and the surrounding area. And the committee actually
began by implementing this holistic and compassionate strategy to reduce the illegal drug sales that you
saw or even the antisocial behaviors of those that don't use transit services. The people that aren't
patronizing businesses that work or live in the areas that are impacted.
So my seven months I have to say we've made a difference. You've heard that tonight. You've heard that
we've improved circumstances. Some of you have even walked through the terminal with me and made
note of some of the changes you've seen. Keep the momentum going. If you walk through the upper
layers of Union Station or down in the lower areas of the bus terminal and you say that there's not a
change, I'd seriously questioning the moves.
I have to say that this is a result of connecting not only our officers with people and making sure they use
their discretion appropriately, but also connecting people in crisis with resources. Our staff from RTD and

our police department, the Denver Police Department, and other departments we work with and the
Board have to be vigilant. And in order to keep those gains, to keep us moving in the right direction, and
to replicate that success throughout the region, we have to be aggressive and we have to look at it very
realistically.
Change takes time. It takes champions. So members of the Board, I guess you can say, I'm the champion
at this point. I'm saying you have the ability to help us to capitalize upon some of this positive momentum
tonight and to provide our officers the tools, our officers and partners I should say, the tools to promote
the sustainable change that we see, just one area at a time really. And the changes in line with a gradual
implementation of crime prevention through environmental design that was mentioned.
In short that's, yes, we're looking at paid fare areas. It's used throughout the country and other-- you
know, some might site one or two systems that don't use paid fare areas. I'd say it was a build fault in us
not having paid fare areas throughout the system. It's a security risk.
And RTD facilities are being looked at and being-- just starting with Denver and Union Station, I have to
say, because this hasn't been a system wide change, we're looking at creating a paid fare area. That's
above Board. That has been a recommendation made by subject matter experts and it is something that
we're doing.
The stats show that us engaging people differently in a positive manner has made a difference. And I'll
give you stats later in the other report. But what's absolutely important to glean I think from what I'm
saying into my 10 minutes, and I'm sure I'll go over a little so bear with me, from this proposal and this
change to the code of conduct is that a suspension policy or a code of conduct violation can either make
things unlawful or lawful. Legal or not legal.
A person decides whether they want to act lawfully, act legally, or not. And sometimes it's out of their
control. And we have the ability to steer people toward the services they need to help them with that. But
this is not a law change. It's just tantamount to reinforcing the RTD brand.
And just last night, you know, RTD worked to reduce fares and bring services to more customers across
the area and throughout the entirety of all of our demographics. So some of what you heard tonight is,
well, certain demographics are going to be adversely affected by this. When, in fact, what you did was
open up and endorse the fact that we want more people riding the system.
So this is really a question of do you want the system to be safe that you just opened up to everyone? I
think so. I think that comes hand in hand with opening up and saying we want to reduce fares to make it
more accessible. We want the same thing.
RTD should be the preference for mobility, not a last resort for those who need it. And then again, last
night you spoke of the disadvantaged communities that rely upon the services. So put yourself in their
place. I've said this to many of you on the Board. Would you want your child or your elder riding next to
persons exhibiting some of the behaviors that you've seen or that have been cited tonight, that chronic
offenders, and I repeat, chronic offenders, display every day.
People mentioned urination, defecation. They've mentioned the use of fentanyl next to people on trains
and on buses. That's unacceptable. I think we all agree with that. So our front line employees and our
customers deserve better. They encounter the folks that do this every day. They know who the
problematic folks are. So to assume that they don't have the discretion or can't employ the faculties that

they've been given to discern when someone is acting out as opposed to someone that's in critical need
is really a slap in the face to the folks that work here.
And listen, ask your customers. Ask the people that don't have an agenda to push about the reality of
many of the chronic offenders they come into contact with because, believe me, those folks know how to
pervert and exploit loopholes to the current policies and procedures better than our police officers know
how to apply it. So I've heard from them and I've listened. RTDs not alone. I've got to tell you that across
the country places just like MARTA, for example, I just got an article about MARTA yesterday. And they
grapple with the same kind of environmental situations that we deal with.
But yet you know they've seen declines by double digits in crime. And they've changed their code of
conduct language to improve customer safety. And you know, those two things ran hand in hand. So at
least we should be as nimble and as dynamic as other transportation industry peers that have been
successful in reducing crime. Over the past quarter century, people have actually changed things for the
better. We're working in that direction, moving in that direction. And again, you'll hear me say it, we need
to make it sustainable.
So you know, another thing I hear is, well, you know, people should be allowed to stay in places. And
that's been said tonight. Well, I use the airport as an example. We've submitted to TSA baggage
screenings, baggage searches, and different standards while being able to stay on an airplane. What
happens is that the people in the airplane walk through it to make sure that there's no security concerns.
The same thing is done on a bus and on rail. Our folks should be walking through there making sure
there's no security concerns. And if they leave to implement a transportation, they actually should not
have somebody that's still on that implemented transportation because they don't know what they've been
doing when they leave at the end of a run.
So to make that really simple, we're just asking folks-- we're not saying that you can't ride and take it
beyond the end, we're asking for people to exit and if they have paid fare and if they're displaying paid
they get back on the system and use it again. It's a safety concern. It's sensible.
So it's an expectation in 21st century policing that law enforcement provides help for people in less
traditional spaces for those who need it. And in fact, we do it with a lot of sensitivity. So I don't know
where the rhetoric has emerged that there's this aberrant misuse of discretion across our system. If
anything, there's been a call from people that use this system for us to be more attentive to the needs of
the customer. So with the same spirit-KATE WILLIAMS: Chief, we're going to have questions and discussions. So I'm going to kind of ask you
to come to a summary finish so that some of the Directors who are listening and taking in what you're
putting out can ask you some direct questions, if you're OK with that.
JOEL FITZGERALD: No worries. I think some key takeaways is that our other police agencies that
monitor public transit that have posed these same questions to their boards have made these changes
and have seen significant positives. Opposing a safer system, simply put, it's troubling. It's the stance
that's misaligned with the greatest good for the greatest number of people. Or even defending people's
personal freedoms. So employees, customers, people who actually use our transit services are there on
the ground. Simply want some enforcement.
And officers want to oblige them. Our employees want to oblige them. And we're trying to help. You asked
me to sum things up. I guess the best way to sum it up is in the 10 minutes I've been allotted some

people are fortunate enough to have the benefit of transit options. Others don't have the benefit of transit
options or aren't necessarily people who make it the first choice.
You choose it if you have it and you place yourself in the position of somebody who has no mobility
options in a marginalized community who have no way of getting to school or work outside of being either
loyal or new transit customers. And we've lowered fares. And we owe it to people to live up to our goal of
being a safe, secure, and welcoming transit environment. The code and policy changes that we propose
today only add to that commitment that you've established. And we've worked with Operations
Committee, with our HEU and other groups to draw up I think a policy that's representative of our
employees and of our customers. So I'll close with that.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was a nice summation there. Mr. Ford, do you have anything else you want to
add to this before we open it up to the members of the Board?
MICHAEL FORD: No, Madam Chair, I do not. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. At this time I would ask Directors who have questions or wish to speak to raise
their virtual hands and I will call on you in turn. Again, as I said, I'm doing this from an iPad so I'm going to
ask the Board Office if I miss somebody to please jump in and let me know.
For Directors or staff who are calling into the meeting, if you want to speak, press star 9. Do we have any
hands? OK. I see Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Madam General Manager, CEO, and
thank you Dr. Fitzgerald for your work on these proposed policy changes. And this is really one of in my
two years being on the Board one of the more difficult issues that I think we are facing. Because as was
mentioned, this is something the entire country has been facing and certainly our city of Denver and all
the different cities in the metro area as well.
So I have certainly heard all the folks who spoke to our committee in the very beginning so. But I think
also if I could bring in one of the voices that I hear all the time, somebody in the community who calls me,
who texts me, and I won't say her name but her name I'll just say is JJ. She works at King Soopers and
she has a disability. And she calls me all the time and says, you know, I can't take it any more.
I can't take the drugs, the smell, the sight. And do something. She's pleading with me. And then I can't
always take her call because I have my other job. And so I just want certainly-- I don't think she's listening
tonight, but I want to bring in her voice that as someone who I hear from regularly. So that's just my
preface and thanks for that mini preface, Madam Chair.
So I do have a question for Dr. Fitzgerald, Chief Fitzgerald. So you mentioned that MARTA and
potentially other transit agencies have adopted a policy change or change their code of conduct. So when
you mentioned that, so did you look at their terminology? And some of the concerns that were brought up
by some of the testimonials tonight were a little bit about some of the words, some of the terms. Did you
use some of those similar terms from other agencies or is this something that you crafted on your own?
JOEL FITZGERALD: This wasn't done in a vacuum. The terminology was changed from existing
terminology within some of the documentation, but others work through legal and work through the
contributors that I mentioned that sit on the various committees. And they were echoing the sentiments of
some things that police on the ground from both Denver and our departments that we actually have
contracts with have echoed as pinch points for them being able to enforce certain things. So we know that

some of the changes align with some of the verbiage that other places use. However, it is really-- we
have to make it specific to our particular place and our particular problems.
I use that as a reference so that you could understand that changes are part of what this industry sees
and especially from the law enforcement end. And you know what works for one place may not
necessarily work for others, but when we're seeing double digit decreases in overall crime. And MARTA,
in particular, they saw double digit decreases in operator assaults. I think that's significant.
So are things perfect? I don't think they're ever going to be perfect. But I think it's representative of what
our employees and what the customers have conveyed to us.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chief.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Rosenthal, does that answer your question or do you have more?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I have just a couple quick ones. Well, one is quick and one maybe a little bit longer.
But in terms of there was a question about whether outlets can be used or not used. Now as far as I
know, now I don't take the Flatiron Flyer, I understand it's a different type of bus, and so I don't know if
there are outlets on that bus. But my understanding on the whole system is when I'm on the bus or train
really the only outlets that I still see since they're no longer at the bus terminal, and my understanding is
those are now gone, is that right?
JOEL FITZGERALD: I can't speak specifically to Flatiron Flyer.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK.
JOEL FITZGERALD: But I tell you this, the assertion or that a person needing to seriously charge their
phone would be something we'd frown upon if there's not rampant misuse is a misnomer. If a person
needed to charge their wheelchair because they're stuck and have to plug it in downtown union and
downstairs in the bus terminal in Union Station, I would tell you that a police officer has the discretion to
allow that person to do that.
That's called discretion. We actually think an employee discretion to make decisions about things this is
targeting the chronic offender. Again, the chronic offender is the important portion to this conversation
that we're having. And when we write policy like this, we have to give ourselves the latitude to apply it
towards those chronic offenders. And again, have a little more confidence. And this isn't directed at you,
sir, Director Rosenthal, but it is in general that we're making decisions that are consistent with the best
interest of people. And that's not necessarily been what-- that's not what I've heard, but that's what I'd like
to convey.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: I do see you. I do see you, General Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Always going to call on you first. Go ahead.

DEBRA JOHNSON: No, thank you so much. And I just wanted to add something to the conversation in
reference to Director Rosenthal's question about the outlets. Just to provide context, the reason why it
came full circle with the outlet there was a time last year whereby we couldn't even have our facility staff
power wash the floors and things of the like because they couldn't get to the outlets because people were
hovered around doing unwelcomed activities.
So I just wanted to qualify that about the outlet. And Mr. Stopplecamp because basically the outlets were
being damaged. And so we couldn't clean the facilities. And then more specifically as it relates to MARTA,
the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, I do want to qualify that MARTA was part of the peer
review as well as many others of which we received information. And these were best practices. So it was
MARTA, the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit
District, and the Dallas Area Rapid Transit District in conjunction with Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority.
And you may recall that one of the subject matter experts whom engaged with the various Board
members, former Chief Wanda Dunham, served on that peer review and she was the Chief of Police for
MARTA. So I just wanted to provide that context relative to the information. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. I also want to note before we go back to this discussion that the
APTA peer review that we received, if it's not part of the minutes prior to this meeting we can certainly
attach it afterwards. And it is there for the public consumption. Director Rosenthal, if you have one more
brief another one because I'd kind of like to let someone-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right. I just want to confirm that our legal department, Ms. Snyder, has also
reviewed all these proposed policy changes and that they are conforming with our charter and rules and
everything like that.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I don't want to answer for Melanie.
MELANIE SYNDER: I'm on camera. Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Please ma'am.
MELANIE SYNDER: Yes. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Yes, Director Rosenthal, the legal
team did review this and the code of conduct revisions and suspension policy revisions do comport with
the law.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. That is all I have. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you everyone.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you for your question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, everybody. OK. I'm going to try and go what I see-- I believe that I saw
Director Bouquet next and Director Ruscha after that and Director Harwick after that. Everybody OK with
that? OK. Thank you. Go ahead, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you very much, Chief. And thank you, staff, for the
great words to get us started off. I guess I have a question and a comment. My first question would
ultimately be if this recommended action would be to be postponed or if this recommended action would
fail tonight, how would this ultimately impact the operations and/or improvement of RTD?

JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, I first urge you not to postpone it. We would be now putting off getting a
response from our employees, saying that change needs to be made. And now pursuant to let's say
postponing this, you're now saying to employees that in the interim you may be assaulted by someone
who's a chronic offender who we have no recourse but to allow to use the system who otherwise may
have been suspended had we exercised our right to vote this forward now.
That may seem like-- it may seem far fetched to most, but it's not to the employee that's dealing with
people on the ground level. We don't have every police officer on every train or every implement of
transportation every day. And there are operators out there who need some suffrage. And part of that is
making sure that the folks that, again, that are chronic and that we're dealing with all the time know that
from the Board aspect that they support that we need to toughen up. And again, I just ask you not to and
I'd ask you to keep the momentum positive.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And then my comment, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. So I'll try to make it brief since I a lot of people want to speak. But my
comment ultimately would be the actual policy itself versus the enforcement of said policy. If we look at
our current code of conduct, I'm looking at it right now, topics that have been brought up assault on
vehicles, smoking on our vehicles, urination, any of these, and feel free to correct me if I'm wrong, this
already looks like this is part of our code of conduct.
So why, I might disagree with you Chief ultimately, would be we've had enough push back from
community members. There's enough organizations that are saying, hey, let's slow down the process
because we ultimately want a word and we want to say in where we go forward.
So that's where I would just kind of push back ultimately on is it's already putting the cart before the horse
when we introduce the policy that's obviously problematic to members of our community when we
potentially can't enforce said policy. That would be my main critique ultimately.
There's a fair amount of people who do want to be part of these changes and want their voices heard so
it's betterment for all of our community members and all our voices. So my opinion ultimately is, and I
would love to hear from further Board members, but I believe the most appropriate method would be
actually postponing this recommended action, hearing from other community members who are
passionate about said topic. Listening to how we can improve this code of conduct and ultimately going
forward with enforcing it.
That's what I care about. Because in our current code of conduct, again, feel free to correct me if I'm
wrong, a lot of the things that have been brought up are already in our code of conduct. I just need to
know tonight if we pass this, how is this going to make a change where we actually see a safer RTD?
Where we see safer facilities? Where we actually see unwanted activity not happening?
As the enforcement of said policy is the biggest thing in my opinion. So as a member of this committee, I
actually think it would be more appropriate for us to postpone recommended action, hear from the
community members who are opposing it. So that are my comments. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: If I'm allowed to respond to that I would-- and just I jotted down a few notes and one
of the notes was maybe how many people spoke. So on this pressing policy issue that is encompassing

of the 3.08 million people in the Denver metro area that have access to the transit system we had maybe
12 speakers on it.
And it's not for lack of advertising. It's not for lack of news coverage. And I would tell you that waiting and
involving more people is never-- I'm never going to say it's a bad idea insofar as to have conversation
about things. But we gave people a chance this evening. And we're giving people a chance this evening
to convey their feelings on this subject.
Out of the 3.08 million people in the Denver metro area 10 people, 12 people spoke on it tonight. If we got
40 more people or 50 more people in the next five or six meetings that it may take to edify this policy and
we have six or seven or eight or 10 more driver assaults, is it worth it? That ends my comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chief. Thank you, Director Bouquet. I think Director Ruscha, your next.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have three questions, it might be two. If I may ask two
and let the other Board members, and if it wasn't answered if I could come back? And my question is for
Dr. Chief Fitzgerald. Hello, it's nice to meet you officially, sir. Thank you for coming tonight and
entertaining these questions.
You stated earlier that these changes are diversionary in nature. And those were your words. And I
wanted to give you an opportunity to explain how the proposed changes are diversionary. And then my
second question is actually just for anyone who can answer. The APTA to peer review has been
referenced several times. I have it in front of me. And I have the old Board documents and the memo to
the Board that also summarized the APTA to peer review.
While I do see references to a paid fare zone for Denver Union Station, I don't see any recommended
changes to the code of conduct. And I was wondering if you could, and maybe there were documents that
were not shared with the Board or the public, but if there is someone in staff who can specifically point to
the APTA to peer review that what in the review made these suggested changes that you're proposing
this evening. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well first, diversion in and of itself is instead of arresting someone for criminal
trespass allowing them to walk out and/or giving them a suspension. So that in and of itself is both
discretion and diversion.
Instead of putting someone in the criminal justice system with charges, what we're doing is diverting those
charges and saying, you're no longer able to use this system, this privilege, for three months, six months,
or however long this category applies. It's worth mentioning we're not putting people in these situations
where their behavior begets an intervention by a police officer. People are choosing, or maybe not so
much choosing to do these things because some people can't control that.
The bottom line is that, again, let's understand that the first thing that comes is us understanding that an
officer has discretion. And right now, officers have discretion. But the threat of a suspension at its current
level is not such that people that are chronic offenders within the system respect the fact that they are no
longer allowed in the system. And if they are found in violation after receiving these numerous requests to
leave or numerous requests not to conduct themselves in that manner in the system, they're coming back
over and over and over again. And that's why people in the community are frustrated in seeing some of
the things they see over and over again.

They're saying to us, what are we doing about it? Our drivers, our operators, excuse me, are saying the
same thing. And I can't blame them when we don't have the backing. And I'm not saying this for Board
consumption, I'm saying the backing of a stronger policy that will keep people away from the system that
come every day that have no respect for the current policies or procedures. Things that need to be
changed and that could be changed overnight. So that's the difference between discretion and the
diversionary aspect of things.
You point to or you ask about APTA peer review data. And I think Debra may be able to speak to this
better, but I can tell you that in speaking with other police chiefs that are part or that were part of the
APTA peer review. And I mentioned the APTA peer review feedback has been this, it is that. It is from
those conversations.
So although I came on I wasn't a transit police chief. I have been traditionally a police chief in other
jurisdictions over the city. So I've had conversations with transit police chiefs, other SMEs in law
enforcement but specializing in transit who have said some of these changes are things that can work. So
when APTA is referred in that way in my estimation, that's what I'm referring to. Debra or others may be
able to shed more light on that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chief. We'll ask Miss Johnson to speak for just a moment, Director Ruscha,
if you're OK with that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. Sure.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'll be concise recognizing the volume of
questions in which we have. So in light of the APTA peer review, Director Ruscha, that was
recommendations that they put forward. Thereafter we took those recommendations and that was
presented in a public session to the Board of Directors recognizing that we use that as a springboard.
You heard from Ms. Odante with the city and county of Denver.
I had reached out to the mayor's Administration and talked about working in tandem. Hence, resulted in a
crime prevention through environmental design whereby we had Denver PD do a walk through in
conjunction with our capital program staff to ascertain how we could make this a more welcoming
environment. With that as a backdrop, that information was shared with the Board and the Board adopted
the resolution as it related to a welcoming transit environment.
I'm more than happy to provide more detailed information because I don't have it at my fingertips at the
time. But we'll provide more information because I am aware that there has been some questions relative
to that. And we'll be more than willing to provide that to the entire Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Debra. Joyann, sorry, Director Rushca.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It's OK. Madam Chair, I just had-- I just wanted a quick follow up here. I had asked
about the changes that were diversionary in nature and Dr. Chief Fitzgerald, you referenced the current
proposal, the amendment to the code of conduct. But currently you do have discretion, as you've
referenced. And if you do suspend somebody and they come back, that is trespassing. Additionally, if
they're asked to leave and they stay, that is also trespassing.
And so I certainly would like us to create a safer transit environment, a more welcoming transit
environment for everybody. But I personally am just not seeing where these changes are going to help
you immediately or even to address some of the concerns that community members brought at the

beginning of public comment. That being said, I appreciate your time and your perspective and your
vulnerability that you shared earlier. And I will go ahead and just see the floor to my fellow Directors who
have questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Ruscha. OK. I am going to try and follow as quickly as I can see. I
believe that Director Harwick was next.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I just have a few questions. So I'm curious, and they sort of
all circle around this. With the increase in the police force that we are looking to bring on I'd like to know,
is there going to be an also a simultaneous increase in our outreach coordinators? I recognize that a lot of
the problems that are going on are-- they are whole metro area wide and they're bleeding into our
experience. But I know that we only have one person that fits that, so I'm just curious if there are any
more planning to be hired.
My second question is, if someone is suspended, how do we know if someone is suspended and how are
we enforcing that? And then my last question is, there are 47 items on this code of conduct. I've looked at
other code of conduct throughout the country. A lot of them the verbiage is a lot more clear, it's more
succinct, and there are fewer of them. And I just wonder if 47, I don't know how anyone is going to know
all 47 of them. And I don't know, you know, I let alone a person-- like I get that there's a whole bunch that
are very clear like drug use, urinating, all of that.
But some of the more I can't fathom somebody plugging in who's just a normal person or a person in a
wheelchair that's trying to charge their chair, I can't fathom them getting in trouble for that. So again, just
circling back, how do we know if someone's suspended? And are we hiring more outreach coordinators?
And now I'm done with my questions.
JOEL FITZGERALD: The answer to your first question is, yes, I spoke to hiring outreach coordinators
throughout the system. We have-- the system split into five distinct areas. Each area we intend to have
outreach coordinators available in. So yes, that's part of our plan. That's part of the things that I've asked
for within budget.
Your other question is, how do we document things? Well, we have an RMS, a records management
system, that needs to be improved by the way. But with that system, nonetheless, we have the ability to
document and to track the people who've been given warnings, suspensions, who we've dealt with on
numerous occasions.
So again, I have to reinforce, most of the people we're speaking about here are folks that are repeat
offenders that are chronically the folks that our operators and our officers come across. So they know
who it is that they need to exempt from the system.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Are you good, Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: I am. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'm going to revise the list of who I-- I am having a hard time keeping up
with all the hands raised. So this is what's going to happen. It's going to be Director Broom and then
Director Sloan and then Director Whitmore and then Director Tisdale and then Director Catlin. So with
that, Director Broom, you have the floor.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I've been requested to postpone this by several
other Board members. And typically I don't go along with just postponing things because it's just a
parliamentary maneuver while somebody works to get more votes for their particular side or issue.
But in this case due to COVID everything's different. I haven't had a town meeting or a district meeting for
several years. And typically when something like this would come along I would have staff come to these
meetings, explain what the district was doing, and get input from the public that comes to those meetings
before I would take a position on something at a Board meeting.
Well because of COVID, we just don't have those in-person meetings anymore. And so since, I guess, the
COVID emergency is now over and in fact, the Board is going to hold its first in-person Board meeting in
March, I think that's still the plan, and so I'd like to restart up the district meetings for District Directors and
start to get some of this additional input on things. But I'm kind of really caught between a rock and a hard
place on this particular issue because I can see with my own eyes what's going on and something needs
to be done. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. I did not hear a question there so I think we'll go on to
Director Sloan. And I have added Director Guissinger to the list everybody. So I do recognize her as
being after Director Catlin. Director Sloan, you're up.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And I, like Director Broom, have mostly comments.
However, maybe embedded in what I'm saying is a misunderstanding. And if so, I'd like to hear from Chief
Fitzgerald and Michael Ford and Debra about where I've gone wrong.
You know, first, I'd like to commend staff, and particularly Chief Fitzgerald for working in the interests of
maintenance of safe transportation system, protection of employees, and the public and preservation of,
in fact, the enjoyment of life. I think that's extraordinary.
And I believe Chief Fitzgerald, I've almost become a groupie. I listened to his entire 30 minute
presentation on Channel 9. And I couldn't have been more proud of having Chief Fitzgerald be the
spokesperson for RTD on maintaining the safety of our system. His good intentions just shown through in
his demeanor and his words. It was most impressive.
And I also agree that this is an extremely important issue facing RTD. And the success of RTD is very
interconnected with the perception of public safety. So I understand the impetus for trying to get this code
of conduct and suspension policy out. However, I believe we do need to get it right.
And although we didn't have a million stakeholders weighing in tonight, and that I'm kind of glad, we did
have several people call in and they had good thoughts. Things that I hadn't considered before. And they
represent another group of people. And in no way are my comments, or I think 99% of the public
comments, trying to interfere with respect for Chief Fitzgerald and by extension the RTD police force.
In no way can we sit here at a Zoom Board meeting and replace the discretion of the boots on the ground
people with our thoughts. However, I think there is a need for broader community input and public
engagement on this. The earlier code of conduct was primarily focused on Denver. And now we have all
the other jurisdictions involved as well.
And I think this is a tool, but we want it to be a really good tool. So I'm with Director Broom and Director
Bouquet in saying this needs further work. So you know, I'm concerned about the substance of things that
people have pointed out tonight and also the procedure that has been followed. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. I did not hear that you were looking specifically for an
answer on anything right now. If you're OK then I will move on to the other speakers. Thank you, ma'am.
Director Whitmore. Before you pass out from lack of food, could you speak to us?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. I'm two time zones away. It's been a long travel day getting out of
Denver. I don't have a question. OK. Well, preface it with just a couple of statements. You know, when I
hear from my suburban constituents regarding issues of this nature, it's those that have stopped taking
the bus or lately they have begun to come to the Union Station Bus Depot because of what we did as a
result of actions we took and the first code of conduct that I voted on.
But the concern was safety, feeling threatened, driving their cars because they felt safer, adding to
pollution, not using our system as we had a broken system at Civic Center and Union. And because of
the actions that were taken several years ago things have improved, but there still is a lot of need for
improvement.
I am not in favor of postponing this item tonight. And here's why. We work really hard on the first version.
These are amendments, first of all. Second of all, this is a discretionary type document as Chief Fitzgerald
so aptly stated. We do have to give our officers and our counselors policies that they can utilize to help
with chronic problems that we all witness and that our constituents deal with daily.
Now, I want to give an anecdotal story about Chief Fitzgerald. Thanksgiving weekend I received a call
from a constituent who was a business owner that backs to the A line. He's an electrical contractor. And
for several years break in after break in after breaking the fence breached multiple times. And on
Thanksgiving weekend he had a major break in, $40,000 worth of materials stolen.
And he had it up to his chin with what to do. I called Debra. She hooked me up with the Chief, who I had
not met in person yet. And I'm giving this as an example of the type of discretion and the type of
leadership that he will be giving to our police department and the public safety folks in general. He
jumped on that issue in a way that I've never seen before.
Multiple calls to the business owner. Multiple visits to the site making sure that we had security because
the fence was breached and we could not get it fixed over the holiday weekend. Counseling with the other
businesses next door that we're having the same issues. Reaching out to Denver PD to see what more
could be done to stop this problem.
He talked for a long time tonight about his passion. And I can tell you that it's not talk, folks. We have a
new Sheriff in town, albeit a new Chief. And he operates differently. And he's a fine leader. Let's give him
the tools that him and his staff needs. We can always tweak, we can always amend this.
The first one that I worked on is only a year or two old and it has been a good tool. We need to enhance
this tool and give those tools to the Chief and his staff. So with that I'll go to mute and I appreciate the
time, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. We appreciate you as well. I see Director Tisdale, his
hand is up next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to address this
important matter. The first point I would like to make is in response to some of the comments that were
made relative to the need for RTD to provide shelter to people. RTD has no obligation to provide shelter.
In fact, under the law we are only authorized to provide transportation services.

I refer to the RTD Enabling Act found at Colorado Revised Statute section 32-9-103(7) and 32-9-107. To
go beyond that is to go beyond our legislative authority. The second point is I have said for many years
now as we have been discussing the situation at Denver Union Station, we are all very proud of the fact
that RTD owns Denver Union Station. And RTD and the city and County of Denver bragged that Denver
Union Station is Denver's living room. We never promised that it would be Denver's bedroom. And we
must adhere to that.
The third point I'd like to make is that process is a very important part of this. And some of the comments
that the Directors have made and that others have made reflect on the process. Our process was defined
and legislated by the Board as of April 2020. We made it very clear that any changes to the code of
conduct would be made by the Board so that the Board is the ultimate author of any such changes.
It is not an exercise of anyone else's executive authority, only the Board has the power to do this. And the
Board will take the action as and when appropriate. I believe that the time can be now and that it need not
be postponed. But I point out that the change is now and in the future must come to the Board in advance
and not as an afterthought. And so I do take exception to Board report page five where it is stated that in
the future changes could be made by the General Manager and then the Board would be advised of such
changes. I take extreme exception to that process.
And then lastly, I would say as we've heard some of these comments, please avoid succumbing to the
heckler's veto. When you have something that is good, something that is workable, something that is
worthwhile, do not say simply because 8, 10, a dozen, two dozen, three dozen, voices say, oh no, don't
do that. Don't pull back from your responsibility. We can follow the principles of continuous quality
improvement. Plan, do, check, act.
You go through the cycle. Make the amendments. Make the amendments. Let's have the Board
discussion and there will be further public comment I am certain. And that public comment will inform the
Chief and others who are responsible for the implementation of these changes to the code of conduct as
they go forward. And then as we encounter challenges or difficulties, we can address them.
But I submit that it is appropriate and beneficial to the agency charged with providing transportation
services to provide safe and secure transportation services. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. That
concludes my remarks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. The next person I have on my list is Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I share some of Director Whitmore's concerns being
representative of a suburban area. And I have a number of constituents who have expressed concern for
their safety for many of the reasons that have been cited. And I would suggest that those constituents of
mine would not really been at the table to talk about this, they look at us as a Board to solve this problem.
I share with Director Tisdale the statement that we are a public transportation agency and that is our
primary mission. And with that in mind, I would be in support of this particular action even though I'm not a
voting member. And I want to make sure, and I'm not sure if this is going to pass out of committee tonight,
but I want to ensure to Chief Fitzgerald that the efforts that he has undertaken thus far and the results that
he has seen, which are impressive, would not be thwarted and that he would not feel that this would
hamstring him in any way in continuing his mission to provide a safer transit system. That's all I have.
Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. I believe Director Guissinger, would you like to speak?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thanks for allowing me to speak to this committee. I
think there are a lot of very good thoughts and concerns raised tonight. I totally agree with the idea that
we are a transit agency and we have to provide a safe and welcoming environment. I have a lot of
concern with sort of the process that brought us here.
And I feel like people are coming tonight-- I mean, typically we do a public engagement process. The
Northwest Rail, the fare and equity study. And it doesn't seem to me like we have gone through that
process in the normal way when we're dealing with something that is high emotion and very important to
a lot of people.
I've been asked by some people to appoint an ad hoc committee or go back to the previous one. I don't
think that's appropriate. That was a Denver-focused committee. And I think we're hearing some feedback
from many of those. I think there's a much bigger world out there as Peggy Catlin and others were just
saying, which is people who need to feel safe on the buses and trains.
But I guess looking at the changes that are being made, I have some concerns. But more importantly, it
doesn't seem to me like postponing this for two months or three months is going to make a big difference.
And it does feel to me like this isn't right. That this needs to go out. Maybe it's a couple of public meetings
and some online feedback. And maybe we just need to spend some more time looking at the language
that's been provided because I do feel like there's some that is unclear. But I'm not voting tonight, but this
is my leaning and probably where I'll go when and if it comes to the Board. But I think that we would be
better off taking this out and doing at least a short-term public engagement process. Thank you very
much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I apologize for omitting your official title earlier. So
thank you for your input. We appreciate it. I do see Director Guzman as his hand up and you have the
floor, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I actually don't need to say anything. [INAUDIBLE] for my comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. OK. I think that it's gone all the way around the room. I'm going to
take the Chair's privilege to make a couple of points here. I also really don't have any questions at this
time, but I want to point out to everybody that we are trying to pass this out of committee and bring it to
the full Board. It is not a done deal. This is not carved in stone.
I would like to see everybody involved in this discussion. So I'd like to see it move out of committee
tonight. I also want to point out this has been said that we have 3 million constituents and we heard from
very few and some of them are regular speakers at our meetings. So I don't denigrate their input for that,
but they have experience in giving feedback. And I think that the idea if we could pass this out of
committee and probably go to some public meetings and hear from a wider variety of people in a public
forum.
I'd like to also note for the record that I have asked some of the people who spoke tonight for their codes
of conduct. That I would like to see what they propose their clients, constituents, users of their services
are asked to adhere to in the same way that they are having input on what we are asking our clients,
riders, users of our services to adhere to. So I will look and see if there's anybody else who needs
another bite at the apple here tonight. I don't see any more hands up.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director Bouquet.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm sorry. Director Bouquet, I'm going to tell you something. On an iPad you cannot
see the hands at the top of the top row. So thank you. That's great. Go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No worries, Madam Chair. I was actually going to make a motion to postpone this
recommended action until our operations and safety committee meeting on June 7th.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will second that motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Now we we're going to need-- so we have a motion already. And Snyder, hopefully
you're still here to help me out with all of this. If not, Robert's Rules of orders is not my forte. So first we
have to move on the amendment.
MELANIE SYNDER: Yes, Madam Chair. So you have a motion and a second on the record, so there'll be
discussion on the amendment and a vote on the amendment before you return back to the main motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Does anybody want to speak to the amendment? Put your hand in front of your
face because I can't see it. OK. I see Director Sloan. I see Director Ruscha. I see Director Rosenthal. And
I will take you in that order.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, again, Madam Chair. I would like to speak to the motion. And I'm not
sure if it's to postpone or table it to a date certain. I heard both strains in there. But I would like to support
that motion. We have heard some good ideas from both supporters of the amendment to the code of
conduct and opponents.
And you know, I have to say, I couldn't-- you know, I almost feel like we need to apologize to the people
who live in the area, work in the area, because they've recounted terrible stories. But I don't see that
postponing this will make any difference to what they've recounted. They talked about terrible behavior
that's already criminal. And I don't believe the amendments to the code of conduct would have any effect
on enforcing our current code of conduct or the criminal statutes. So for that reason I would support the
motion to postpone or table. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Sloan. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I seconded the motion. I'm obviously in support to
postpone until the June meeting and allow for community engagement as we have done in the past.
Some numbers were thrown around tonight that we talked about only a handful of people came to this
meeting for public comment or there are 3.1 million residents in the district. And I just wanted to put on
the record some other numbers as well.
For example, the ACLU wrote a letter that gave me a lot of pause and they were not here tonight, but they
wrote a letter to the Board referencing some equal protection concerns. And I think we have a duty to
hear those out in the future forum. They have over 40,000 members. Counter Cross Disability Coalition
represents thousands of people across the state. They spoke up. Swing By Street Supply helps a few
thousand individuals, including those who are in and around Denver Union Station every week. Colorado
Coalition for the Homeless, again, serves several thousand individuals in our state and they are public
policy experts.

And then what I think was also most concerning for me was that as the Director I received an email from
the ATU. And they have 1,700 represented members that are our operators, our mechanics, our janitors,
et cetera, and they said well they don't have-- they're neutral on this tonight. They did say that they were
not consulted. They might have been informed about these changes, but they weren't collaborated with.
And I think that putting this on pause and respecting and believing Dr. Chief Fitzgerald when he says.
And I think I don't want to ruin the quote, but I think you said you were like an advocate for or a zealot for
community engagement. And I believe you and I trust you. So I think that we can only make this policy
better by hitting the pause button and allowing some more dialogue. So I am in support of tabling it. And I
appreciate everybody who came tonight and shared their thoughts. And I also appreciate what Board
Chair Guissinger said in her reflections. So thank you very much for the opportunity to speak, Madam
Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Rosenthal, I think you were next. Director Broom if you
have your-- Director Broom, if you have your hand up to speak you're going to have to show it to me
because I can't. OK, I'll call on you after Director Rosenthal. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I rise in strong opposition to this motion to delay a
vote on this. I think we have gotten sufficient and substantial and quite a bit of feedback from
organizations, from individuals. But I think what I heard from some Directors tonight and from what I
mentioned that I hear all the time, and when I see myself when I ride the bus and the train, we need to
consider all the many, many voices who are not here tonight who are like, they tell us all the time, like I do
not want to take the bus anymore.
I do not want to take the train any more. We need more security. We need more a sense of like we're
going to be fine when we take the buses and trains. And so that's what this step does. It helps clarify. It
helps to fortify our current policy. And so I really think that we should send this to the full Board, which is
in a few weeks. So we do have a couple of weeks. We do have time to do a couple outreach forums
before then.
People can call in on our next Board meeting. They can send emails. They can send us letters. You
know, we're very accessible as Board members. And so I really think it's highly-- it's just not necessary to
delay this at all. And I think we have sufficient information to go forward with this today. And I hope we do
go forward with this today. Let's speak for the folks who are really telling us all the time like, hey, we need
to do this. And I think some of the concerns that were brought up, we can certainly include that as we look
at this forward over the next couple of weeks and at our next Board meeting. So please do-- members,
let's please pass this today. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know in reflecting on what I've heard since I last talked, it
seems like all we're doing by postponing this is kicking the can down the road for four months. I'd just as
soon tee it up and let the full Board talk about it and people will have a chance to provide input between
now and when the Board takes action. So I'm going to be voting against postponing this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Again, Chair's privilege to speak for a moment. I also think
that we, as I said, I think we need to move it along. We are not recreating the wheel here, people. There
are 63 people listening to this call right now. There were more earlier.

We have a code of conduct now. This is asking for some help to enforce some of the clauses in our code
of conduct that are being ignored. And so I also will not be in favor of postponing this. Although I agree
that I think public meetings would be great. Asking for public input is great.
I'd like to hear more than just the, I don't know, I kind of tried to count directors but I lost count someplace
around 60,000 or something out of our 3 million people who oppose this. And I'd like to hear 60,000
people who are in favor of it. So OK. That's all. Everybody spoke that needs to speak. We're going to take
a vote on the amendment. And let's see, who made the amendment? I have notes here. Dr. bouquet, do
you want to speak your amendment to us again so that we can vote on it?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. It would be to move the recommended action to our June 7th operations and
safety committee.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'll run down the committee names and ask for votes. Director Bouquet, what's
your vote?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm in favor of the amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No. That's no. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: In favor. Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Dr. Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Dr. Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a no. Dr. Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So that amendment did not pass. And now we will go back to the original, I
believe, Robert's Rules of Order. Here we are. It's going to get me one of these days. I believe we could
go back-PAUL ROSENTHAL: And not to pass on the committee.
KATE WILLIAMS: To the original amendment.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: To the full Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Excuse me. Sorry, Director Rosenthal.

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes ma'am.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I had my-- Madam Chair, I hope we still have general council on the line or a
parliamentarian. The recommended action has three separate actions in it and I believe we actually have
to vote individually on them because there are three separate subjects. We have the code of conduct, the
suspension policy, and the requests for the Board to waive their duty and privilege on all future votes on
all future code of conduct votes.
MELANIE SYNDER: Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, please.
MELANIE SYNDER: Thank you. So Director Ruscha, we don't have a single subject rule with the Board.
It's always the prerogative of any Director if you want to make motions to pass these in part. But we have
a motion and a second on the floor right now for the Board to adopt the revisions to both the code and the
service suspension policy. And so right now, Chair, the appropriate procedure would be for any additional
discussion on the main motion and a vote on the main motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry. Madam Snyder, I thought we followed Robert's Rules of Order if it's not
expressly in the bylaws? And I thought that was in Robert's Rules?
MELANIE SYNDER: We use Robert's Rules as our main parliamentary procedure, but I think even this
evening you can see we don't follow that. We use those as a tool, not a barrier. So typically the
recommended action as stated is OK for the Board to vote on. Any Directors welcome to make a motion
though if you wanted to amend what the recommended action would be.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So to-- so if I understand you are saying that a Director could make a motion to the
recommended action to separate out the recommended action into three separate votes. Can you please
explain? I wasn't aware that we only sometimes used Robert's Rules. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: So let me step in here for just a minute. Director Ruscha, this might be a conversation
that you might want to have with our general counsel not in this committee meeting. At the moment, in
this committee meeting we are getting ready to vote on an action that has already been moved in second
and we've had a bunch discussion on. I will let everybody go around the apple one more time if people
want to speak to that. But otherwise, I'm going to call for a vote to move this particular topic. And I can
read the recommended action again for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the code of conduct
and service suspension policy.
And we are trying to move that out of committee. That does not put it into effect, but it moves it out of
committee and takes it to the Board and gives us lots of options. This is a living document people. This is
something that we are trying to work on and trying to implement. And I really feel like the job of this
committee is to move it to the whole Board. So I am going to accept. Yes, Director Whitmore has his hand
up. Go ahead.
TROY WHITMORE: Just one thought to both Director Ruscha and Director Tisdale. Motion tonight does
have three components. And the third component I have a little heartburn with, but I did make the motion.
And I don't think the motion, the crafting the motion is in any violation of Robert's Rules.

But here's the good news. We can change how the recommendation is considered, I would assume, at
the Board meeting. We're moving it out of committee tonight. So I would ask for a yes vote, but I would
like to have Miss Snyder confirm that we could separate between now and the Board meeting if that was
the desire of the Board because I think there's some merit to that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please.
MELANIE SYNDER: Yes, Director Whitmore, that's definitely something that we can look at in advance of
the Board meeting.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Thank you very much. That's a bit helpful I think.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that helps everybody as well. And then if we-- because Director Ruscha's point
is that there seems to be a number of items here. So we are-- I'm now going to call for a vote. And I,
again, will run down the committee members. I'm so happy that I have a printer, but I'll fake it.
OK. This is to approve the original, to move this out of this committee, to adopt revisions to the code of
conduct and suspension policy. Director Whitmore was the movement. Director Rosenthal was the
second. And I will call for a vote now. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm going to make notes here. No. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes. Dr. Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So that passes out of this committee and onto the Board and into the great world
for a whole lot more input from all kinds of people with one, two, three, four, five yeses and two nos. The
nos were Director Bouquet and Director Ruscha. OK. Where am I now? Stand by.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Point of privilege.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Point of privilege.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, absolutely. Is that Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Can we take a break? Can we take a break from the-- just a quick break for those
who-KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely. I'm always-- a health break is a wonderful thing. Let us adjourn for 5
minutes. It is 7:42. I'm even good for 8 minutes. Let's come back at 7:50. Everybody good? See you
momentarily.

