2023-11-15
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. Welcome to the Operations and Safety Committee. We will now come
to order. Do I need to repeat that again for the livestream?
Good evening. The Wednesday, November 15 Operations and Safety Committee will now come to order.
We are convened as of 5:30 PM. And I would respectfully ask that everyone attending this meeting mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us. Note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors continue to
be held remotely via Zoom. They will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with
the unofficial meeting minutes, will be posted as soon as possible on the Board's website. You can visit
rtd-denver.com. And a livestream of this meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to
speak. Others participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like to
speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting from speak to silent on the phone, you press star 6.
I would now like to call the roll of the committee members. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Ruscha. No Director Ruscha? OK. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I am here. I did also see Director Guzman. Let me see if I can change to a
different view and then I'll see who else is here. I see Director Guissinger. I see Director Davidson. I see
Director Catlin. I see Director Guzman.
Board staff, would you keep your eyes open and note if Director Ruscha joins us at some point in time.
Let me know that. I hope I didn't miss any other Directors.

We will now move on to public comment. To anyone who would like to address the committee regarding
any topic which is listed in the published meeting agenda for this month and the immediately preceding
month, if you wish to speak you can raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Please note
that during this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you
would like to be contacted regarding your public comment please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Are there any hands raised for public comment?
JACK KROLL: At this time, Director Williams, I do not see any hands raised. I will let you know, though,
that we did receive a letter from Greater Denver Transit regarding a topic on the agenda. And that has
been forwarded to the Board and will be included in the record for this meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. We appreciate that.
OK. Let's see. So we don't have any speakers. That takes me right past that section of the agenda. Page
turn. Page turn. There is no information from external entities this month, which is the next stage of the
agenda tonight. And we'll move right on to our recommended actions.
We have two recommended actions this evening, which I very carefully printed out and I will now read.
The first recommended action is paratransit vehicle procurement, for the Board of Directors to authorize
the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with Model 1 Commercial
Vehicles Inc for the purchase of 19 paratransit vehicles at a price of $149,047 each, for a total cost of
$2,831,893 in 2024. The contract also contains options for the purchase of up to an additional 231
paratransit and 53 FlexRide vehicles over a five-year period for an estimated cost not to exceed $49
million.
OK. Mr. Ford, do you or any of your staff wish to speak to this subject?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. I'm going to turn this over to Fred Worthen,
AGM of Bus, for a presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Mr. Worthen.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, point of order. I believe we need a motion. And I would make the
motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you for that. We have a motion to move this recommended action forward.
Do I hear a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore and Director Sloan.
OK, back to Mr. Worthen. Mr. Worthen give us some information so we can make a reasonable judgment
about moving this action forward.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Chair Williams. And good evening, honorable Board members. Fred
Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.

Your Board packet contains information related to this recommended action item. I'd like to elaborate on a
few points related to this requested action. This is for a purchase of 19 paratransit vehicles to replace
vehicles that are nearly 10 years old and are well over 150,000 miles per vehicle, on average. This
purchase is necessary to support Access-a-Ride daily operations.
The new vehicles have improved suspensions that should improve the customer experience through
smoother rides than the existing fleet. I'd also like to point out that there is a nationwide shortage of
vendors to meet FTA Buy America standards for both fixed route and paratransit cutaway vehicles. There
is only one Buy America certified vendor of chassis that are produced for paratransit cutaway vehicles.
The one Buy America certified vendor that produces chassis provides a relatively small number of chassis
for these types of vehicles. One manufacturer that produces the cab and body for the cutaway vehicles
has purchased the majority of the manufactured chassis available, thus the market supply is fairly limited.
This has led to significant cost increases for these types of vehicles, as well as longer production lead
times for transit vehicles. With regard to fixed route bus manufacturers, two major manufacturers cease to
produce fixed route buses in the US. This will more than likely impact fixed route buses in a similar
fashion through increased vehicle cost and delays in production schedules.
Our CEO and General Manager, Debra Johnson, is part of an APTA bus manufacturing task force
composed of executives and leaders in the industry. This newly formed task force is focused on
recommending immediate and near-term steps to help ensure a viable and competitive bus
manufacturing environment, as well as to address issues such as I spoke of with regard to bus supply
chain challenges.
After a review of operational needs, we will also be rightsizing the fleet. We are retiring and disposing of
50 other vehicles at this time that will not be replaced. We are also reviewing our fleet makeup and
composition for future purchases. Currently, our paratransit vehicle fleet provides 90% of service using lift
equipped vehicles. However, only 25% of paratransit customers require lift equipped vehicles. Based
upon customer utilization and needs, there may be an opportunity for us to utilize smaller vehicles, such
as sedans and vans, to supplement future Access-a-Ride services.
We're currently in the process of doing a business analysis of our fleet composition needs as well as a
cost benefit analysis of alternative vehicle types, such as vans or sedans. As part of this process, we'll
develop a detailed stakeholder engagement plan. We will also analyze an industry-specific risk, benefits,
and standards to assess the ideal mix between lift equipped vehicles and sedans, vans, or other smaller
vehicles in order to reflect customer needs. This work will be completed before our next scheduled major
accessorized vehicle purchase in 2027.
I should also mention that electric vehicles were not considered for this procurement for many of the
same reasons we have deferred purchasing any alternatively fueled vehicles until after the facilities and
fleet blueprint work that is underway is completed.
I'd also like to add that although you are authorizing options for 231 paratransit vehicles and 53 FlexRide
vehicles, we are not obligated to exercise the options. Granting options authority preserves the agency's
ability to purchase vehicles in the future and locks in pricing for future purchases in alignment with the
contract. With regard to all vehicle purchases, we routinely assess the number, size, and service needs of
the agency before committing to any vehicle purchases.
With that, I am happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you so much, Mr. Worthen, for pointing out some of those. That clarifies the
situation. I just want to note, and then I'll go to see if there's questions, that I did read today that Proterra
was being purchased. So that is of interest to this discussion.
Are there any questions or comments from any of the Directors? Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. So this may be a bit premature, but when we look at
the flexibility afforded with smaller vans or sedans, Fred, or Michael or Debra, does that necessarily give
us some flexibility to maybe provide a wider scope of service as we move forward, or are we basically
kind of in a treading water type scenario as far as our accessibility for Access-a-Ride? Bad pun there.
Just curious. Or maybe it's too early to know.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody have any comment on-- Debra?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good evening to you all. Debra
Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
So to the question, Director Whitmore, when you talk about giving us greater availability, I just want to
qualify and say that we have vehicles that are older, and basically we need to replace them. So the intent
is with the current service model that we have currently, we are exploring leveraging different means of
transport for mobility options. But we need to do that assessment and outreach that Mr. Worthen spoke
of. And then keeping in mind where we are with the limited aspect of having original equipment
manufacturers and adhering to Buy and Build America, that puts us in a very precarious position.
And more specifically to the point is we do contract these services. So we need to work in tandem with
the service provider, recognizing that they have facilities and could have limited resources as well relative
to their people power. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Whitmore, is that good for your question? Anybody else? OK,
seeing no hands. Good job, Mr. Worthen. Thanks. Apparently you explained everything that everybody
wanted to know, me included.
If there are no Directors in objection to moving this forward, let us note for the record that Director Ruscha
is absent, but I will count six yes votes and move this on to the full Board. The mover, I'll note for the
record, was Director Whitmore and the second was Director Sloan. And we have six yes votes.
The second recommended action is for the January, 2024 service change, which is for the Board of
Directors to approve the January 2024 service changes, as revised and summarized in Attachment A,
and to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators impacted by these changes.
I note that Director Whitmore would like us to have a vote right now. Can I have a motion to move this
forward?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. And a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. Make a note. And now, Mr. Ford, do you have staff that
wish to speak to this subject?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. I'll just give a brief presentation here.
Staffing levels continue to be primary challenge in increasing service levels to match those identified in
the System Optimization Plan, known as the SOP. Considering the agency's current staffing levels and
anticipated attrition, the January, 2024 service change recommendations are designed to have minimal
impact on staffing levels and are centered on improving system performance and CBA compliance
related to respite time.
By way of discussion, the guidelines contained in the strategic plan most directly relate to addressing
customer excellence, thus improving on-time performance, maintaining contractual compliance, and
adjusting service levels to match service ridership. Staff is guided by the adopted service change
principles. And in your Board packet, you will see a breakdown summary of proposed service changes,
service improvements, service reductions, as well as seasonal adjustments to account for travel patterns.
Also in your Board packet is a breakdown of public hearings/meetings that were conducted on Monday,
September 25, which was virtual, also on the 25th at 5:30 at 1616 Blake, Rooms T and D, and finally,
Tuesday, September 26, 5:30, which was also virtual.
So at this time, I'm happy to take on any questions that you might have. And I'd also invite Jesse Carter,
RTD's Senior Manager, Service Development, to join me. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Good evening, Mr. Carter. I see Director Rosenthal's hand.
Director Rosenthal, you have the floor.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I just wanted to actually thank Mr. Ford, Mr. Carter,
Mo Sullivan, Jack Kroll and others, who worked on this, particularly in regards to really listening to the
community in regards to 4333 South Syracuse Street in Denver. The 65 bus in particular was rerouted
because a lot of senior citizens lived at that address, and they were going to miss the getting that bus
across the street from them. They would have to walk much further in order to get to the bus stop, which
is what they are now. So switching this back so that they get their bus stop across the street is really
tremendous for those neighbors.
Huge shout out to all those folks I mentioned and everyone on the team. Thank you so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Mr. Carter, do you have anything you want to add?
JESSE CARTER: In the interest of time, I'd rather answer questions, if there are any other questions or
comments to the service change at this point.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing nothing further, I have a motion from Director Rosenthal and a second
from Director Sloan. Are there any Directors in opposition to bringing this item forward to the full Board?
Seeing no objections, we'll note that Director Ruscha is absent, but that there are six votes. And this
committee will move this forward to the full Board of Directors at the end of this month.

The next item on our agenda is a discussion item. We have one this evening. And the item is for a human
resources update, quarter 3. And I'd like to ask Charlene Polege, the Chief People Officer, to present this
item.
CHARLENE POLEGE: How about now? Can we hear me now? Wonderful. Thank you. I said, so
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. And Chair Williams, you committed to getting it right. And you
thought it would take you longer, but you got it. So I appreciate-KATE WILLIAMS: That's an inside joke. I've had a hard time with Charlene's last name. And I got Polege
now. It's not like anybody ever screws up Williams.
CHARLENE POLEGE: That's all good. It's all good.
So I am going to share my screen. Just give me one moment. I'll pull this up. And I would ask that as I get
it up that we confirm that the correct view is available.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's so fun. We're all transit people but we have had to learn to be tech experts as well.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Is it the full screen view?
KATE WILLIAMS: Not that I am seeing.
CHARLENE POLEGE: OK. I had to change this earlier. Let's try that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Looks the same to me.
MICHAEL FORD: I changed the setting. We'll try this again.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. The pros and cons to people not being in the office. Is there somebody around
that we can run in there to help you?
CHARLENE POLEGE: We will get this going here. Hold on.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. In the meantime, I'd also like to thank all of Mr. Ford's staff for helping on a
number of changes. OK, I'm giving the floor back.
CHARLENE POLEGE: There we are.
KATE WILLIAMS: You got it.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Perfect. Just a couple-- it's the extra monitors.
So thank you to the committee. Today is the Q3 update. And I'm going to change the order up just a little
bit. Normally I start out with the presentation on-- now my mouse isn't working. Why do I have technical
difficulties?
I'm going to switch it up. We're going to talk about people power after. But I want to start out by starting
with a strategic initiative. Everything, last committee meeting, for Q2, we talked about our recruitment
process. And as we know, we're focused intently on recruitment and retention. And so I want to talk about
our strategic initiative and do a little bit of context setting around the external conditions in which we are

competing for talent as well as that impact with internal resources. And then we'll step into an overview of
our people power with our Q3 dashboard and then tying this all together with the impact on recruitment
and retention.
So with respect to our strategic initiative, everything that we are doing under GM Johnson's leadership is
connected into our mission, vision, and our strategic priorities. So making lives better through connection,
being a trusted leader in mobility, and delivering excellence and value to our customers and community,
and really anchoring that with our strategic priorities of employee ownership, financial success,
community value, and customer excellence.
Recognizing big picture, we need to bring this down into our 2023-2024 strategic initiatives. So we honed
that in on three areas, of which we have back to basics, a welcoming transit environment, creating a
welcoming transit environment, and people power. And I would say that each of these are interwoven.
They're interconnected. We can't create a welcoming transit environment without people power.
But at the same time our people power and our ability to recruit and attract talent to the agency is also
impacted by a welcoming transit environment, because that's also not just for our customers, but also for
our staff. So these three initiatives are all functioning together. And I wanted to set that context because
we are constantly tagging back to these initiatives when we are thinking of strategic ways and frameworks
in which to increase our staffing levels and to retain the talent that we have.
So talking a bit about context setting. And I want to look external. So when we look at external conditions
and the competition for talent, it should be no surprise that talent is tough to come by these days. The
competition is fierce. It doesn't matter which sector you happen to be in. There are, based on these stats,
just shy of two jobs available for every active participant in the labor market. So that means, as it simply
states, everyone is competing for a very small pool of talent. We are not dissimilar here at RTD.
Additionally, when you look at the labor force participation, there's an additional factor that impacts RTD.
So when you look at the graph with respect to, from the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment,
this is a stat that is indicating that there was growth in the job market. So that in June, jobs in the state
increased by 4,500. So that increased our labor force, which is great. The jobs that are available, great for
the economy.
The impact on RTD is twofold. One, it means that we're competing. That competition for talent is only
increasing and becoming more complex. But also, when the economy adds jobs, and in this case, of
those 4,500 jobs that were added, the majority of those jobs were in the hospitality sector. Well, when
businesses add jobs into the sector, that means that that increases people who need access to our
services, who need to be able to use public transit to get to their jobs. So we have a double impact. We're
competing for talent, but as more jobs come on the market, the demand likely for our services would
increase.
On top of that, interesting, there's an article that I'm sharing here that was in Forbes magazine. And it was
talking about the three most overworked cities in America with the highest risk for burnout. Unfortunately,
given that this is not a list that I think we would want to be on traditionally in Denver, we are. In fact, it's
Washington, DC, Colorado, and Austin are the top three cities that were cited in this study.
Why is that relevant? Well, when we look at the breakdown, so how did they assess these, as they called
them, these workaholic cities. And they had a number of factors. So weekly hours worked. So where did a
particular city fall with the weekly hours that an average worker would work? Commute in minutes. How

many dual job households were there in that location? How many workers that worked in excess of 50
hours per week? 50 weeks per year, pardon me.
How many older adult workers? So what percentage of the workforce were older adult workers? What
percentage of the workforce had two jobs? So not just one job that they required access to our services to
get to, but two. Workers with a side hustle. So that's the gig economy. And then they put all that together
and came up with, as I said, these workaholic cities.
Key things that I want to point out in this is when you look at overall the difference between Washington,
DC, and Denver, Colorado, they're pretty close. It's the overall aggregate on their rating metric was 81.1
for Washington and 80.6 for Denver. But what's most interesting here to me is that Austin and everyone
else is a far separation. Really, Washington DC and Denver are leading the pack on these metrics.
What was really driving for Denver was the workers, the percentage of workers that work 50-plus weeks
per year, which means they're not taking vacation or personal time off, Denver actually led in this survey
at 64.8%. The percentage of older adult workers, which, as an HR professional, I actually really like this
because it shows an inclusivity that has expanded where old does not mean incapable of being able to
work. I mean, it's a great thing from an HR perspective.
Here, they're suggesting that Denver is sitting higher, with 21.2% with respect to the percentage of older
adult workers in the workforce. And then workers with two jobs. Denver shows second, only behind
Minneapolis, in fact, where we have workers with two jobs.
Why does all of this cause interest? Because a higher risk of burnout means fewer-- not only are existing
employees are impacted, they would also be captured in some of this-- but also potential candidates that
we're looking to recruit. In particular of concern is workers with two jobs. In our safety sensitive positions,
having workers working in excess of regulated hours. Certainly for RTD, we can control that. But you
know, it's tough if you're working in a safety sensitive position to be holding down two jobs and working in
excess of 80 hours in a week.
So continuing with external conditions. Drugs and personal safety. I'm sharing here for our context, and
this will be not unfamiliar to the members of the committee. We have a challenge with our media where
when we are rolling something out like our summer of free fares, the tagline is, will it be truly
embarrassing because of the drug use and other problems in the system, in our communities, frankly.
Additionally, another comment that came out, there were other media articles that that was the story. It
was the drug and alcohol and not the benefit to the community and the changes that we are really
pushing the reach of and the purpose of public transportation.
Additionally, though, and I'm sharing here this last comment, which is from RTD's 2023 employee survey,
and this response here is from my perspective as the Chief People Officer. This really was getting to me.
And I use that term because it makes my stomach kind of fall just even restating it and reading it every
time I see it. 55% of staff who took the survey, our employee survey, in May of this year indicated that
they do not feel safe from crime in the work environment. This is a real stat. These are real factors that it
makes it not only difficult to retain our employees and our staff, through no fault of their own, but also to
help attract and to bring in new talent.
So I'm sharing this because this is part of the external and the unique environment to which we need to
draw. It's not a matter and it's not as simple as just, we're putting up a job posting because we have jobs

and we're hiring. We do have jobs. But those jobs are safety sensitive and there are lots of requirements
for those jobs. But also, we need to make sure that we continue to be an attractive employer.
But we're not alone. So other transit agencies are experiencing the same thing. A survey that was done
by APTA referenced that 92% of transit agencies are experiencing difficulty hiring, 66% are experiencing
difficulty retaining employees. We are absolutely seeing the same things here. We are not unique. And
the transit sector as a whole, there are many-- our GM Johnson has been asked to speak. Other GMs
and leaders of transit agencies are being asked to participate in task force and to have conversations
around what can we do differently so that we can continue to, or actually so that we can increase our
service to all of the respective communities that public transit serves.
So I share that to say 52% have also increased starting pay. We've done that here with support from the
Board of Directors. We have implemented sign-on bonuses and we continue to do those. So we are doing
all of the things that our peer institutions are doing-- agencies, pardon me, are also doing.
So recognizing the context, I wanted to now share our people power, so our dashboard. How, if you look
at the dashboard through that lens that we've just seen that there is a community challenge and a societal
challenge and an intense competition for talent, when we look at our people power metrics for Q3, if
you're looking in Q3, we were able to hire 146 positions. So we brought on 146 new staff into RTD.
We're targeting to increase to be above what we brought in, what we were able to hire last year in 2022.
Based on this, we're targeting-- December slows down a little bit, although we'll talk about that as well,
because we're pushing hard, in particular with transit police recruitment-- we're targeting to be probably
about 550 hires in 2023. If we're looking just at hires, if we were to compare-- and I know the stat isn't on
here-- but if we were to look back at Q2-- or, sorry, Q3-- for 2022, there's an 11% increase in hiring. So
positive to see the numbers going in the right direction.
Conversely, with separations, there were 88 in Q3. And that's across all positions, represented and
nonrepresented. That actually is a 26% reduction in separations from the same quarter in 2022. So those
are positive metrics. But if we're looking to recruit 550, if you look at the math, it's still says, as I've been
targeting, we're still targeting roughly one employee departing per day, which is still a number that we
need to continue to reduce. Our vacancy rate is dropping, but it drops and it ticks back up, and it drops
and it ticks back up. So we are recruiting but we still have some work to do with retention.
Drilling down as I do, focusing more so on bus operations, rail operations, and transit police, this slide I've
edited just a little bit to add in the note in the arrows is the percentage change, so from the prior quarter,
to try to just give a little bit more, a backwards looking and forwards. What I will say here, this is the first
quarter that every arrow is pointing down, not going up, and you see no red.
Why that's important is, just to refresh, red means that-- so the benchmark that we're using is 15%
vacancy rate. If it's 15% or higher and it's increased from the prior quarter, it's red. If it's 15% or higher
and it has decreased, it's yellow. It's yellow because it's still over 15%. It's 15% or higher. It only goes
green if it's less than 15%.
So when we look at this, positive movement that the arrows are all pointing downward. We have had, if
we're looking at bus operations, our bus operators we've had a 1% decrease in the vacancy rate. So
we've added and were able to retain in that area for full time. Part-time operators, that's been a 15%
decrease in the vacancy rate. So again, that means we've been able to, the bus operations team, and HR
have been able to bring on additional part-time operators.

In the maintenance, general repair, and body shop, we have had a 2% improvement over Q2. And their
vacancy rate sits at 20%. And cleaning and service vault-- so for bus operations, that's the only group in
bus operations that is green. So it is less than. They're sitting at a 9% vacancy rate.
Looking over then at rail Operations with the same tracking, a slight improvement in our rail operators, our
full-time rail operators. There's no change because it's fully staffed for part-time. Light rail vehicle
maintenance, we've had an 8% increase over Q2. And maintenance of way and infrastructure, we have a
1% increase. But I would call out, as I always do, that although these numbers are tracking in the right
direction, we are not comfortable nor happy with a 37% vacancy rate in maintenance of way and
infrastructure. And so we continue to keep pushing to fill those critical roles in rail operations.
Looking then over at transit police, we're seeing some zeros here. So of course, commanders are 100%
staffed, our sergeants are now 100% staffed. You see a 17% decrease. That's because we filled the final
sergeant position in this last quarter. Corporals are still sitting at 50%. But the big move was with our
officers. There's been a 22% drop last quarter. That was sitting at 74%. I did give a little bit of insight in
our Q2 update that we were anticipating that this number would drop. I'm going to do the same for Q4.
Chief Fitzgerald and his team and the HR team have been working diligently to bring that number down
and to fill the full allotment of budgeted police officer positions by the end of December. And I believe
we're going to hit that target.
Additionally, as I said previously, we're actually adding additional orientations in December. We usually
do two a month. We'll be having three. So we don't lose any pace at our hiring that we keep moving, even
though we're moving into the holidays. And in particular, we'll be doing a special orientation for police
officers only on December 28 because a large group will be starting in a number of academies the first
week of January.
So a lot of positive movement in the right direction. But there's still more work to do. I don't shy away from
that. It would not be fair if I were to say anything less than that but we are continuing to move forward.
So I'm going to pause here, just to make sure that I've given a lot of information on this update and I
thought I would just pause for a moment, Chair Williams, to see if there are any questions or anything at
this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. I will ask any of the Directors that are interested to raise their hand. And while
we're waiting for that, I have a couple of comments that I want to throw in. The state demographer
recently noted that we have more people leaving the state than we have coming into the state. That's
new. She has also noted that we have more older workers and that a large percentage of those are
retiring.
And I also want to note that we have some Board members who are older and some Board members who
work two jobs and some Board members who do both, older and two jobs. So we are all in sympathy with
this situation.
I see Director Rosenthal's hand up. I'll go there first.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Actually, I believe Director Whitmore was before me, if that's all right.
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead, Director Rosenthal.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. So thank you, Charlene. Appreciate that presentation, the excellent information.
We regularly see that slide, the one with folks who are leaving and the reasons for leaving. But you didn't- oh, you didn't go over that yet.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I haven't got to that yet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. So I have a question about that when it comes. Let's see. You know what? I will
wait for that slide. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Whitmore, do you want to talk about what we
heard so far?
TROY WHITMORE: I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. So congratulations on the trends moving in the right
direction. That's a good sign. What do you credit the uptick? Is it some new recruiting techniques? Is it
more recruiters, as CEO Johnson had mentioned a while back. I'm just curious what that trend is or
what's the cause of that trend. And that's my question. Thanks.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great. Thank you for the question, Director Whitmore.
So there's a couple things. We've been targeting, it's like a multi, it's a multi-pronged approach here. So
absolutely, we have expanded our reach with respect to using a job board called [INAUDIBLE]. But it
provides us the opportunity to post in real time across hundreds of job boards across the state and even
outside of the state, if we so choose. So that's really increased our number of applicants significantly. So
that's one area.
With that increased number of applicants, as you indicated and as GM Johnson has indicated, we did add
additional resources to the talent acquisition team. And those are actually, the full staffing is not fully
online just yet. But as far as the front line recruitment team, we do have that. That has made a huge
difference.
And we're also working with, for example, in Bus Operations, AGM Worthen, he's offered up resources in
his area. And AGM Jensen is doing the same thing, where they're actually augmenting with Human
Resources to be able to reach out, review applications, reach out to candidates and help move the
process along in a more expeditious manner. So those are just a few things.
And as well, we're also looking at our testing. As we've talked about before, not every person can be a
bus operator or a train operator. There's training provided but there are also some criteria, and we'll get to
that in a couple slides. But we do a lot of testing. So we're also looking at our testing to make sure that
we're asking the right questions and that we are not unduly excluding someone because maybe the test
is harder than it needs to be. So we're really looking at every avenue and then overall, just a push.
With respect to police, that is a tremendous amount of work in collaboration with HR that the Transit
Police leadership have been doing under Chief Fitzgerald's leadership direction. They've really been
pushing. And we have a dedicated-- we've just hired a, she started two weeks ago, so we now have a
dedicated recruiter for Transit Police. But prior to that, we had Diane Cartwright, who works in HR, longtime RTD employee, essentially had just been focusing all of her time and efforts to support that move.
And so it's really all of those things together. Everyone has been focused on recruitment and trying to
move that needle forward.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you so much for the good answer. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. It was a great answer. Anybody else? Or do we want to go on, Ms.
Polege, through the rest of the presentation?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Will do. And I normally don't pause. I just had shared a lot of information so
thought it might be timely. Perfect.
KATE WILLIAMS: Great.
CHARLENE POLEGE: So some of what we just discussed will come up in the people power with respect
to recruitment. So we are looking to review, revise, and enhance our entire process. And that is an
initiative that falls under our people power strategic initiative, due to be completed by the end of June. But
we're not just reviewing it and then making holistic changes all at once. When we see changes that make
sense in the moment, we're just implementing them. And then we'll come up with the final product.
The intention, as we talked about, increasing our talent pools. We want to keep increasing the candidate
quality, reducing the time to fill. So in our presentation that we saw last quarter, it can be lengthy for some
positions. Bus Operations is running like, it's running very well and they're constantly looking for ways to
reduce that time.
And we want to enhance candidate experience. And part of that is also trying to find, if a candidate has
applied to be, say, a bus operator but maybe that's not the role that they're best suited to, we're also
trying to funnel them into other openings within the agency as opposed to saying, no, thank you, and then
moving on to the next. We're also trying to identify that.
Leveraging technology, as I talked about. There's an increase in community outreach. The Community
and Engagement Team, under the Chief Communications and Engagement Officer Stuart Summers,
they're working with HR. And we actually have out in the operations employees who are raising their hand
and saying, hey, I have an idea, can we go and do that. So we're looking at every opportunity there.
And then we are continuing to work in HR on our learning and development plan to create the growth
constellations. The growth constellations, in our vernacular, is opportunity. So where can I go in RTD that
I can have a career but I can change jobs within RTD. But I can have my career at RTD. I don't need to
leave RTD to find something new and to find a new challenge. So we're also building that out in unison.
So let's look at retention. And this will, I think, get to Director Rosenthal, this is the chart and the graph
that you were speaking of. So we are tracking our retention. And more specifically, we're looking at
separation. So if an employee chooses to depart, which is what you're seeing here, RTD in a given
quarter, we're looking at the numbers and why.
So as the trend holds, the percentage of voluntary separation is the vast majority, sits at about 85%, our
voluntary separations. And so we're looking at the voluntary. Retirement continues to be the key driver.
It's the key reason for turnover. And it's coming in at 22%. It tends to hover around 20% every quarter.
We're not seeing a change in that. And so we are starting to add that into our predictions, that not only do
we need to recruit for vacant positions, we're going to need to recruit an additional percentage to make up
for retirements.

You mentioned, Chair Williams, about the state indicating that people are moving. And we're seeing that
in our staffing as well. So 12% in this last quarter who decided to leave RTD moved. And so that is
critical. Our lead drivers, you see unknown and other employment. We don't know.
We find out from individuals why they're leaving, but sometimes they don't tell us or sometimes it's job
abandonment. They just don't come back. And that's unfortunate. So for the unknowns, we are trying to
get that information. But my assumption would be that it is closer to other employment and/or family
reasons we do see the higher ratings here.
What's also important that I do want to highlight here is in this quarter, and we've seen this trending
throughout the year, dissatisfied with pay is not-- it's 0 individuals this month. I think prior-- or this quarter- the prior quarter it was 1%. The quarter before that it might have been two people. It's just not, and the
data is saying that that's not a driver. But what is a driver is other employment. So people can, if that
competition for talent, as I was saying, that setting things up.
Family reasons. We don't necessarily know at all times what the family reasons might be. But I will say,
we are working-- I was actually working on this today, as a matter of fact-- we're trying to do a correlation
between our stay interviews, because we know that it's in the first 24 months that has the highest
percentage of turnover. So we're looking at the stay interviews we do to see if we can find a correlation
where if someone says something about family, are they later, at 12 months, 8 months, 24 months, are
they showing up as a voluntary separation?
If we can make that correlation, then maybe we can start targeting in that stay interview what is it. What is
it? What can we do? How can we change? So we are starting that work to try to get more understanding
of what's driving the separation.
So with it comes to retention, we've got to find a balance. So recruitment is retention. And when I was
saying earlier why we wanted to set the context, as I said, you can't create a welcoming transit
environment without people power. But also, that welcoming transit environment is our strongest attractor
for future talent coming into the agency.
So we need to find that right balance. And we are pleased with the numbers going down and the positive
trends with recruitment, but we want to see-- and definitely pleased to see a 26% reduction from the
same quarter in 2022. But we need to get that number below 365 people in a year. We don't want to lose
one employee every day.
We need to find out what are the optimal working conditions. How does the schedule impact? We have a
different-- we have an aging operator. So we have average age of 55. What does a 22- or 23-year-old
want to see in their work environment? Are they prepared to wait four to five years before they get a
steady schedule, especially when they have opportunity with other competition for jobs that may not have
existed-- well, not may not, it didn't exist 20 or 25 years ago. So we need to do more research to find out
those optimum working conditions.
We need to stay competitive in our compensation. And GM and CEO Johnson has repeatedly made
commitments that we are going to stay market competitive. So we want to ensure that we continue to do
that. And so in HR, we are constantly looking at market analysis for our nonrepresentative and
represented positions.

I'm talking about the growth constellations again here, because it's not just a recruitment tool. It's also a
retention tool.
So commercial driver's license. A commercial driver's license is, in a sense, it's an entry point into many,
not the majority, of our represented positions. And so if you come in as a service cleaner, if you want to
get on to be a mechanic, you not only need to learn how to be a mechanic, you also need to have your
commercial driver's license. And so we're creating opportunities to ensure that we can get people the right
training.
We're working with ATU 1001 on an apprenticeship program. It is targeted to start at mechanics. Once we
get that moving and running well, then we will look at other job classifications where we can bring in and
exercise the benefits of having a strong and vibrant apprenticeship program.
Supervisors and manager training. We can't create an employee-centric work environment or a culture. It
starts with our supervisors and managers because we are engaging with our people on a daily basis. And
so we have launched, as of October 30, a completely revamped and revised supervisor and manager
training program. There's a core and custom modules. Core are six core modules. And then the custom
are ones that make sense for RTD, that are very unique to us. So that's launching and that will be going
through, all the way through until July of 2024.
And as I said, there's a constant focus on ensuring that we have a culture and climate that is employeecentric. Employees who are committed and dedicated to our customers and providing exceptional
service. So that is a foundational piece in everything that we are building upon. And that is the first
module, in fact, in the supervisors and manager training is about our values and how do we bring our
values to life. How do we as leaders model them so that we can create that climate and culture that you
feel, not that's written in a strategic plan, but that you see in the things that we do and how we engage.
So from a retention and from a people power, and that concludes my Q3 HR update. And I will pause,
because I'm sure Director Rosenthal would like to ask his question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal, you have the floor.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Charlene, again for your presentation.
Very detailed.
And I know you wouldn't necessarily have this information right now. But to the extent that you're able to
break down for new hires some of this data, so for example, for the reasons why people are departing,
you're looking at things like family issues, taking a new job, retirement, moving away, those sorts of
things, which may have some influence by the percentage that you gave us earlier of employees not
feeling safe from crime and their environment.
So what I'm saying is for the newer employees, it seems to me they're more maybe influenced in the
categories of unknown, dissatisfied with their job or abandonment. Are those categories of why people
are leaving, are they bigger for the newer employees? Does that make sense? Because obviously, if
you're a newer employee, you're not retiring. You may not be moving away. You may not be leaving for
job issues and things like that. But it may be, it's because they are feeling less safe. Is that the case?
I'm just kind of creating this hypothesis and wanted to know if you had any data behind that.

CHARLENE POLEGE: So I do understand the question. I would say this. The majority of our turnover, of
that voluntary turnover is new hires and it falls within that 24-month period. And so I don't know. We don't
track specifically in our reasonings if it is safety, if one doesn't feel safe at work.
But that is some of the work that we're trying to do when I indicated the trying to find a correlation
between the stay interviews and the exit interviews, or the exits. Because the exit interviews were-people are more likely to be very open in a stay interview. They'll share more because it's a very forwardlooking process. Whereas in an exit interview, we are restricted, frankly, by what an individual tells us is
their reason. It could be an other motivation that they're not sharing with us.
So I don't have specific data, but I can commit that we are looking at that so that we can, and really
analyze what data we do have to see not just the hypothesis but can we prove it. Can we actually show
so then we can create strategies that allow us to counter it.
So unfortunately, I can't say for sure. But I don't think it's a misdirected hypothesis. I also think it's
possible that we are seeing more retirees because of the change in the impact. The job is different for
them than it was a few years ago. And so if I'm not feeling safe now and I can retire, then I might be more
likely and more willing to do so.
And so we also are going to look at that. And we want to try to drill into that. But that's a delicate thing,
because we also don't want to-- I think retirement's a wonderful thing. And if someone wants to retire, I
don't want to discourage someone from doing that. But at the same time, we have to strike a balance.
Because if someone is leaving sooner than they might like because of the working conditions, that's
where we need to-- we've got to find those optimal working conditions.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And also, I'm sure that issue of not feeling safe also makes it more difficult to attract
more employees, especially drivers. Yeah.
CHARLENE POLEGE: 100%. And I would say, this is also in the survey, we were able to ascertain that it
wasn't just in the day-to-day function. It was getting to work. It was walking to work. It was being-- and so
that's a societal. That's something that all of us collectively as Citizens are concerned about. It's not just
an RTD issue, but it does impact our staff 100%.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then one final question, Madam Chair. Sorry for going at length.
So at what point in the process are particularly employees who are more public facing, like our drivers,
are they informed about marijuana use? Because as you know, from federal rules, they're not allowed to
use that, which is legal in Colorado. But at what point are they notified so that they either don't apply or
they're just weeded out or they withdraw their application? Or how does that work?
KATE WILLIAMS: That was a bad pun.
CHARLENE POLEGE: May I go ahead, Chair Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Go ahead, please. I was laughing at the weeded out.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, that was not even made for humor. My apologies.

CHARLENE POLEGE: So that's a great observation. And I was remiss in actually highlighting that that is
also a restriction and a challenge for us in recruitment, that other agencies in other states where
marijuana usage isn't legal aren't confronted with. So that is one of the challenges that we have as well.
We see that as a difficult-- it's a difficult situation.
But we do provide, especially with the operators in that work that I was saying that AGM Worthen and HR
and AGM Jensen are doing, there are conversations where new candidates are provided with that
information. They know that they need to do drug and alcohol testing. And we really do make a focused
effort to highlight that so that people understand.
That said, we know-- I know there are stats-- every quarter, the larger portion of involuntary, a significant
portion of involuntary separations are due to violations of the drug and alcohol policy. And while that's
unfortunate, that's a good thing because we are doing our testing and we are holding people accountable
and we need to do that.
So I'm certain we could do more. But it is something that candidates are advised at the get-go very early
on and throughout the process.
KATE WILLIAMS: You good, Director Rosenthal? And thank you, Ms. Polege. That was a great
presentation. I'd like to note that we have nine of the Directors here at this meeting. And I'm wondering if
it's possible for Mr. Kroll to send this presentation out to all of the Directors, so that those who are not
here can have access to it, because I think there's some really good information in there. So that's just a
note that doesn't require a reply. Thank you for this information.
OK. Are there any other matters that anyone would like to bring to this committee?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Broom, you have the floor.
BOB BROOM: I thought I had my hand up. But I had a question as it pertains to the economy. I think the
last time we had a recession was back in like the 2007 and 2008 timeline. And I wondered, did we
experience a lot of people applying at RTD as a result of losing their jobs in other industries? Or perhaps
they worked in construction and the construction dried up so they were looking for something else.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody want to have a stab at that statistic?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, ma'am.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. I can't speak specifically to RTD, but I will say collectively as a transit agency
during the Great Recession, there were some heavy impacts relative to where we are as a organization.
During the Obama Administration, they put for OPERA money intentionally to help generate additional
activities. But most transit agencies basically felt the impact from sales tax and things of the like. And
many agencies actually had a reduction in force, very similar to the era in which we are in now, trying to
recoup from relative to COVID.
So I don't believe we have anybody on this call, and perhaps Mr. MacLeod could speak to 2008, 2007, I
believe he was here. But I would be remiss to say that our data is not optimal, as we have shared with

this body before. But just from a historical perspective, recognizing I was working in transit at the time and
clued in on what was happening at a national level from the transit space, a lot of agencies had to do
reductions in force. It wasn't a period of time in which there was active hiring for people power.
BOB BROOM: OK. So what you're saying is the long talked about recession does come in the next year
or so, it's not going to bail us out because then we won't be in a position to hire.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, ma'am.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, I would agree with that assumption. But it's hard to forecast what may be
relative to the looming recession and then we're seeing all these fluctuations. I try to stay up to date on
that. So we'll see how that all shakes out. But I would say from your viewpoint, that could turn out to be
quite accurate. And as I said, I don't know if Mr. MacLeod wants to opine, but I don't see him coming on.
There he is. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. And I apologize, my
camera is not working. I arrived at RTD in 2010. So I was at the tail end of the Great Recession.
However, anecdotally and the stories I heard from others at the time were exactly as General Manager
Johnson stated.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you all. Any other matters that anyone would like to bring up?
OK, hearing only crickets, I'd like to note, as Director Tisdale noted last night at the Finance Committee
meeting, that this is the last Operations and Safety Committee meeting for this current year. And based
on that, I'd like to just make a brief statement, that I'd really like to thank the RTD staff. Because several
times each month they faithfully prepare for this and other meetings. They put together cogent and
worthwhile presentations. They endeavor to answer a wide variety of questions from the members of the
Board and the public. And they participate until late hours of the night at any number of meetings.
So I would really like to wrap up this group by thanking all of the RD staff and to all a good night. Oh, wait.
Oh, no. I have to have some procedures that go with that. We can't just ride off into the darkness here.
OK. The next Operations and Safety Committee meeting is scheduled for January 17, 2024. Please note
your calendars. And seeing no other discussion, no hands raised, no presents coming yet, this meeting is
adjourned as of 6:38. Thank you all so much.
JACK KROLL: Good night, everyone.

