Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and Planning and Development Committee
held on November 6, 2008
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

November 11, 2008

Subject: Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and Planning and Development
Committee held on November 6, 2008 at 5:32 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****
Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Barbara Brohl, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl
Kinton, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Dave Ruchman, John
Tayer, and Barbara Yamrick
Juanita Chacon, Neill Quinlan, Noel Busck,

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Pauletta Tonilas, Scott Reed, Rick Clark, Brian Middleton, Bill
VanMeter, Bill Sirois, Marla Lien, Paula Perdue, Lisa Trujillo, Larry Warner,
and Karen Morales.

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn (The Rocky Mountain News), Jeff Leib (Denver Post)
****

Call to Order

Director Christopher called to the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

Director Pulliam received a call from the City Managers Office in Arvada informing him that RTD
was receiving recognition from City Council. Wally Pulliam attended the meeting to receive the
recognition signed by the entire City Council.
Director McMullen attended the Denver City Council meeting and RTD received recognition for
receiving the #1 Transit Agency Award and Councilwoman, Judy Montero sponsored a
resolution for council to support FasTracks.
Director Kemp referenced a letter received from Green Wood Village showing support and
congratulating RTD on their accomplishment.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and Planning and Development Committee
held on November 6, 2008
Page 2
1.

Recommended Actions
The board agreed to adopt all the recommended action items with one vote.

Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to receive Senate Bill 1 grant funding in the amount of
$473,300 from the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), Division of Transportation
Development and pay the required local match in an amount up to $157,700, for the
acquisition of one mall shuttle for demonstration purposes on RTD’s 16th Street Mall Shuttle
services.
District-wide Enclaves Annexations and Revised RTD Boundary Map and Description
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize publication of a proposed resolution of
annexation and schedule a public hearing and consideration of the resolution at the Board
meeting of December 16, 2008. Publication of the proposed resolution will initiate the
process to annex several parcels of unincorporated land surrounded by the District in
accordance with the provisions of CRS 32-9-106.8.
Approval to extend three year option on Contract Award to Strategic Community Partners
for the FasTracks Public Information/Involvement Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to exercise a three-year option, that will be renegotiated annually, on the contract award
to Strategic Community Partners, the current FasTracks Public Information/Involvement
Consultant, in the amount of $1,098,980 for Public Information/Involvement,
Communications and Public Outreach consulting work for FasTracks for the year 2009.
Funds for the award are contained in the 2009 FasTracks Budget.
Request for Approval of the Fifth Year (2009) Contract Award to Delcan for the FasTracks
Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fifth
year contract award to Delcan in the amount of $1,340,000 for Quality Management
Consulting Services for FasTracks for the year 2009. Funds for the award are contained in
the 2009 RTD FasTracks Budget.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and Planning and Development Committee
held on November 6, 2008
Page 3

Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultant for FasTracks
Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the
Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Engineering Consultant (FRSC), in the amount
of $5,551,186 bringing the total contract value to $27,561,305. Funds for the award are
contained in the 2009 and 2010 FasTracks Budget.
Approval of the Fifth Year (2009) Contract Award to Jacobs Carter Burgess for FasTracks
Program Support Services Consultant (PSC)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to approve the fifth year contract award to Jacobs Carter Burgess, in the amount of
$17,965,423 for Program Support Services Consulting for FasTracks for the year 2009.
Funds for the award are contained in the 2009 FasTracks Budget.

2.

3.

Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
all the above recommended actions to the
full Board at the November 18, 2008 Board
Meeting

Second:

Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Move to Executive Session
Chair Christopher asked for a motion to move into Executive Session to discuss C.R.S.
24-6-402(4)(a) and (e) Pacific Railroad Property Acquisition and relocation agreement

Executive Session

Motion:

Director Ruchman made a motion to
move to Executive Session.

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and Planning and Development Committee
held on November 6, 2008
Page 4
4.

5.

Recommended Action from Executive Session
Motion:

Director Ruchman made a motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
November 18, 2008 Board Meeting

Second:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates
 P3 RFP Survey Results
Brian Middleton, quickly went through the power point presentation. The objective
was to obtain input from stakeholders that can be used to frame the Eagle P3 RFP
and identify key issues of concern to stakeholders. The approach used was to
develop a comprehensive questionnaire, circulate questionnaire to key stakeholders,
analyze the results and review how to accommodate into the RFP.
There were 362 stakeholders invited to participate. Of the 362, 77 responses were
received which is a 21% response rate. Survey results are available in the power
point presentation.
 Summary of Public Input on FasTracks Options
Pauletta Tonilas, went through the summary of public input on FasTracks options.
Please see the power point presentation for specifics. Cal indicated that staff will go
through the other options in detail at the meeting on Tuesday the 11th. The
information will not be available until then. Director Kemp asked there to be a sing in
log available to those who would like to speak at the November 11th meeting.
Director Brohl requested that there be additional public participation as we drill down
and get to a point where it is an A or B decision. Six months before we make a
decision will not work. It needs to be done timely so the board has enough time to
review before making a final decision.
The board agreed to strike Option #2 but leave it and show it as eliminated.

6.

Other Matters – No other matters were discussed.

7.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee and Planning and
Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, December 2, 2008.

8.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Director Christopher declared the meeting adjourned at
8:00 p.m.

