Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 13, 2010
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

July 13, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held
July 13, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Committee Chair Tayer, Vice Chair James, Directors Brohl, Bagley, Busck,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, and Pulliam

Directors Kemp, Martinez, and Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clark, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Bob Downes, Dave
Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Brian Matthews, Anthony
Menendez, Brian Middleton, Brian Matthews, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez,
Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Greg
Straight, John Tarbert, Lisa Trujillo, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Vidi Moller – JP Morgan, Roger Wilson – DTP, Dee Wisor S & H, Lorraine
Anderson, Carol Streamer, Gary Forbes – First Transit, Jeff Leib - The
Denver Post

*******************************************************************
Call to Order:
Chair Tayer called the Financial Administration and Audit Committee to order
at 5:40 p.m.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 13, 2010
Page 2 of 5

I.

Recommended Actions
Board Approval of updated General Manager Job Description
Director Busck thanked the General Manager Executive Oversight Committee members for
their time and hard work.
Phil Washington, General Manager, discussed the newly revised job description.
reflective of the new operating culture here at RTD.

It is

Director Tayer offered a couple minor wording changes and asked they be included in the final
Board Report to go before the Board on July 20, 2010.
Director Busck asked General Manager, Phil Washington to add “work effectively with Elected
Officials” and “cost efficient” as Director Tayer suggested.
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve this updated job description for the General
Manager.
Motion:

Director Bagley made a motion to forward
the above action with suggested changes
to the July 20, 2010 Board meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

Christopher

seconded

the

The motion passed unanimously.

Board Policy on Goal Setting Process for the General Manager
Director Bagley gave a brief overview and mentioned that everything that relates to goal
setting comes out of the budgeting process. He stressed that item 6 is the most critical part
and the entire Board has to be engaged in the process.
Director Tayer was concerned about the language in item 1 which reads, Board and Staff will
have equal voice in the process to identify and prioritize goals. Director Tayer prefers that
Board and Staff should have an equal opportunity but it should be up to the Board to develop
the goals and move through the process.
Director Brohl offered language that all agreed on.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 13, 2010
Page 3 of 5

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt a policy (guidelines) for the General Manager
goal setting process.
Motion:

Director James made a motion to forward
the above action with the suggested
changes to the July 20, 2010 Board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Board Policy on the Evaluation Process for the General Manager’s Annual Performance Review
Director Christopher briefly discussed the nine steps involved in the action item. He
emphasized that feedback is needed on the second quarterly report.
Director Brohl thanked the General Manager for being fully engaged and also thanked the
whole committee.
Director Cohen suggested that the document be made gender neutral.
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt a policy (guidelines) for the process to perform
an annual evaluation of the General Manager performance that is inclusive of feedback from
all Board members and the process is transparent to the public.
Motion:

Director Bagley made a motion to forward
the above action items to the July 20,
2010 Board meeting agenda.

Second:

Director James seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Reduced Duration of Eagle P3 Project Concession
Brian Middleton and Rick Clarke presented this item to the board.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate a change to the Concession Agreement
with Denver Transit Partners (DTP) to amend the expiration date of the concession from
December 31, 2056 to December 31, 2044.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 13, 2010
Page 4 of 5

Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to
forward the above action items to the
July 20, 2010 Board meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Brohl seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

FasTracks Desktop Support Contractor
Carla Perez, Assistant General Manager, Administration presented this item to the Board.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
Dataman a 3 year contract with two 1 year options for IT Desktop Support Services (Contract
# 10DY001) in the amount of $246,000 not to exceed for 3 years. Dataman, an SBE
company, was selected through the competitive bid process. The contract is being brought to
the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of
1983.
Motion:
Director O’Boyle made a motion to
forward the above action items to the
July 20, 2010 Board meeting agenda.

II.

Second:

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

2011-2016 Transit Development Program
Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer presented this item to the Board. The purpose of
this board report is 1) for Staff to present the Board with the current draft of the Transit
Development Plan (TDP) 2) give the Board an opportunity to further discuss the size and
nature of the challenges contained in the draft TDP, and 3) provide the Board with options
to give Staff input on the recommended alternative to balance the TDP.
It was agreed that TDP be changed to Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
There was lengthy discussion amongst the Board
Chair Tayer asked that additional input be e-mailed to Terry Howerter.
Director Christopher offered an option 6 and said a new revenue system is needed.
Directors expressed concern over raising fares and the lower income families not being
able to afford it. They directed staff to take a look at this.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 13, 2010
Page 5 of 5

Director Tayer asked staff to come up with a new model that will be sensitive for the low
income riders, sales tax does not equate to the service we provide.
III.

Potential Revenue Source Review
Terry Howerter discussed this item with the board. The Board provided input to Staff
regarding various possible revenue and funding sources listed in the TCRP Report 120 that
it would like to see the District pursue. See Board Report for specifics.

IV.

May 2010 Financial Status Report
Terry Howerter presented the information regarding the May 2010 Financial Status Report.
Please see Board Report for specifics.

V.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

VI.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee will be August 10, 2010.

VII.

Adjourn
Chair Tayer declared the Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting adjourned
at 7:55 p.m.

