2025-03-13
Audit Committee
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. The Thursday, March 13 Audit Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 2:03 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless
you are recognized to speak. Please note that Committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be
held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-Time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.board@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who'd like access to live transcript of this message in
Spanish.
A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. And I'm now going to take role of
the committee members. Everybody hear me OK? Thank you. Were you waving at someone? OK. Jim
Brendel, I think he's absent today. Vince Buzek is here. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here, but retired from the title.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, you always keep the title, Bobby.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Committee Member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here. I apologize.
VINCE BUZEK: You're waving to somebody. OK, so we got four out of five. We do have a quorum. I also
see Director Guzman is present. Thank you for attending, Director Guzman. We're going to move into the
public comment section. At this time, I will open the public comment to anyone who would like to address
the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press Star-9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. Mr. Kroll, anybody have their hands raised or wishing to speak?

JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Buzek, no individuals are present with their hand raised. So there is no
one here to provide public comment. And no comments were emailed ahead of time relating to anything on
your agenda or last month's agenda.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. So with no participants in the queue, we're going to close the public comment
period at this time and move on to external entities reports. This month, there are no external entity reports
to come before the committee. We're going to move on to recommended actions. We've got two of them.
And the first action is the internal audit charter. So I'm looking for a motion for the Board of Directors to
approve the internal audit charter in accordance with the annual approval requirement. Is there a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Is there a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell, great. I would now like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, and
Matt Marino, Chief Audit Executive from RubinBrown, to present this item. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Committee Chair. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. And for each of
these items on the agenda, Matt Marino, Chief Audit Executive from RubinBrown, as well as Dave Haronik,
Audit Manager from RubinBrown, will be presenting. So, Matt, please go ahead.
MATT MARINO: OK, I'm hoping this is going to work. I'm hoping you're seeing Adobe. No?
DAVE HARONIK: Not yet.
MATT MARINO: Let's see. Pull up the screen. Kind of. Oh, there we go. OK. Hold on. Sometimes, multiple
screens is not as much help as it looks like it is. [CHUCKLES]

OK, there we go. That looks a lot better. OK, so I'll kick it off, and then Dave's going to go through it in a
little more detail.
VINCE BUZEK: Matt, we're not seeing anything here.
DAVE HARONIK: Might be on a different screen.
MATT MARINO: Because I had to hit the final share. There we go.
VINCE BUZEK: There we go.
MATT MARINO: There we go.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MATT MARINO: We spent a good amount of time on the internal audit charter a couple years ago. As part
of that, we always are monitoring changes in the standards outside of what we have already implemented.
So there was a change to the global IIA standards. So we did look at those, and we have worked on

implementing many of those recommendations into our charter. We had already really handled many of the
things that are now in the actual formal standards, such as who I report to, I need to have a direct line to
the Board and the Audit Committee, and all that sort of stuff. But I'll let Dave go through it in a little more
detail. We won't go through it in great detail because it's quite a bit more than that. But go ahead, Dave.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sorry, real quickly. Where did you see the Board report? Oh, there we go. OK. Thank
you.
MATT MARINO: Yep.
DAVE HARONIK: Right. Thanks, Matt. Well, the International Framework of International Auditing
Standards basically changed the global internal audit standards. Part of that was more, I guess, focusing
on the internal audit mandate. A lot of it around the authority, who internal audit reports to. A lot of those
were emphasis that they wanted internal audit departments to focus on.
So luckily, though, as we went through this two years ago, three years ago, we already addressed many of
these things, and so there was very minimal updates I think, from that perspective. So, if anything, there
was maybe some reordering of things because they do provide templates of sample internal audit charters.
And so we may have tried to align a little bit here or there, but I think the big thing, as Matt said, that really
needed to be called out, which we already had, was that internal audit reports to the Board, where we report
to the Audit Committee, which is a function of the Board.
So we are good there. And then if we go a couple pages to the back, there's a little bit more around the
internal audit services that we really-- there we go. Yeah, so a lot of this was just we already had, but it
moved in a little bit more of just wording of services that we do. And really, it's how internal audit will provide
value to the organization.
So more emphasis around that and the internal audit mandate is really what the focus was on. And as best
practice is anyway that we want to have this approved every year by the Board or the Audit Committee. So
really, more just as a function to keep the internal audit mandate fresh in everyone's mind. So we
respectfully submit that for approval.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that report. Are there any questions or comments from members of the
Committee or others? Director Catlin. You're still muted, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, good grief. I'm sorry. Thank you for all this. And actually, given that this Audit
Committee is still somewhat-- I wouldn't say infancy, but maybe toddlerhood, I think it's really important that
we keep this on the top of our minds as we move forward to make sure that we are reminded of it on an
annual basis. So I really appreciate this. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Committee Chair Buzek. Just really quickly, we did get a request from
Director Olenberger asking if we could provide a red line copy. And I just wanted to bring that up for
discussion. Dave and Matt, I know we mainly moved some things around, and then we also updated some
of the positions. For instance, the Chief Administrative Officer no longer exists. Assuming the Committee
approves this, it will then go to the Board for full approval. Would that be something that this Committee
would desire to be added to this package when it goes for approval to the full Board?
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Olenberger, did you want to respond? I think it was your request.

JOHN OLENBERGER: Sure. Yeah. I was thinking it would be helpful for the Committee, and perhaps for
the full Board, to see what those changes are. Can RubinBrown confirm that it really is nothing substantive?
And it sounds like that's the case. Just moving things from one place to another, maybe minor wording
changes, as Doug mentioned, an administrative position that no longer exists, maybe it's called something
else. Those little things like that because I remember reviewing it in detail last year and being fine with it.
And so long as there haven't been any substantive changes that I should take a look at, I would think it
would be fine. But I think that would be helpful to know what changed.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. So if there's any chance that we can get a red line
version before the Board meeting. If this passes for adoption, that won't change going forward to the Board.
But if the Board has that additional information, that might be helpful. Is that a possibility?
MATT MARINO: Absolutely. We can put together a red line.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. Thank you so much for that. OK, any other questions or comments with
regard to this matter? Seeing none, I'm going to ask if there are any no votes on this. Seeing and hearing
no no votes, this passes 4 to 0. We're going to move on to our second action item. And this is the proposed
2025-2026 internal audit plan. And I am seeking a motion for the Board of Directors to approve the proposed
2025-2026 internal audit plan. Do I have a motion?
JOHN OLENBERGER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Olenberger is our second. Buzek's a second. OK, and, Mr. MacLeod, I believe you said
that Mr. Haronik and Mr. Marino are going to present on this. So, gentlemen, please present this one next.
MATT MARINO: I think I see Mr. Olenberger's hand up.
VINCE BUZEK: I missed you there, John. Go ahead.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. You might be doing this anyway, but just to set the tone for your
presentation here, I believe we reviewed this in the last Audit Committee meeting. And I thought we had
approved it, perhaps subject to bumping up one of the items. I want to say it was transit scheduling, but I
thought we'd already approved this. So maybe if you could lead in with what the difference is between this
presentation in this Committee meeting and the one that we looked at last month.
MATT MARINO: Correct. Yes. Director Buzek, do you want to kick it off?
VINCE BUZEK: I thought this might have been a discussion item at the last meeting, and is now coming on
as the action item.
MATT MARINO: Yes, that is correct, Director Buzek. Do you want me to present real quick on some of the
changes that were implemented, and then answer from there? Or do we want to take Director Catlin's
question first?
VINCE BUZEK: Let's take Director Catlin's question. Go ahead, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. When this goes before the full Board, it might be helpful for context to include
in our packet the risk assessment that was done that really informed the creation of this audit plan. I just
think that that might provide good context. Just a thought.

VINCE BUZEK: Is that something that we can do?
MATT MARINO: We can consider that. I don't think that we've done that in the past. We did not do that last
year, if that's correct. Are you wanting us to add the risk rating out to the side of the audit plan, or are you
wanting the whole risk assessment?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I would just have it there for reference. And the reason why, I know we didn't do it
last year, but we have seven new Board members, and this is all going to be new to them. So I just thought
it would be helpful to let them know that this was developed in a very thoughtful way with the risk
assessment, and then an audit plan that reflected that. So it's just a suggestion. But since we do have
seven new Board members, I thought it might be-MATT MARINO: I can speak to that two different ways. I know I'm also scheduled to speak to our seven
new Board members, I believe, in June to go through the internal audit function, talk about the process and
all that sort of stuff as well. But, yes, we will work with Board Office and see if that would be something that
would be appropriate to put in the packet.
PEGGY CATLIN: And that might make for a richer discussion in June if they've had exposure to this more
than once.
MATT MARINO: Correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just a suggestion.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that, Director Catlin. Director Guzman, I think you're not on mute. If you
could mute yourself. OK, so we did see this just last month. I know Director Dishell had to miss that meeting.
But knowing Director Dishell, he has reviewed this packet. So if you could just give us a brief report on this,
that'd be great.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Director Buzek. We took the feedback from last month with you all, as well as
we met with the leadership team. And what we really look to do is optimize the timing of the audits to add
value and fit it in where it's meaningful to different processes. So, for example, we are still left the rail
operations, but the P-card program got pushed up because that was a initiative that was already happening
internally. So we're going to partner with staff internally to help make sure that process kicks off well.
And then, also, the staff scheduling an extra shift was something that staff and management thought would
be helpful as we enter the budgeting process to understand where our extra shift opportunities for
improvement might lie. And then, also, really fitting all of these around different monitoring that might be
happening by other outside organizations. So it was a little bit of a jigsaw puzzle of this is important, they
might be getting hit by another audit at that time, but we really tried to push most of those up.
And I know we did get one comment to consider moving the audit relating to the infrastructure facilities
preventative maintenance from January 26 into Q3, Q4 of '24. I'll work with leadership to figure out if that
makes sense. I know that they are really in the process of ramping that program up, so we really wanted to
give them some time to get the preventative maintenance program wrapped up so we can monitor them
against their improved way of doing it. But we'll take that into consideration and try and push it up as early
as possible because it is uber-important. Maintenance of our entire fleet and facilities is very important.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. And I think that was a request from Director Brendel. And I think we'll go ahead and
hopefully get this through as it stands. We can always bring it back if that change is going to happen, and
modify it that way. So does that conclude your presentation, or is there more?
MATT MARINO: That's it. And really, as far as the audit plan, much consistent with last year, there were
times throughout the year where we had to move things around. But we'll report back to you at the regular
audit committees if things are getting moved from the original timing, why that is, make sure that that makes
sense to be transparent about the process. But this is the plan as it currently lies.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you, Mr. Marino. Are there any questions or comments? Mr. Olenberger?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. I thought I might have brought up the potential for bumping up the
service scheduling. I know there was one that I thought might be more beneficial to do sooner rather than
later. And I thought it may have been service scheduling that deals with our actual service to the constituents
and how frequently the bus comes, and where it goes, and what stops, and all those kind of things. I thought
that's what I was talking about last time. And I see that still scheduled for mid-2026.
MATT MARINO: So one thing that I omitted to discuss during last meeting, and there is multiple parts to
the service scheduling. So there is an audit that's pretty much in the wrap-up phases now that will hit on
many of the elements of service scheduling. And then this other audit is another part of that. So you're
going to get much of the information I think you're looking for with this upcoming audit as far as are we
adhering to our policies and so on with regard to service scheduling.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. And maybe could you differentiate at an executive level as to if we just did one
now, what the difference is between the one that we have scheduled for next June and the one that we're
wrapping up now?
MATT MARINO: Yeah, it's just looking at different parts of it. So I would have to go back and look at the
service scheduling. So let's see. Really, this one's mostly got to do with the adherence to our standards,
the one that we're going to be reporting on. And then this one is really coming back to what sort of tools are
we using, and are we doing that? And really, it's going to follow up on some of the stuff that we're going to
report on with regard to the current service scheduling as well.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, any other questions or comments? Seeing none, we'll call for the vote. Are there
any no votes? And seeing none, that passes 4 to 0. Next, we're going to move on to discussion items. And
we have one discussion item, and that is the internal audit update. Mr. MacLeod, who's presenting on this
one?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Buzek. It will be Matt Marino. It does involve the Finance Department,
so I might be chiming in along the way. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Go right ahead.
MATT MARINO: OK, Thank you. So this audit, we were looking at the financial performance metrics that
are produced by the Finance and Accounting Department that are produced for the website and other
documents. And so we did issue an overall rating of satisfactory. So this audit was conducted in Q4 of '24
and was issued just in late February, so that's why we're talking about it today. So overall, we had a couple
different things we had to bring to your attention.

So we had two moderate observations and one low process improvement observation. So the first
observation that is rated at moderate priority has to do with the calculation of a couple of different metrics
that are on the website. And so we noted there were a couple errors in the calculation. And so those were
given a moderate priority of correcting that. Obviously, we want to produce accurate financial metrics so
that when people are evaluating our financial performance and operations, they are using the most accurate
data possible.
So management has provided the action plan. They are in agreement. And I believe at this point, it should
already be corrected, so we'll be following up very shortly. Observation two has to do with a couple of
additional metrics that were reported on the RTD website with regard to our credit rating, some differences
between our budget and the performance dashboard, some of that sort of stuff, as well as operating
expense per boarding.
We made a recommendation with regard to that. That one also will be targeted to be completed here in the
next two days. So that one as well. And the last one has to do with if you're familiar with the Office of the
State Auditor and the Colorado State Auditors, they do financial health ratios. So there's nine different ratios
that they typically prescribe to governments to calculate and monitor themselves against, as well as the
State Auditor does monitor them against. So we were doing several of them, but there were additional ratios
that we were not calculating.
And so we're recommending that those additional ratios be evaluated and calculated. That's really all we
have for recommendations with regard to that. Really, overall pretty small recommendations in the grand
scheme of things. I would be remiss if I did not mention this audit was primarily performed by our
subcontractor, Dietrich & Associates. So they did the vast majority of the heavy lifting and the monitoring
with regard to that. And we really appreciate their contribution to the overall audit plan as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you for that update. Mr. MacLeod, do you have anything to add?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the opportunity, Chair Buzek. I just wanted to mention that this is a great
partnership in getting RubinBrown to take a second look at this. Thought it would provide some additional,
I guess, independent look at how we're actually calculating these ratios since they are on our performance
dashboard, we report them in the monthly financial statements, and they also affect the performance
evaluation of the General Manager. So I believe this will add some strength to the numbers that we're
reporting. As we get these recommendations to make these corrections, I think it'll add some credibility, I
suppose, from an independent look standpoint. And that's all I just wanted to add to that, so thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, Mr. MacLeod. And thanks, Mr. Marino for the update. Are there any
questions or comments? Mr. Olenberger?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. I found this very interesting being on the Audit Committee of the RTD,
and all the stuff that I've learned in the past year or so that I've been on here. One of the more interesting
things I think I've learned is that it does not actually cost $2.75 as a rider to ride the RTD. I just always
assumed that that's what it cost. And to find out that it costs $12.65 per boarding is very interesting to me.
I just wanted to know how that compares against other major transit areas.
And I think some of you know I'm from the Boston area. I'd ride the T, the subway. And I just looked it up.
Their T fare for the subway is $2.40. Not so much the fares itself, but the cost per boarding. I'd be kind of
interested if we've compared that against other major agencies and where the RTD stands.

VINCE BUZEK: Michael Guzman. Well, let me take Mr. MacLeod first, Michael, if that's OK. Mr. MacLeod,
go right ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question, Mr. Olenberger. Yes, most of the agencies that
are somewhat similar are very close to in range to the cost per rider. That is a blended cost of all of our
modes. So if you were to drill down and look at buses, costs per rider, it's generally cheaper than rail just
because rail has so much infrastructure involved and we have depreciation going into that calculation. So
it makes it difficult to compare one-to-one.
We actually had a pretty big discussion about this just the other evening at the Finance and Planning
Committee because one of the asks from the Office of the State Auditor was to not only show our ratios on
a trended basis for RTD, cost per rider, for instance, but also compared to what they were referring to as
peer agencies. And the discussion internally has been there's really no peer agencies to RTD because of
our geographic size, different characteristics about the population, cost of living, and then the modes of
service just for some examples.
So it's really difficult to compare on a one-to-one basis, but it's a valid question that we're addressing
internally about, how do we present that and make it comparative for users to understand? But just from a
general perspective, it's kind of in that same general range, $12 to $15 per rider.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. Yeah, I would think that would be a good performance metric. A lot of different
variables go into it, but, to me, that seems like a good performance. If we're a lot higher than other agencies,
do we need to try to cut costs in certain areas if we're higher bus-to-bus or rail-to-rail? That kind of thing.
But I do understand that it might be hard to do apples-to-apples on some of these things.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for the question. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. We did discuss what the cost ratio is for a person boarding or using our
system. So I just want to say thank you for catching the mistake and being forthright about it so that we can
have the correct information going out. Really good work. I appreciate it. From the Finance and Planning
Committee, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Guzman. Are there any other questions or comments? Seeing none,
thanks again for the internal audit update information. We're going to move on to other matters. Are there
any other matters to come before this committee? And, Director Guzman, your hand is still raised. OK. Any
other matters to come before the committee? OK, seeing none, our next meeting date is scheduled for April
10, 2025. My notes say that we might not be meeting then. More likely be meeting in May when the annual
comprehensive financial report could be ready for our review. Director Catlin, go right ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Buzek. I have a conflict on April 10. And I was going to do my best to
try and work around that to participate. But if by chance we're able to move it to May, that would be great
for me. But it's not all about me.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, come on, Peggy. It is. Mr. Kroll, were you going to comment on this?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I had touched base with Doug MacLeod this morning on the status of the April
meeting, and it seems like it's not going to be needed. So the May meeting is very much the most likely
time you all would meet again. And one of the big things that could be available at that time for your review
is the annual comprehensive financial report.

VINCE BUZEK: Good. OK, so a good deal, Peggy. Excellent. OK, seeing no other matters, everything's
done, we're going to be adjourning.
JACK KROLL: I have one thing, Director Buzek. And my apologies because I should have written this into
your script. I do believe this is likely Doug MacLeod's last meeting working with the Audit Committee. And
so I wanted to take a moment, or encourage a moment, on behalf of Committee members and the Board
to thank him for his exemplary service.
VINCE BUZEK: And any other Committee members that would want to say something, please come off
mute and thank the wonderful Doug MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: It's really not necessary, but thank you, Jack, and the Committee as well. Really
appreciate it. I'll just start. I really appreciate working with all of you, especially our external members, for
your dedication and time commitment to this endeavor. It's been super helpful. Peggy, Bobby, you were
here from the outset really pushing this. Really want to thank you for the success of the Audit Committee
and the internal audit function. I will be around for a little bit. We'll be working on a transition to a new CFO,
or an acting CFO at least. I'll be on paid time off to help out with the transition for a couple of months. You
may not see my face, but I'll be in the background. If anybody needs me, please, please reach out. But
thank you for the opportunity to speak.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Doug. Bobby?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you, Doug. Just a very hearty thank you. You do an incredible job of making
very complex financial calculations and putting them in layman's terms, which is not easy to do. A, not easy
to do the work, to be able to understand it, to get it right, and, B, not easy to then dumb it down for people
like us.
And it's just your dedication to the agency, your willingness to always take the time to meet with Board
members, to explain it, to explain it with a very cool, calm, collected head when we were maybe not always
necessarily reflecting that is just so appreciated and such a model of leadership, and gives us all something
to work towards. So thank you and congratulations.
VINCE BUZEK: Well said. Thanks. Peggy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I echo what Bobby said. Doug, you're going to be missed, but I
have to thank you, especially. You've known for the last seven years that this was really top of mind for me
to get internal audit at a place that we could hold it up and say, yes, we're getting there. And it was largely
in part to your efforts, as well as other key staff. But I just wanted to thank you so much because I feel so
much better about where we are in this audit space than where we were seven years ago. So my hearty
thanks. And best wishes for your future, whatever that may be.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Catlin.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Peggy. John.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I just wanted to send my thanks as well. Doug, I've only been on the Committee
here for a year or so. The Committee has only been around for a year, but I've really enjoyed meeting you
in person. I've enjoyed participating in these and your participation in these, your professionalism, your
general calm personality. I know one of the other Board members brought that up as well. It's been great

working with you. Came to a little bit of a shock to me when I heard you were leaving last month. And you'll
definitely be missed, so congratulations and good luck in your future endeavors.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you very much. Really appreciate that.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, John and thanks, Doug. Everybody here echoes those sentiments. I'm sure
a couple of us have been through a couple iterations of CFOs, and you were a breath of fresh air, but
thanks for that. OK, nothing further. Let's adjourn this meeting at 2:35 PM. Thanks, everybody.
JACK KROLL: Bye, everyone.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Bye.
MATT MARINO: Bye.

