Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 19, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
June 19, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, and Walker.
Director Anderson, Deadwyler, and Williams.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Frank Buczkowski, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, James Cook, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary Googins, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Robert Rynerson,
Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Greg Smith, Walt
Stringer, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington, Phil Washington and Don
Young

Others Present:

Gary Forbes – FTL, Carlos Gonsalez – FTM, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001,
Lee Johnson – FTCC, Darla Ortiz - FTM
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 5:58 p.m.

Recommended Action
 August 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2012 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of
approximately $517,000 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 2 of 7

Jesse Carter shared that in regards to the 2012 Service Changes there is only 1
change that will have an impact on one of our ADA constituent, Dr. Gross. That
route is route 88. RTD has been in contact with Mr. Gross and have shared with him
options including Access-a-Ride and the ability to still use route 40 and 43.
Director Tobiassen commented that constituents are complaining about route 169
(i.e. that the bus is not large enough to hold the number of riders) and he suggested
perhaps an articulated bus for the Saturday run.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
June 26, 2012 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Daly seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously.
Directors Anderson, Deadwyler and
Williams were absent from this vote.
 West corridor Service Plan – April 2013
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the West Corridor Service Plan package as revised and summarized
in Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
Bruce Abel shared the number of the access-a-ride users affected by the West
Corridor plan. He stated the last reported number affected was 50 back in April; in
May that number reduced to 30; and as of now the number has dropped to 3 that
will be losing access and does not have access to Call-n-Ride; The remaining 19 will
be losing access but does have access to Call-n-Ride options.

Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
June 26, 2012 Board meeting.

Second:

Director James seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Daly comments that on the Jeffco
Government Center summary we lost 676
boarding and have a high number of
complaints. He expressed his hesitation in
adopting this plan. Bruce Abel responded
by saying that they have learned many
lessons from the implementation of the

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 3 of 7

West Corridor and South West regarding
the Call-n-Ride and moving into a flex
route.
Director Hoy asked if the Wheat Ridge deal
was worked out. Robert Rynerson stated
yes, it will continue to run during school
hours.
Director Cohen shared that he has received
significant feedback from his constituency
base including the municipality and key
stakeholders. There is much trepidation
and anxiety over the proposed plan
especially as you take into consideration
that call-n-ride will affect not only the eastwest routes but also the north-south
arterial. He requested that this item gets
pulled from the agenda and allow more
time for a study of options.
Amendment to
Primary motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to pull the
West Corridor Service Plan from the June
agenda and bring it back for consideration
in the July agenda.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Amended
Motion:

The amended motion passed twelve (12) in
favor and 0 against.

The West Corridor Plan is pulled from the June agenda.
Director Bagley requested to see the economics associated with
the modification of routes.


Paratransit Service Contract Extensions and Funding
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to extend the
existing contracts with First Transit for call center services, Global Transportation,
and CUSA for the provision of Access-a-Ride services and with MV
Transportation and VIA Mobility (formerly Special Transit) for the provision of
Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride services for a period of no more than twelve (12)
months, at a not-to-exceed cost of $31,719,781.00 for Access-s-Ride service
and $5,437,500.00 for fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $37,157,281.00
for Access-a-Ride and a not-to-exceed cost of $3,792,932.00 for Call-n-Ride
service and $710,659.00 for fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of
$4,503,591.00 for Call-n-Ride.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 4 of 7

Bruce Abel gave a brief overview of the Paratransit Service Contract Extension.
He indicated that we are considering a non dedicated model but currently there is
not another agency of our size who is using this model. This model is being
implemented in Dallas. We are hoping to benefit from their lessons learned so we
are asking for a 1 year extension to allow time to properly study the new nondedicated model.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to forward
this item to the full Board at the June 26,
2012 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Tayer inquired to Bruce, what
concerns or issues does RTD anticipate?
Bruce Abel responded that the size or our
operations. We question if given the size of
our city, we will able to provide the non
dedicated fleet to provide the service.
Chair Kemp stated that he supports the
“can’t put all your eggs in the same
basket” approach and will support this
action. Several other Directors stated they
were also in support of the approach.
Director McMullen asked for clarification of
how large in square footage is the ADA
population? Bruce Abel responded that we
do not have that information readily
available but will get the information to the
Board.
Director Tobiassen asked for confirmation
that the Board is being asked to delay this
contract to evaluate the process to a
greater magnitude before making a final
decision and writing an RFP? We need to
get a handle on a program where the cost
is continuing to spiral out of control. Bruce
responded, yes that is correct.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously.
Directors Anderson, Deadwyler and
Williams were absent from this vote.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 5 of 7



Recommended Smart Media Related Fare Policy Adjustments
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in
Attachment A, to take effect upon implementation of Smart Media Technology
fare products beginning January 1, 2013.
Bruce Abel gave a brief overview of the Smart Media Related Fare Policy
Adjustments.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
June 26, 2012 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Several Board members expressed their
opinions on some of the proposed changes
in this policy, especially around what was
the appropriate time for a round trip pass.
Director James concluded the discussion
by stating that staff will pick a plan and if
it works, that is good. If not, we will
change it.
Committee Chair Tobiassen called for the
question.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with ten (10) in favor
(Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen, and
Walker) and two (2) against (Bagley and
O’Boyle).
Directors Anderson, Deadwyler and
Williams were absent from this vote.
 Recommended Smart Media Technology Fare Enforcement Policy
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the recommended smart media technology fare enforcement policy,
as outlined in Attachment A, to take effect upon implementation of Smart Media
Technology fare products beginning January 1, 2013.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to forward
this item to the full Board at the June 26,
2012 Board meeting.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 6 of 7

Second:

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously.
Directors Anderson, Deadwyler and
Williams were absent from this vote.
II.

III.

Updates
Chair Kemp acknowledged several contractors in attendance and thanked them all for
coming to the meetings and for all that they do in conjunction with RTD.


2012 Fare Enforcement Law Changes
Bruce Abel indicated this update was provided in the board packet and would answer
any questions if there were any. There were no comments or concerns on this
matter.



South JeffCo Call-n-Ride Update
Bruce Abel indicated that a quick update was included in the board packet. Director
Bagley expressed his appreciation to staff for all their hard work.



Community Pilot Project Program Proposal
Bruce Abel indicated this update was provided in the board packet and would answer
any questions if there were any. There were no comments or concerns on this
matter.



Radio-CAD/AVL Project Status Update
Gary Googins indicated that all projects are going well and that we are on track with
all the installation of the Radio-CAD/AVL. The entire installation will be completed by
October of 2012.



SMT Project Status Update
Bruce Abel indicated this update was provided in the board packet and would answer
any questions if there were any. There were no comments or concern on this matter.



Quarterly reports
Bruce Abel indicated these updates were provided in the board packet and would
answer any questions if there were any. There were no comments or concerns on
any of these matters.



Customer Complaint Analysis
Bruce Abel noted that this update was provided in the board packet and would
answer any questions if any. There were no comments or concerns regarding this
matter.

Other Matters

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 7 of 7

Director Tobiassen indicated that he was interested in having Dr. Gross who is already
traveling to Dallas on other business, speak to the Dart people on the proposed
paratransit model change.
Next Meeting Date – July 10, 2012
IV.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned to Financial Administration and Audit at 7:53 p.m.

