Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 13, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

May 13, 2010

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 13, 2010
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez, 2nd Vice-Chair Busck
Subject:

I.

Board Member Absent:

Secretary Bagley and Treasurer Tayer

Other Board Members
Present:

Director James

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, Phil Washington

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:10 p.m.

Recommended Action: Revised Policy on Lifetime Bus Passes for Spouses
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to approve
moving the resolution forward to the full Board
for approval at the May 18, 2010 meeting.
Director Martinez seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:
II.

The Motion PASSED.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Phil Washington presented the May Board meeting agenda.
Motion:

Director Martinez made the motion to move the
May Board meeting agenda as amended to the
full Board for vote on May 18, 2010.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 13, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 6


Unanimous Consent


Construction Contract Award to White Construction Group for LRT
Facility Enhancements
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee,
to execute all documents necessary to award a construction contract
to White Construction Group in the amount of $4,894,000 for the
LRT Facility Enhancements project. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks Light Rail
Maintenance Facility Project.



Reciprocal Land Swap Agreement with CDOT
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to
negotiate and execute a proposed Letter Agreement between the
Colorado Department of Transportation and the Regional
Transportation District for the Reciprocal Use of Right of Way for
Transportation Facilities confirming the verbal agreement regarding
CDOT and RTD’s use of each other’s right of way.



Request for Approval of RTD 2009 Annual Report to Denver
Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors approve submittal of the RTD 2009
Annual Report on FasTracks to Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG). This report summarizes the changes to
the FasTracks Plan, including financing and alignment, which
have been approved by the Board in 2009 and early 2010. These
changes are included and referenced in the Annual Report.



Approval to Adopt the Northwest Rail Corridor Final Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the adoption of the Northwest Rail
Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation (EE) document.



FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks
Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors appoint one member to the
Committee to fill a vacancy created by resignation.



Contract Amendment for Duncan, Ostrander & Dingess, P.C
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee,
to amend contract 17F0034A with Duncan, Ostrander & Dingess,
P.C. for the provision of legal services specializing in eminent domain
for the West Corridor Light Rail Project and additional transit projects

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 13, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 6
to increase the contract amount by $1,000,000, for a new total
contract amount of $2,700,000.
This contract was originally
awarded January 15, 2008 for an initial three years plus two one
year options to renew. The contract is in the third year of the initial
performance period which began January 15, 2010 and will end
January 15, 2011 with the ability to extend for two one-year options.
Funding for this contract increase is included in the 2010 Adopted
Budget for the East Corridor, Gold Line, Northwest Rail, Systems
Improvements, and US 36 BRT – Phase I projects.


Contract Amendment for Property Acquisition and Relocation
Assistance Services Contracts; Universal Field Services, Inc., Briggs
Field Services, Inc., and H. C. Peck and Associates, Inc.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee,
to amend contracts 17DH014 with Universal Field Services, Inc.,
17DH001 with Briggs Field Services, Inc. and 17DH013 with H. C.
Peck and Associates, Inc. for the provision of property acquisition,
relocation assistance, property management and planning services for
the West Corridor Light Rail Project and additional transit projects
including the US 36 Phase I BRT and the Eagle P3 projects to
increase each contract amount by $1,000,000, for a new total
contract amount of $2,065,000, $2,000,000 and $2,550,000
respectively. These contracts were originally awarded September 14,
2007 for an initial two years plus three one-year options to renew.
The contracts are in the first option period.
Funding for these contract increases is included in the 2010 Adopted
Budget for the East Corridor, Gold Line, Northwest Rail, Systems
Improvements, and US 36 BRT – Phase I projects.



2009 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s
audited financial reports relating to the year ended December 31,
2009 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District’s independent
auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.



State Audit, Item #11
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopt the revision of the reporting
structure for the internal audit function to improve communication
procedures and independence of the department in light of the State
Audit Examination.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 13, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 6


Budget Transfer for West Corridor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $20,000,000 from the
West Corridor Parking Garage project to the West Corridor project
budget. This transfer would accelerate funding originally programmed
in 2011 for the West Corridor project into 2010. Funding for the
West Corridor parking garages would be replenished in the 2010
Amended Budget to allow design-bid packages for the garages to be
issued in late 2010.



RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2010 Revised policy on Lifetime
Bus Passes for Spouses



August 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed August
2010 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and
comment.

Recommended Action

U.S. 36 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery
(TIGER) Grant Contingent Commitment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors offer a contingent fiscal commitment of $30
million to leverage the $10 million awarded to the U.S. 36 Corridor
project through the “Transportation Investment Generating Economic
Recovery” (TIGER) grant program into a significant, $160 million
project, based on the following contingencies:
a.
b.
c.

The Eagle P3 project financial close matches or betters
the established budget as anticipated.
The balance of $130 million project funding is found
and committed to by the by the loan deadline.
In order to demonstrate local financial support to U.S.
DOT and to satisfy Intergovernmental Agreements
(IGAs) to commit $769,231 in local match via cash or
in-kind cost reductions to RTD’s share of the project.

Through preparation of the U.S. 36 Environmental Impact Statement
(EIS), the U.S. 36 communities, in concert with RTD and the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), have been planning
improvements to the U.S. 36 Corridor for the last six years. The
planning efforts have culminated in the recommendation of multimodal improvements ready for implementation. Funding for the $30
million is included in the FasTracks Financial Plan in the U.S. 36 BRT
– Phase 2 project and is programmed for expenditure in 2010 and
2011, which meets the fiscal obligation timeframe requirements for
TIGER.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 13, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 6
The Committee discussed some concerns around if this action violates the hold
harmless agreement. There appear different interpretations but this action
does not take money from any one corridor to satisfy another. The Committee
felt this was an opportunity to leverage existing funds for the greater regional
good.
III.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
Motion:
Director Busck made a motion to move
into Executive Session for the purpose to
discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e) DUSPA
Negotiations.
Director Martinez seconded the motion.
Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

The committee adjourned into Executive Session at 12:20 p.m.
The committee resumed into regular Executive Committee meeting at 1:15
p.m.
IV.

Eagle P-3 Update
General Manager Washington reviewed the plans for the May 18 th presentation
at the Paramount Theatre. Staff had prepared some talking points which have
been reviewed with the full Board.

V.

Next Steps from Board Advance
Board members and Senior Leadership Team participated in a Board Advance
Planning workshop on Saturday, April 17th in which they established a list of
priorities which will drive the 2011 budget.
The Executive Committee
discussed; what are the next steps to bring more definition and crystallize the
goals so the finance team can apply to the budget.
The Committee decided that the General Manager will re-introduce the top 4
priorities at the next available Study Session with information on his key
milestone deliverables associated with each of these priorities. If there is
general consensus (nod of heads by at least 8 of the Board members), no
further action should be required. If it appears much discussion may be needed
to ferret out the milestone deliverables or associated policies, a small task force
consisting of Board members and staff may be created. It is anticipated that
the priority around equity and efficiency in service changes may require a task
force to move the discussion forward.

VI.

Proposal for Assistance on Governance Manual
Paula Perdue presented a proposal to the Executive Committee for support to
create a Governance Manual which is recommendation number 13 of the State
Auditor findings. The Committee requested in the April 15, 2010 meeting, that
Paula provide this proposal. A key component of this proposal was the work
scope and cost to create an electronic document. Paula also provided a
recommended outline of what this Governance Manual will include.
The committee approved the proposal and gave Paula authorization to proceed.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 13, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 6 of 6
VII.

Other Matters
Chair Kemp shared that we will recognize the International Bus Roadeo
participants at the June Board meeting. He asked the General Manager to
follow up with his staff regarding this.
General Manager Phil Washington shared that there will be opportunities for
new grants which his team is currently reviewing. An immediate opportunity is
with the TIGER II Grant where RTD plans to submit a joint application with
CDOT that will include our workforce initiatives. We will need to move smartly
and quickly on these opportunities still following our mantra to build as much
as we can as fast as we can. This ties in well with our construction ready
strategy.

VIII.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:50 p.m.

