1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
September 11, 2014 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
In attendance were Chair Sisk, 1 st Vice-Chair Hoy, Second Vice-Chair James, and
Secretary Walker.

II.

Committee member Absent:

Treasurer Tobiassen

Other Board members Present:
Others in Attendance:

Director Bagley
AGM Reed for General Manager Washington, Paula
Perdue

September Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Sisk noted that all of the items had passed committee unanimously and there was
not much discussion. He did note that we would be recognizing the finance group with
the GFOA award. He also noted that an executive session has been added to the agenda.
Scott Reed commented briefly about the executive session item and noted it will be
discussed in the executive session on Tuesday. No details were provided.

Motion:

Director Walker made the motion to approve the
September Agenda for the Board meeting.

Second:

Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with the full committee in
agreement.

Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent
A. Contract Amendment; 2nd year 2014 option 2013-2015 Street Improvements &
Shelter Installations Contract # 33DM005
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second year of a three-year
option contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with
Manion Construction, Inc. for $371,711.30. Funding for this contract amendment is
provided by the annual 2014 – 2015 Engineering Expense Budgets.

B. Transfer Funds to Support the Light Rail Gearbox Overhaul Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to transfer
$676,745 from the event recorder capital project (10360) to the Light Rail Vehicle
Maintenance campaign expense line item.
C. Contract Extension for First Southwest Financial Advisors
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to authorize the second
option year of the contract with First Southwest (FSC) for Financial Advisory Services,
which will extend the performance period through December 31, 2015 and increase
the total contract amount from $480,000 to $600,000. Funding for the 2015 option
is included in the FasTracks financial plan, and will be included in the 2015 expense
budget for FasTracks.


Recommended Actions



Motion to Move Into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402((4)(b) and (e) Collective Bargaining Agreement – Health and Welfare
issues and pending arbitration, matters subject to negotiation and legal issues

III.

CCABA Membership - Bill James
Chair Sisk indicated that the Executive Committee would be considering a request from
Director James for membership to the Cherry Creek Area Business Alliance (CCABA). He
asked Paula Perdue to provide some background on the organizational membership
process.
Paula explained that in August, 2011, the Board had approved a policy on organizational
memberships. Director James was the sponsor for this effort. The policy is broken down
by individual membership and agency membership. Under the individual membership

process, a Director may bring an organization forth that may have relevance to his/her
District but not necessarily to the agency. The Executive committee will review the
request, try to determine if it meets the criteria and make a decision for approval. The
Executive committee can only approve requests for individual memberships. Requests for
agency approval go through a different process that involves the General Manager and the
Chair of the Board. Records on the individual memberships are retained in the Board office
and these memberships will be renewed on an annual basis. The Board office has a
budget of $5000 for organizational membership.
Director James shared that CCABA is a relatively new organization in Cherry Creek
focused on businesses in the area. The organization has expressed interest in enhanced
mobility as they are concerned about the impact of congestion and access in the area. He
thinks they are a compliment to the Cherry Creek Chamber of Commerce that focuses
more on business networking and events whereas the CCABA is more focused on
business development. He sees this organization as akin to some of the other
organizations the agency support such as SELR and ACED and thinks this organization
should be a candidate for agency membership.
Director Hoy suggested that we focus initially on this organization under the purview of
the Executive Committee for the first year. The determination of whether it should be
agency membership can be determined at that time.
Additional discussion occurred around the nature of CCABA, if there are any divisiveness
between CCABA and the Cherry Creek Chambers and if any of the services that they are
providing is redundant in that area. The committee agreed that CCABA is a good
candidate for membership under the individual membership policy.
IV.

Motion to Approve CCABA Membership
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve the request
for individual membership to CCABA in the amount of
$975 membership fees payable from the Board
organizational membership account.

Second:

Director Walker seconded this motion.

Discussion:

Director James abstained from the voting since this
was his request under consideration.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with three of the Executive
Committee members in favor.

Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
V.

Other Matters






Director Hoy expressed some concern over if the fare simplification study will
dovetail with the SMART card operation. He offered as an example that it might be
good to consider tying the fare structure with time of day discounts when the
buses are not full. Chair Sisk shared his understanding there is no peak on or peak
off service and this type of decision would require careful consideration. Director
James also expressed that becomes more of a transactional costs and staff
currently does not have the capacity to do this. Director Bagley expressed he
believes this makes the fare structure more complex and he could not support it.
Scott Reed indicated that the plans are the fare study will absolutely dovetail with
the SMART card. There are some key components from the fare study that need to
be in place early enough to be programmed in before the SMART card is in full
operation.
Director Bagley indicated he has been studying the Robert’s Rules of Order and
suggested that a copy of the manual that he has should be ordered for the full
Board.
Chair Sisk expressed that Tuesday night’s meeting was entirely too long. We need
to look for ways to consolidate or become more efficient in our meetings. He also
stated he thought it was discourteous for our presenters, Leeds School of Business
to have to wait that long to present. He called and offered his apologies to the
Leeds School.
Others expressed their concerns about the meetings as well. Director Hoy stated
the real problem is with the attention span and that the span starts to wander after
a period of time. Director James noted that one variable that we have on our
agendas is the updates. Perhaps the Committee Chairs can use more discretion in
how we address updates. Director Bagley expressed his frustration that one of the
most important roles for the Board is the budget but that five members had left by
the time it was presented. He agreed with Chair Sisk about having guest
presenters to wait and suggested that the budget/finance should have gone first.
Paula Perdue asked to respond and indicated that this issue of meetings and
schedules is quite complex and complicated. There are so many variables that go
into a meeting. Who would have known that a meeting with only two action items
would have taken 4 -1/2 hours? Nevertheless, it is incumbent on the Chair of the
respective committees to manage his/her meetings. It is not as simple as trying to

move updates around on the agenda. We have tried a few things including putting
updates on the General Manager’s GMR report but few Board members seem to
read them. Sometimes updates are needed in preparation of an item that will be
coming forth for a vote. Updates need to be timely. There is no rule that says just
because an update is on the agenda that it has to be reviewed. We could have
used General Manager’s Washington process of “any questions” and moved some
of these items smartly along. Pertaining to fewer meetings, no one wants to have
a meeting if they are not needed. We are a very active agency with lots of things
going on. We try our best to be fair and equitable as we schedule meetings.
Meetings are rotated in the interest of fairness to committee chairs, staff and
everyone else involved. Sometimes Operations goes first and sometimes F&AA
goes first. It must be an equitable process for everyone. She is in the process of
preparing the 2015 calendar and can say we have a month next year where due to
conflicts with conferences, etc., we do not have enough time on the calendar in
that month for a Board meeting. She is working on a solution for this and other
factors that weigh on the calendaring process. As an example, new Board
members in the month of January are slated for 10 meetings that include the
normal committee/board meetings. The number and frequency of meetings that we
have is excessive but until we are in a maintenance mode, our options, outside of
Committee Chairs showing more diligence in managing the meetings, are limited.
VI.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 1:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

