Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

July 15, 2010

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 15, 2010
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Second Vice-Chair Busck, Secretary Bagley & Treasurer
Tayer.
Subject:

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp and Vice-Chair Martinez

Other Board Members
Present:

I.

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, Phil Washington

Call to Order:

Second Vice Chair Busck called the meeting to order at
12:08 p.m.

Recommended Action: RESOLUTION NO.____ SERIES OF 2010 Honoring the
RTD International Light Rail Roadeo Team
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve
moving the resolution honoring the RTD Light
Rail Roadeo participants in the International
Roadeo in Vancouver, BC.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
the Motion:
II.

Director Tayer suggested additional language
that would tie the flow together.

The Motion PASSED.

July Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Phil Washington presented the July Board meeting agenda.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move the
July Board meeting agenda as amended to the
full Board for vote on July 20, 2010.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 6
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
Vote on
the Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


RESOLUTION NO.____ SERIES OF
International Light Rail Roadeo Team



Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding for the Table Mesa Pedestrian
Bridge
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute all documents necessary to receive Senate Bill 1 grant
funding in the amount of $3,500,000 from the Colorado Department
of Transportation (CDOT), Division of Transportation Development for
the Table Mesa pedestrian bridge, and pay the required local match in
an amount of $3,500,000. Funding for the project is included in the
2010 Adopted Budget for the US 36 BRT Phase 2 project.



Authorization for the Transfer of Land Sale Proceeds – Denver Union
Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer to the
Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) land sale proceeds
from parcels sold by RTD at Denver Union Station (DUS) and Market
Street to be used for the DUS Project construction funding.



Grant of Permanent Easement for Utility Facilities to the City of
Lakewood, Approximately 13 th Place and Kipling Street
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to convey a permanent
easement for utility facilities containing approximately 1,465 square
feet plus improvements to the City of Lakewood for the construction,
operation and maintenance of the City’s Intersection Improvement
Project to be placed in part upon RTD property located at
approximately West13 th Place and Kipling Street.



Resolution Regarding Property Acquisition, Exchange of Property and
Indemnification of Claims for Union Pacific Railroad’s Burnham Lead
and sections of Moffat, Greeley and Limon Subdivisions
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the attached resolution. The resolution
authorizes the General Manager or his designee to enter into Purchase
and Sale Agreements for (i) portions of the Union Pacific Railroad’s
(UPRR) Burnham Lead for RTD’s West Corridor; (ii) portions of the
UPRR Limon and Greeley Subdivisions for RTD’s East Corridor; and,

2010

Honoring

the

RTD

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 6
(iii) portions of UPRR’s Moffat Subdivision for RTD’s Gold Line. It
further authorizes the General Manager to transfer exchange property
needed by UPRR or to authorize payment to UPRR for exchange
property UPRR has acquired directly for its relocation, and to enter
into
Relocation and Construction
Agreements
(Relocation
Agreements) for relocation of existing track and facilities and
construction of new facilities necessary to restore functionality to the
UPRR.
The General Manager is also authorized to enter into
Operations and Maintenance Agreements (O&M Agreements) for the
East and Gold Line Corridors. The resolution authorizes capital
expenditures for these Agreements in an amount estimated at $84.5
million (eighty four million five hundred thousand dollars). Funding
for the agreements is included in the 2010 Amended Budget for the
FasTracks capital program.
RTD by the attached Resolution waives sovereign immunity to the
extent it may be applicable up to the amount of available insurance
and agrees to indemnify the UPRR for claims arising out of RTD’s
ownership and/or use of the acquired property, and obligates RTD to
purchase insurance for various types of claims. Liability insurance in
an amount up to $200 million (two hundred million dollars) during
construction and $400 million (four hundred million dollars) after
commencement of operations is required, as is automobile liability
insurance in similar amounts. Railroad protective insurance is required
on the East and Gold Line Corridors. Pollution liability insurance in
the amount of $5 million (five million dollars) per claim is required
along with other insurance applicable to construction projects or
required by law. The resolution acknowledges that indemnity and
insurance requirements may increase based on changes in law or
market conditions.


Architectural/Engineering Contract with Merrick & Company, 16 DO025 Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to amend contract 16 DO-025 with Merrick & Company to allow for
additional architectural/engineering design services in the amount of
$500,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $1,600,000
and to extend the contract duration to June 30, 2012. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended
amount is to be funded by annual projects for the duration of the
contract.



FasTracks Desktop Support Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to execute all documents necessary to award Dataman a 3 year
contract with two 1 year options for IT Desktop Support Services

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 6
(Contract # 10DY001) in the amount of $246,000 not to exceed for
3 years. Dataman, an SBE company, was selected through the
competitive bid process. The contract is being brought to the Board
because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No.
27, Series of 1983.


Reduced Duration of Eagle P3 Project Concession
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to negotiate a change to the Concession Agreement with Denver
Transit Partners (DTP) to amend the expiry date of the concession
from December 31, 2056 to December 31, 2044.



Board Approval of updated General Manager Job Description
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors
approve this updated job description for the General Manager.



Board Policy on Goal Setting Process for the General Manager
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt a policy (guidelines) for the General Manager goal setting
process.



Board Policy on the Evaluation Process for the General Manager’s
Annual Performance Review
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt a policy (guidelines) for the process to perform an annual
evaluation of the General Manager performance that is inclusive of
feedback from all Board members and the process is transparent to
the public.

Recommended Action
 Award of “Group 22” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the provision of
“Group 22” contracted fixed-route transit services with First Transit,
Inc. This contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed
$33,046,625 with two (2) one-year options in the amount of
$11,615,882 (option year 1) and $11,877,437 (option year 2), for a
total five year amount not to exceed $56,539,944. In addition, RTD
will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be approximately $6,477,610 for the initial three year
contract term, $2,238,799 for option year 1, $2,274,389 for option
year 2, for a total of $10,990,799 for the five year period. This
results in a total contract amount not to exceed $39,524,235 for the
initial three year contract period and $67,530,743 for the five year

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 6
period. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible
proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 10-DH007, to provide “Group 22” Public Transportation Services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective with
implementation of the January, 2011, service changes on January 9,
2011.
Director Tayer recommended that staff add the language to the Board
report from the discussion at the committee pertaining to the
explanation on Director Daly’s question about the facilities and
Director McMullen’s question on health care benefits.
III.

Status of Follow-up for State Auditors
The Committee members agreed that the followup to the audit hearing went
well on Tuesday. Second Vice Chair Busck recommended that the Board
modify our website to put a user friendly access and instructions on obtaining
information per the Open Records Act in keeping with the Board’s focus on
transparency.
Director Bagley recommended that the Board members start to provide a
couple of paragraphs about their conference travel experience. Director Tayer
suggested a form could be added to the travel folder asking the Board members
to describe what they learned of value from each trip.

IV.

Other Matters
Director Tayer expressed the value of having external reviewers of the
efficiency of our operations similar to the external panelists we have used for
validation of sales tax numbers, etc. He feels that the visual effect from
independent reviewers adds a perceived level of credibility to RTD.
The Committee discussed the importance of looking at short term and long
term plans relative to the budget. They recommend two separate ad hoc
committees that would look at these areas:
 Operational Efficiency—How well are we doing in this area and are
there any other best practices that will help us to improve?
 Revenue Sustainability Task Force—This is more of a long term view
(4-5 year outlook) that is strategic in nature and looks for possible
new revenue generators to augment our sales tax revenue for the
coming years. This committee could include the involvement of a
couple of Board members, perhaps some outside expertise and even
members of CAC who could provide ideas.
Board Resolution for Amendment 60, 61 and Proposition 101—
Director Bagley raised the question if the Board wants to do a resolution
opposing these Amendments. The Committee felt this was a good idea but the
effort needs to be driven through Bruce Daly’s Legislative Committee with
assistance from our lobbyists and should be choreographed with other entities
for greater effect. Director Busck will discuss with Director Daly.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 15, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 6 of 6
Director Bagley expressed the desire to communicate to our drivers the Board’s
support and concern with safety in the wake of the various accidents. He
asked how we can raise the level of awareness that safety is a high priority for
the Board. General Manager Washington indicated they are working on a
campaign regarding safety education and he has had the opportunity to speak
with a group of drivers to share our support. The Committee thought it would
be good if Board members could attend some of these various meetings with
the General Manager as a show of support. General Manager Washington will
arrange this.
General Manager Washington shared that an access-a-Ride driver was caught
talking on a cell phone. This was picked up by the media so he is not sure
what angle they will present.
General Manager Washington shared they have formed a regional group to look
at the New Starts criteria evaluation. The suggested criteria will have a
number of pegs that include factors such as sustainability, economics,
workforce development and ridership. This ridership component could be huge
and RTD is working with DRCOG to redo our riderships within the context of
the new, New Starts criteria. The messaging of this will need to be very
strategic as there are other factors such as cost effectiveness index that goes
into the ultimate determination for if a corridor can qualify under the new
criteria. Over the next couple of weeks they will be having strategic two onones with Board members. They are also targeting the LGT session on July 28
to discuss how this fits into the broader FasTracks funding strategy. A major
challenge is that FTA needs a matrix to measure but RTD wants to be
positioned to move quickly.
V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:58 p.m.

