1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, May 12, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 8:20 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

8:18 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

8:19 PM
8:19 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

8:18 PM
8:19 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

8:19 PM
8:20 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:19 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

8:18 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

8:18 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

8:19 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:19 PM
8:19 PM

Director Lasater was absent and Director Anderson left prior to the start of the meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Tara Bettale, Sarah
Camacho, Rick Clarke, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Kim
Heldman, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Nehemiah Hall,
Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKenna, Lorna Moritz, Bob Rizzuto, Roger
Sherman, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner

B. CAC Update
Committee Chair Hoy recognized Bob Rizzuto, Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC)
Co-Chair, and applauded him for his dedication in staying so late.
Bob Rizzuto thanked the Board for the opportunity to present to them this evening.
He noted that this is his 6th year on the CAC. He has seen a lot of changes and it
has been very fun to be part of the process. He also thanked the Directors for
participating in the two-on-one meetings; the CAC feels they are so rewarding and
a great opportunity to get to know the Directors better. Bob Rizzuto said that a
common thread within those discussions was “what’s next” for the CAC as RTD
transitions from construction and planning to operations. Other common themes
were engaging the CAC earlier as policy recommendations are begin developed by
staff, participating in more outside events and focus their quarterly meetings more
broadly to address the community interests better. He stated that the committee
also hopes the Board will utilize the CAC in a meaningful way during the General
Manager Executive Search process.

C. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

D. Updates

• Eagle P3 Project Update
Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, introduced
Greg Straight, Eagle P3 Project Director, to the Board. He said that while
the Board has met Greg previously, this is the first time he will be presenting

to them as the overall Project Director for Eagle P3. Rick Clarke noted that
Greg Straight has been on the Eagle project since day one; Greg Straight has
been given an awesome responsibility but he is a true leader that will bring
this project home on-time and on-budget.
Greg Straight reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is
available in the May 12, 2015 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda
Packet. He stated that design, construction and systems are proceeding
very quickly and on schedule for revenue service in 2016. He said that 20
commuter rail vehicles have already been received and four are in-route. He
expects all 66 will arrive by the end of the year.
Greg Straight pointed out that many people will inquire as to why testing
needs to be for a full year. He explained that each commuter rail car needs
1,000 miles of “burn-in” before revenue service as well as each operator
needing approximately 160 hours of “throttle time” (operating the car) along
the alignment they will work before revenue service can begin.
Greg Straight recognized the Public Information team for their amazing
efforts on the safety outreach program. Approximately 15,000 students
close to the East Line received safety brochures, door hangers were
distributed to 20,000 residences along the line in addition to numerous
community and stakeholder meetings. He stated that the same outreach
plan for the Gold Line will begin this fall. Greg Straight noted that the FTA
Project Management Oversight praised the outreach plan during staff
interviews and is in full support of the plan for other lines.
Greg Straight explained that RTD is assisting local agencies with the
issuance of the letter of intent for quiet zones. He said that while
stakeholders have requested that the Quiet Zones be established prior to
revenue service, it cannot be guaranteed. RTD and Denver Transit
Operators (DTO) are working to fulfill that request.
Greg Straight said that public tours would be available for all rail lines
through October as well as the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility. He
encouraged the Directors to get the word out to their constituents to attend.
Director Folska expressed her appreciation for the PI team as well. She
wondered how the project was coming with regards to Positive Train Control
(PTC). Greg Straight stated that PTC has been incorporated into the project
from the beginning. He has every reason to believe that it will be up and
operational for revenue service as there have been no indications of fatal
flaws.

Director James inquired if the “burn-in” miles for each rail car and “throttle
time” for each operator would be predominately on the East Line. Greg
Straight said that the majority of vehicle miles would be on the East Line
since it was ready first; however, operators need to have hours along the
alignment they will be working, so that will need to be on all rail lines.
Director Menten commented that on the West Line the issue of noise is not
just related to horns; it is also about the volume and frequency of the stop
announcements. She said she was not sure if that might also apply for the
Eagle Project but was something to keep in mind. She stated that there was
also a crossing along the West Line made a Quiet Zone after the fact. She
wondered how many at grade crossings there were throughout the Eagle
project, how many had requested to be Quiet Zones, and what the cost
would be to make one of these crossings a Quiet Zone after the fact. Greg
Straight stated that there were 40 at grade crossings, all of which had
requested to be Quiet Zones. He said that while the costs to make a
crossing eligible to be a Quiet Zone could be significant, most of these cost
would occur anyway to ensure safety. Interim General Manager Genova
pointed out that there is a big difference between the West Line and Eagle
Project as commuter rail is regulated by the Federal Railroad Administration
which means there are many more regulations.
Director Menten inquired how complaints would be handled since the lines
would be operated by DTO. She asked if it would work the same way as it
does currently with the contractors for our bus service. Greg Straight stated
that the complaint process would work the same; complaints would be
routed through RTD with RTD evaluating the complaint and monitoring the
resolution. He said that complaints are factored into DTO’s monthly
payment so they are highly incentivized to provide a high level of customer
service.
Director Deadwyler expressed her excitement at watching the progress
throughout her District; however, she said that she has yet to see any
vehicles operating along the line and she travels along it on a daily basis.
She wondered if perhaps there was a specific time she needed to be
watching as she would love to see one. Greg Straight explained that
currently the only portion of the track certified for testing was from DIA to
40th and Airport so they are not going far enough south yet for her to see
them.
Director Deadwyler inquired about the progress on the stations. Greg
Straight stated that the team had been focused on the civil improvements
and getting the rail line up for testing. He said the stations are progressing
well and people should really start to see progress now that the cars are
being tested.

Director Deadwyler noted that she gets a lot of complaints about noise from
certain communities but our trains are not even running through those areas.
She said it is important for people to understand that it is not just RTD that
will be operating trains. Greg Straight explained that RTD designating Quiet
Zones will be another benefit to the community; since we have a shared
alignment with the rail roads the whole crossing will be a Quiet Zone.
Director Tobiassen shared that many in his community heard that the freight
train operators would blow their horns whether or not a crossing was
designated a Quiet Zone. Rick Clarke noted that if it is a Quiet Crossing all
rail road companies recognize the Quiet Zone; however, if a train engineer
sees a potential incident they have discretion to use the horn.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked staff for a great presentation.

E. Other Matters
Director Francone shared that she and Director Lubow toured Boulder Junction
recently. She said it was fabulous to see the improvements that have been made.
She stated that Boulder Junction would be very excited if other Board members
wanted to go on a tour.
Director Deadwyler invited the entire Board to the annual Juneteenth Festival.
There will be entertainment and speakers that will really be promoting RTD. It is on
June 20th from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. in the Historic Five Points Neighborhood.

F. Next Meeting Date - June 2, 2015
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:57 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

