Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 22, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
June 22, 2010 at 5:45 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Ten (10) Board members were present at roll call. Director Tayer arrived late and Directors
Brohl, Christopher, Martinez and O’Boyle were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present. Chair Kemp commented that Martha Hecox, one of the
retirees with 32 years of service, had started her career as a ride checker, rose through the
ranks and at one time held the position of AGM of Operations. She will be missed.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
The Board recognized the participants of the 2010 International Bus Roadeo. Director Daly
complimented the team on their performance. Chair Kemp commented that the team is
working harder and harder to be a part of this competition. He thanked them for taking the
time to participate and noted we are inching closer and closer to the big win.
Bruce Abel. AGM of Operations introduced the members of the team and shared a little about
their background:
John Deschner—has over 29 years at RTD, has won the RTD Roadeo 9 times and competed
internationally 9 times.
Bus Maintenance team:
Larry Perkins has 33 years at RTD, 18 times competition in the RTD Roadeo and 5 times at the
International Roadeo.
Marco Carrillo was not present.
Ben Carroll has 11 years with RTD, 8 times with the RTD Roadeo and 4 times competing in
the International Roadeo.
Chair Kemp reminded the Board that the RTD Roadeo will be September 11 th and they should
consider competing again in 2010. He challenged the new General Manager, Phil Washington,
to compete on September 11th.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

Curtis Willoughby, Littleton, is visually impaired and lost access to the stop at Central Avenue
of the Flatirons business park when route 206 was changed. He indicated that he had been
told by staff that elimination of the route saved $162K but he questions if all that comes from

the .8 mile from this route. He wants RTD to fix the route and provide this service to the
Flatirons in Boulder.
Maryann Migliorelli, Boulder, spoke on behalf of the Boulder Chapter of the National Federation
of the Blind. She thanked RTD for listing to their ideas, concerns, etc and accepting
suggestions for route improvement. She would like RTD to re-consider the route 206 and work
together to look for options for the visually impaired especially in the winter months.
Karey Carbough, Longmont, also visually impaired, expressed gratitude to RTD for services.
This allows him to maintain his independence and he has been a 30+ year rider. Over the
years he has noted more and more loss of service. As the number of services/trips has
declined, so has the number of riders who have had to find other alternatives. They have given
the RTD staff some proposals that he asks this Board to consider.
Phil Greenwald, transportation planner for the City of Longmont, thanked the staff for meeting
with them on June 21, 2010. He expressed concerns over the riders/connectivity with a new
service Longmont Express that services the neighboring communities of Ft. Collins, Longmont
and Berthoud. Cutting off the service in Longmont would affect their ability to make the
connection with Longmont Express. He also noted that some of the decisions were based on
old data collected in the fall of 2009 by ride checkers when people were losing their jobs. He
believes current ride check data will tell a different story.
Chris Rothe, Golden, shared that one year ago he had his car vandalized at the park-n-ride at
Coal Creek. His car was recently stolen at that same park-n-ride and he expressed concerns
that there are no cameras at these park-n-rides. He asked if there were plans to add cameras.
He expressed that RTD is failing in its obligation to provide security at the park-n-rides.
Director Busck asked if the staff can take a look at the report on vandalism at that facility and
report back.
Director Tayer thanked the riders who had attended the public hearing on the route 206 and
requested staff to address their specific concerns.
Director Bagley shared that the Colorado Center for the Blind is in his district in Littleton and he
has been talking to them and understands the concerns.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the Committee reports.
Director Cohen reported on a recent meeting between the CDOT Commissioners and the RTD
Board of Directors. There were 10 Commissioners and 10 Board members who participated in
an interactive exchange of ideas and concerns. This was more of a relationship building with
both groups recognizing the organic relationship and the opportunity to further develop this
relationship. He thanked Lisa Trujillo, Board Analyst for setting up this meeting.
Director Bagley commented that the CDOT Commission has established a new division on
Transit and Rail. RTD and CDOT will need to get together to have further discussions on this
division.
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee—Committee Chair Busck provided an
update on the status of this committee. The Committee is well along in approving a General
Manager job description, goal setting and evaluation policies. These documents will be
reviewed with the full Board at the July 13th meeting and should be finalized before the due
date to the State Auditors of September, 2010. The benchmarking process is a little more
difficult and will require more time to complete.

VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp reported the Metro Mayors had a meeting on June 11 th. General Manager
Washington presented on the PPP process. We now have a concessionaire on Board. He
thanks the Board and especially the staff for the countless hours, hard work, and commitment
to confidentiality to deliver a stand-up program that is the best in the country.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF May 18, 2010
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the May 18 regular
Board minutes.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 9 votes in favor, 0 against
and 2 abstain (Directors Bagley and Daly) who were absent from
this meeting. Directors Brohl, Christopher, Martinez and O’Boyle
were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF May 25, 2010.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the May 25 Special
Board meeting minutes.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 9 votes in favor, 0 against
and 2 abstain (Directors Malpiede and Bagley) who were absent
from this meeting. Directors Brohl, Christopher, Martinez and
O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF June 15, 2010.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the June 15 Special
Board meeting minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 9 votes in favor, 0 against
and 2 abstain (Chair Kemp and Director Cohen) who were absent
from this meeting. Directors Brohl, Christopher, Martinez and
O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
Before he began his report, General Manager Washington welcomed Carla Perez, the new
Assistant General Manager of Administration.
 Two Creeks Neighborhood Organization Meeting-June 19
General Manager Washington, Director Cohen, West Corridor contractors and others
attended a meeting with the Two Creeks Neighborhood Organization. RTD was there
primarily in a listing mode. Other representatives included Mayor Murphy and the
Ombudsman. There was quite a represented group.
Director Cohen added that this group represented the neighborhood primarily off 6
Avenue between Sheridan and Wadsworth. They expressed some frustrations that
they have had for years. He believes that RTD’s presence there took us one step
closer in changing some of the perception but this will not happen overnight. He
received a thank you card from the President of the Organization.


The FasTracks Plan Going Forward
General Manager Washington thanked the Board again for their leadership and support.
He outlined that they are pursuing an aggressive posture with the Eagle P3 and
FasTracks that will include these elements:
 Accelerate financial close
 Pursue August groundbreaking
 Start Workforce Initiative (community & trade organizations)
 Lessons learned on Eagle P3 project (give team perspective and include FTA
input)
 Provide October financial plan update & identify staff recommendations for
remaining funds (technical feasibility analysis)
 FasTracks construction ready—years 2010, 2011, 2012-pursuit of funding for
unfunded corridors.



Employee Forum and Awards Presentation
General Manager Washington will host an employee forum at the King Center on
Auraria Campus. Board members are invited.



Additional Questions from Members of US Congress on Congressional Testimony
RTD staff has responded to additional questions from members of Congress since his
Testimony on the Hill. There is great interest in the PPP program and RTD has heard
from and received multiple requests from across the country. General Manager
Washington shared some examples of the type of questions asked and felt the timing
was good and we included in our response that the Board had approved the
concessionaire on June 15th. Director Pulliam noted our responses were good and on
point.



DUS Financial Reporting Update
We are making progress in our effort to set up process for managing of the financial
reporting element of the DUS plan per the condition that RTD placed on giving DUSPA
the advanced funds. The CFO is working on the general ledger transfer. July 6 is the
targeted date for the sale of the North Wing property.



Analysis of Bus Accidents
Staff has recently completed an analysis of bus accidents from Jan through May,
2010. This has provided good statistics on hot spots, types of accidents, etc and
helps us to identify areas for improvement. AGM Dave Genova, Safety, and his staff
have done a great job of pulling these reports together. They will report out at the next
Operations Committee meeting.

Director Daly inquired about an update on the de-watering at DUS. AGM Rick Clarke will
follow up.
Director McMullen asked “What are we doing about safety”, and expressed we need to tell the
story of our efforts since the accidents.
IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through H.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

A brief discussion occurred about the approval of the
August 22 Service Changes. Chair Kemp acknowledged
the concerns and sensitivities expressed by members in
his District (Longmont) but stated that given the amount
of service reductions that are occurring in all transit
across the country, RTD is doing a good job of managing
the deficiencies. He cited that Sacramento was doing a
20% cut across the board compared to RTD who has
made a 1.1 percent change.
Director James asked the question “Why are we doing so
well”? General Manager Washington indicated there are a
lot of factors but unlike other agencies that may be doing
wholesale cuts, we are making surgical cuts and
approaches in our reductions using a very business –like
approach. RTD also has highly qualified staff with great
expertise and can effectively manage and implement
programs. Director Kemp added we have a good
relationship with our constituents and elected official
community which aids in the implementation and support
of programs.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

A.

An electronic vote was taken for items A through H with
11 votes in favor and 0 against. Directors Brohl,
Christopher, Martinez and O’Boyle were absent.

Amendment to RTD Defined Contribution Plan and increase in RTD Administrative
Contribution for All Plan Participants
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors (i) amend the RTD Defined Contribution Plan to provide for
participation by the General Manager in accord with the General Manager’s Employment
Agreement; and (ii) increase its administrative contribution to the plan to provide
payment of investment management fees for all plan participants from $25,000 to
$35,000 per year.

B.

Dataman, USA (Dataman) IT Work Order Contract Increase of Contract Value Not-toExceed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
increase the contract value not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with Dataman
USA for IT Technical and Management Support Services $350,000 to extend the
current work order contract IT Technical and Management Support for General
Software Development Life-Cycle Services and Migration of Legacy Software
(17DK001). This contract was originally awarded May 1st, 2007 to Dataman USA, LLC
(a DBE/SBE company) through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an
initial year plus four one year options to renew based on positive performance by the
vendor. In order to continue the 3rd year option additional funding must be added to
the contract not to exceed. The proposed action increases the current contract not-toexceed limit of $565,000 by $350,000 to a new total contract not-to-exceed limit of
$915,000.

C.

Ciber, Inc. (Ciber) IT Contingency Work Order Contract Increase of Contract Value NotTo-Exceed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
increase the contract value not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with Ciber for IT
Technical and Management Support Services (Contract 15DK008). This contract was
originally awarded in 2006 to Ciber through a competitive bid process. The contract
allowed for an initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to be renewed based on
positive performance by the vendor. The final option has been executed and the period
of performance extended to April 24, 2011. The proposed action increases the current
contract not-to-exceed limit of $2,550,000.00 by $500,000.00 to a new total
contract not-to-exceed limit of $3,050,000.00.

D.

State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state legislative liaison services)
with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (July
1, 2010 through June 30, 2011) to extend Contract No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of
$101,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.

E.

FasTracks Fare Collection Contract Award to Scheidt & Bachmann USA, Inc.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract for the FasTracks Fare Collection Project (Ticket Vending Machines)
to Scheidt & Bachmann USA, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $14,000,000.00.
Funding for this project is included in each FasTracks corridor’s budget.

F.

Recommendation for Contract with the Union Pacific Railroad for Advance Relocation
Work In the Vicinity of Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a contract with the Union Pacific
Railroad (UP) for reimbursement of design, material acquisition and construction
necessary to relocate UP tracks in the vicinity of Denver Union Station (DUS), in an
amount not to exceed $600,000. This work in advance of a comprehensive agreement
for relocation of UP on the East Corridor is necessary due to construction at DUS that
is impacting the adjacent UP property. Funding for this relocation is included in the
2010 Adopted Budget for the East Corridor project.

G.

Resolution Authorizing MTI TIFIA & RIFF Loan Agreements

H.

Approval of August 22, 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 22, 2010 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annualized cost savings of
approximately $1,168,000, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
There were no recommended actions.

XI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no Executive Session.

XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.

XV.

ADJOURNMENT
The Board meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, June 22, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
William McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Jeff Becker
Jessie Carter
Phil Eberl
David Genova
Mike Gil
Bob Grado
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
John Perry

District I
District K
District H
District O
District M
District N
District A
District C
District E
District L
District F

Trent Ratcliff
Scott Reed
Dean Shaklee
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
Henry Stopplecamp
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Marie Washington
Phil Washington
Greg Yates

OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor – Spectrum
Curtis Willoughby – National Federation of the Blind Boulder Valley Chapter
Maryann Migliorelli – President, National Federation of the Blind Boulder Valley Chapter
Doris Willoughby- National Federation of the Blind Boulder Valley Chapter
Bob Wilson
Kacey Carbaugh
Phil Greenwald – City of Longmont
Chris Rothe
Lorraine Anderson
Ed Bush – CRMCA
John Deschner
Ben Carroll
Larry Perkins

