Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

August 26, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop held on
Thursday, August 21, 2008 at 5:30 pm.

****
Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Quinlan, Directors; Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon, Bill
Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Chris
Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, John Tayer and Barbara Yamrick.
Dave Ruchman

Staff Present:

Bruce Able, Mark Bauderman, Rick Clarke, Kevin Diviness, Ron Dodsworth,
Carol Duecker Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Cory Granrud, Terry
Howerter, David Krutsinger, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Cal
Marsella, Robert Merriman, Brian Middleton, Karen Morales, Andy Mutz,
Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, Scott Roberts, Chris
Reitter, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill
Sirois, Julie Skeen, James Starling, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Liz
Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, David
Vaughan, Sean Vonfeldt, Larry Warner, Phil Washington, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Joe Mackey, Jerry Staples, Gene Putnam – City of Thornton, Kathleen
Osher – Transit Alliance, Holman Carter – ATU 1001, Pedro Ramos,
Andrea Meneghel – CDR Associates, Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Eric
Tinsley, Nissa LaPoint – Metro North News, Josh Sapir, Jake Obrien,
Richard Ochiuzzo – Aaglen, Don Ulrich - CH2M Hill, Phil Greenway –
City of Longmont, Audrey DeBarros, Fred Sandal – DRCOG, Lorraine
Anderson – City of Arvada, Mark Imhoff – Jacons, Jim Gunning – Lone
Tree, Ken Smith – CCA, Rick Pilgrim – URS, Jack O’Boyle, Shelley Cook,
Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News

****

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 2
Call to Order

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Roll Call:

Roll call was taken with 10 Board Members present and 5 absent.
Directors Brohl, Chacon, Tayer, and Pulliam arrived after roll call.
Director Ruchman was absent.

1.

FasTracks Workshop
Chair Lee Kemp kicked the meeting off by reading a letter from Russell George,
Executive Director for CDOT, providing his support to the RTD FasTracks program.
Chair Kemp then provided a statement that today FasTracks is still on track and on
budget. The purpose of this pre-budget workshop is to look ahead to the challenges
that are facing FasTracks, identify options and obtain public input on how to address
this issue. This is an opportunity to partner with the public, partners, elected officials,
constituents and interested parties to ensure the FasTracks program will be successful
and that we deliver what has been promised.
Cal Marsella, General Manager, did a walkthrough of the presentation and provided
information on the current and future status of FasTracks. Please refer to the Review
of FasTracks Status and Future Strategic Direction presentation that is included with
these minutes.
Cal Marsella emphasized that FasTracks is a regional plan that has regional buy-in
beginning with the original FasTracks plan in 2004 which was reviewed by various
entities such as DRCOG, etc and concurred that it was in good standings based on the
information available then.
Some highlights of the presentation are that RTD has experienced a dramatic increase
in Ridership over the past year. The ability to respond to current service needs and
build the FasTracks program has been undermined by increases in fuel cost,
construction costs, construction cost escalation and a decrease in the RTD requited
revenues from sales tax. Options have been developed to respond to the FasTracks
program given these challenges.




Option #1 – Build what can be afforded by 2017 – do not implement entire
program.
Option #2 – Stay within voter approved revenue limits and extend schedule
beyond 2017 – implement full program over time.
Option #3 – Maintain Original Scope and Schedule and seek additional Revenue
Sources/Opportunities.

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 3
Critical decision points will depend on the actual cost of the FasTracks Public-Private
Partnership effort; cost of railroad right-of-way, cost escalation and actual revenues,
RTD staff recommends the following to continue the implementation of FasTracks:





Keep FasTracks on schedule by continuing current project activities
Protect federal funding of $1 billion by proceeding with the Gold Line and East
Corridors (combined as a Public-Private Partnership project)
Continue to monitor economic conditions
Develop a comprehensive outreach plan to review FasTracks implementation
options with the public and key stakeholder.

The plan going forward is to reach out and ask for input from the public and our regional
partners. RTD will host 15 public input meetings one in each district in September and
October. The input received at the meetings will assist RTD in determining the best options for
delivering FasTracks.
At the November FasTracks committee review at that point would like to ask the board some
direction in refining financial assumptions
Neill thanked Cal for his presentation and indicated that we are now in the question portion of
the meeting starting with Director Yamrick.
Questions/Answers and Comments Portion of Meeting
Barbara Yamrick asked that since Aurora is the last to be built - are we sure that the West
Corridor is not affecting some of the monies that could be set aside for Aurora.
Cal - doesn’t believe we are. The West Corridor is eligible for federal funding and we are well
into the process of getting approval of Full Funding Grant Agreement. It is in our interest in
proceeding in that corridor. If that project comes in under budget – then we will come back
and discuss it with the board. Cal indicated that to be eligible for SB 1 you have to apply for it
every year. It is a revolving pot of money.
Bill Elfenbein asked to discuss what needs to be done to create the PPP.
Cal – we are on schedule with PPP and anticipate releasing an RFP in 2009 for an award in
2012. We are optimistic that the numbers in total are going to be favorable to original set of
assumptions but can not plug into plan until we see proposal. Will continue to pursue but can
not imbed any savings assumption until proposals come in.
Bill Elfenbein – is there hesitation from the privates?
Cal - not at this point except the one caveat by moving ahead with East and Gold the Board
would need to take an affirmative position before we go out with PPP proposals to say we will
fund we will have the money available.

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 4
Wally Pulliam – deferred his questions
Bill Christopher – regarding option 1 - If option one is chosen what is the plan, what gets
eliminated.
Cal - before we come up with a number it depends on PPP and railroad lines. Hesitant to go
there. Yet we are not far enough along with cost of revenue projections to draw out at this
point.
Bill Christopher – will we have that information before you ask us for a decision in November?
Cal - unlikely because we still won’t have PPP proposals.
Bill Christopher responded by saying that it is unacceptable and that in order for the Board to
feel comfortable with giving direction, the Board needs the information on the 3 options.
Cal indicated that they we will come up with something to give the board options and ranges.
He may know where the railroads are at that point and the polling data will also be available.
Juanita Chacon – Can the value engineering that was done on the West Corridor be revisited.
Cal – that will be a Board decision. Under the SB-1 program we agreed to prioritize the
passing track with Jefferson County. Would like to come back to Board. Cal will review
MOU’s with communities.
Noel Busck – we are okay on the East and West. The difficulty is what comes in the future for
the other lines. The reason for that is when we go out for RFP in 2010 we have to have the
dollars to back it up. Same concerns as Bill Christopher. Need to know also question coming
back in November. What is the drop dead date when we have to make a decision? If it
required us more time to keep us in the loop. We have to be up to speed and know what is
going on. Noel also suggested the possibility of other options. Make sure every member of
Board understands on where money is coming from. Bottom line this Board has really got to
be kept informed what is going on.
John Tayer – can we consider looking to the private sector, for example the railroad agencies
for operations of the rail. John echoed Bill Christopher and Noel Busck – we shouldn’t be
making decisions unless we have the full compliment of information that we need – if we don’t
have to rush it then so be it.
Lee Kemp – with the information being out – his phone has been ringing off hook with an
outpour of help to see what needs to be done to keep program on track. We have received
calls from Mayors, State Senator’s, and Representatives. They have ideas – there are other
options that we have not looked at yet and will during public process. Lee strongly reiterated
that the northwest line be done on time.

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 5
Chris Martinez – piggybacked on what has been said so far. He feels like a much uninformed
Board member. He has been asking questions all along and now with the jump to 7.9 – the
Board should have been informed. As we move forward as Board members we want to make
sure that we are going to be informed every step of the way.
Cal – there are no surprises here. He agrees and has tried to keep the Board up to date but
pulling it hard together is difficult, it is changing day by day. Give an annual snapshot – trying
to balance the board’s desire with needing to know. Don’t want to under inform or over
inform. Tried to give through the course of the year indicators – Looking for advice as to what
the Board would be comfortable.
Chris also felt that there were people in the community who were informed before the Board.
Going forward wants to make sure that other entities are not getting information before the
Board.
Bill McMullen – indicated that the biggest shock is the 7.9 million. He is pleased with what he
is seeing tonight. Bill agrees with other Board members on needing more information. We are
not saying we are going to raise taxes. It is up to the public on the decision we are going to
make. He believes we are going forward in a clear transparent manner. We will be asking
public where we should go. Program that is put forward tonight is appropriate and the start of
a lot of hard work. Can hardly wait to see public reaction is. Bill is committed to the
FasTracks Program for the whole community of the RTD District.
Barbara Brohl – What is the difference between option 1 and option 2? Both talk about
shortening segments of remaining corridors. Why would option 2 have to have any shortening
of any corridors when concept is to build entire program just at an extended timeframe.
Cal - the difference is we would shorten in the short run and then extend and build it in the
longer time frame to build in original scope.
Barbara Brohl – concurred with comments from Bill Christopher regarding needing more
information before choosing an option and Noel Busck about looking at other options. Barb is
very interested in seeing what additional public private partnerships there are. She is looking
to staff to help in providing timely updates when things are moving at a rapid pace. It would
have been helpful to have received some information before this evening
Bruce Daly – on page 13 the assumption that are being made on escalation rates compared to
the other transit agencies the 2008 and 2009 are way over their estimation. Is that because
they haven’t looked at it?
Cal – I don’t know what they have done. Our numbers are predicated on actual experience to
date with steel and concrete and that what it is up. These are the number they gave us when
we surveyed them.

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 6
Bruce Daly also indicated that on page 33 in regards to stakeholder out reach – he doesn’t see
any mention of Legislature or Governor.
Cal told Bruce they would be more specific and would include them as well. They are included
under Key Stakeholders but they can call it out and be more specific.
Daryl Kinton – emphasized a lot of points that already have been made. He thinks there are
other options out there that we need to look at. Daryl asked in regards to option 2 what
would we be looking at. Would we open it at original date or stay with the pattern?
Cal – those are good thoughts we haven’t zeroed in on it. Building ghost stations is not going
to save us much. Point is well taken – will give more alternatives of what shortening means.
Daryl Kinton – is there any possibility to move up polling to get data back?
Cal – we don’t have control over it. They are looking at dong it in September outside the DNC
Committee with all of impacts. Privates determine that the September timeframe will probably
give most quality feedback.
Daryl Kinton – What timeframe are we looking at in getting data back to the board?
Cal – Late September.
Neill Quinlan – Thinks it is imperative that we consider privatizing the rail operations. That
includes the existing rail operations and to be built - being it commuter rail or light rail in
support of doing and delivering this system to public.
Barbara Yamrick is in support of PPP but not in support of privatizing. She commented that we
didn’t privatize DIA because it was over budget and that those finances changed many times.
The airport works and we are proud of it. Nobody can, see, feel or touch what we are doing.
We get very confused and ask why we have not generated more money as we do our work the reason is war and outsourcing. Privatizing our system doesn’t make a lot of sense.
Bill Elfenbein – In many ways we are a stalking horse for what has happened in the state.
Things are changing before our eyes. Point is, is that before we totally panic – the public
needs to understand that nothing comes free anymore. What was good in 2004 or even 2007
don’t cut it today. When we go out to public meetings it is important we understand and get
point across that it is not the same as it was before.
Wally Pulliam – Director Yamrick made a good point.
Bill Christopher – looking ahead in regards to option 3 -what is our drop dead date as far as

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 7
having to make a decision in regards to making a decision in going to ballot to raise taxes?
Cal – Go to legislature and ask for authority to go when we chose – to leave option open when
we know number better. If the desire is to try to get authority in 2009 we need to start
mobilizing in Dec and Jan of 2008 and 2009 to coincide. When we go it will be a product of
public sentiment, a result of public hearings and the polling that comes in.
Noel Busck commented that he is impressed with Cal and staff – they doing a good job in
communicating. He suggested that for every Tuesday session that Cal gives a 10 or 15
minute update on what he has been doing and what is going on. Noel also suggested more
frequent public hearing and phone messaging to the Board.
Cal indicated that he sends a weekly update to the board but he will talk to Lee. Cal also
indicated that he thinks there is so much paperwork and things are falling through.
Noel responded by saying that it is old news after 6-days.
John Tayer mentioned that it would be helpful to know the percentage of escalation due to
materials, scope change, labor cost increase and other factors.
Liz Rao indicated the scope changes to program are 5% and materials are 60% of total.
John Tayer – Wants to understand from Cal’s perspective in the 3 scenarios. What is your
assumption of the hold harmless clause?
Cal - Even with recommendations we gave you even with West and with East and Gold,
because they are the only corridors with federal funding – of eligibility – if we proceed with
those the amount of money we receive from the feds helps those corridors get build but does
not hurt anybody else. It is the same baseline line with them or without them it just takes
advantage of deferral money. Beyond that everyone would be impacted equally consistent
with the hold harmless clause.
Chris Martinez – in regards to slides 9 – 12 cost for steel copper and concrete, what did we
use for 7.9 billion as cost.
Cal – the inflation factors we are using that number in the year we need to buy commodity.
Chris - in regards to slide 19 – what happens if and when sales tax goes above 6.3%, what
happens to bottom line?
Cal – it helps significantly. Again it has to be tempered with a normalizing factor just as it
goes up it can also come down. It has a positive impact on model and cash availability.
Increase that category we call pay as you go which could have a repercussion in reducing

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 8
amount we have to finance which could play out in rest of model.
Chris - in regards to page 21 – sales tax – is this just the FasTracks tax or everything we
receive?
Liz – FasTracks tax
Bill McMullen – in relationship to RTD when talking about privatization RTD will always own
everything – we will lease it out but at end of lease period that assets, will always stay in the
public realm. Is that correct?
Cal – Bill, you are correct.
Bill McMullen – back when we did TREX- was there a cost savings by using recycled steel?
Liz – It was a wash.
Bill McMullen – where do we expect steel to come from as we move forward?
Liz Rao – we have heard that most steel for new construction is recycled steel – we don’t
know where it will come from.
Bruce Daly – 1 question CRMF is subject to PPP process. Isn’t that just a building?
Cal – Yes they are going to build it. Putting that in helped up reach that critical mass.
Chris Martinez – page 29 the central corridor extension – it has been moved out further
delayed behind SE and SW on original schedule. Why has this happened?
Liz Rao– it is going to be timed to open to with East corridor which is schedule to open in
2015. Given we didn’t go with the street car configuration; we don’t need that long period of
time. Contracts are pushed out but the completion is the same.
Chris Martinez in regards to the 7.9 billion – Chris would like to have a corridor by corridor
breakdown.
Neill Quinlan entertained a motion to close this portion – Busck moved and Bill Christopher
seconded.

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 9

2.
2009 Budget
John Tayer asked Phil to give the board a sense from his perspective of what staff is looking
for. Phil indicated that sub item A is an information item. It is a department by department
requested budget and difference between 2008 and 2009.
Board input on 2009 options sub B is to see if the board has any input on options presented on
12th of August.
Cal indicated that we went though this in great detail previously – John asked if anyone
wanted a specific department by department review.
Neill asked if the department heads could comment on Bus Operations and Light Rail
Operations. Cal recommends that Robert Merriman has the best insight and asked him to do
so.
Robert Merriman – the amended budget the board just approved on Tuesday was 125.9 million
bus ops is requesting 131.2 million. 4.2 percent increase. Key elements are primarily due to
high diesel price. Increase in per unit price as consumables, merit increase and a full year of
service reductions. Those are key elements.
Robert on Rail – 28.5 m and request is 29.4 which is a 3% increase due to increase in parts
cost.
Neill Quinlan – asked if the insulator problems have been resolved.
Cal – yes – we have ordered new insulators – well on way and due in next month all will be
replaced.
Barbara Yamrick – are we paying for them?
Cal – recommending that we split cost of both buying and replacing them.
Barbara Yamrick – will we have new warranty?
Cal – yes- except for a specific exclusion problem that might arise from mag chloride buildup
on insulators -on workmanship defects yes.
Phil wanted to make two points – He wants the Board to understand that what was briefed on
August 12th was the projected 2009 budget – didn’t have the actual request – tonight we
have actual request. Actual numbers were projected at 3.2% higher than 2008 – came in
3.7% higher but were able to reconcile by using a $4 per gallon fuel and scrubbing. Actually
lower deficit amount that was presented on August 12th from 35.6 million to 32.2 million.

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 10
Cal said they budgeted $4.55 per gallon we saw fuel moving back so we revised fuel budget
was revised to $4 dollars. What happens next year is subject to change – if it goes down we
have a surplus if not we will need to amend the budget.
The last point Phil made was when we look at options that were provided – staff would like to
move forward with recommend in option 2 and bring back at the next Financial/Administration
Committee Meeting in September - input will be accepted through Paula.
John Tayer - for point of clarification budget assumption we presented on August 12th but we
didn’t really get the first look until Tuesday – just to be clear – the figures were focused on the
numbers on last Tuesday.
Chris Martinez – 2 questions. Is the fleet replacement cost inflated to match what materials
cost we are dealing with in FasTracks.
Susan Cohen – no, the costs that are in there are the costs if we would buy them today. The
only fleet replacement in 2009 budget is 97 ADA vehicles – those vehicles materials are
adjusted Have we adjusted the purchase price due to inflation.
Cal – Yes
Chris - second question – has to do with fare rate increase that we are taking out to public
comment for next month – what ever option that comes back will be folded into the 2009
budget.
Phil – yes – that is correct.
Lee Kemp– in option number two where we have the assumption of deferring purchase of
intercity. Have we estimated costs in our operating bud for refurbishing of equipment we will
have to maintain before we go into a repurchase of intercity buses?
Cal – don’t think we have a budget provision – there is a difference on if we get the SB-1
money for replacement of half. If not we will have to do it all. We will have to absorb the
whatever refurbishment cost in our current operating budget
Phil - It is not in number two option. It will be addressed in the amended budget in 2009.
John Tayer – think option 2 is the appropriate way to go – Will ask for a little more
clarification on EcoPass structure figure. In the 11m which is fare increase total – does that
include part of EcoPass funding or rate increase?
Bruce – under options 2 and 5 the number should be 3 million dollars.
Juanita – we need to revisit mall shuttle. The cost to maintain repair, we need to take a hard
look at it for a revenue. Encourage us to put it on table. We need to let other entities know
that this is really draining us. Look at it as a revenue producer to maintain.

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 11
Cal – some challenges are it is a four door quick load – hard to enforce. Not easy to
implement. We will think about that, not an easy operational thing to get done.
Busck – Not into putting fares on it. We do not need to maintain – we are providing a lot of
service – and maintaining pavers it expensive.
Stan Szabelak, Engineering Project Manager – We are underway with Stakeholders to propose
a pilot program to investigate an alternative pavement system. We are in the midst of trying to
figure it out.
Cal indicated we went to the partnership about taking pavers out and using concrete – they
are not in support of that. They suggested the original designers have volunteered time to
imbed paver in to reduce cost.
Brohl – would prefer to see any cost not come from riders but come from businesses in
downtown area.
The question is with the whole set of options regarding in option 2 and 3 – defer intercity bus
purchase to 2013 less sb1 match. 29.4 million would be something we would have to pay
now as part of option two.
Cal – we are deferring the bus purchases – applied to SB1 money to replace half and we need
a local match – which is what we have budgeted.
Bruce Daly – indicated that he is not happy with advertising on light rail vehicles. Would like
this to be an agenda item on the next operations committee.
Chris – how many bus passes, regional and express do we sell a year – one of the things we
put out last week for public hearing was a 2dollar additional increase for regional and express
bus passes which would have a revues impact on budget and increase the 11.2. When you
look at options – there may be a source of revenue that what not counted on this particular
original plan.
Bill McMullen – how much money is generated from the wrapped trains in Portland.
Bruce – the 1 million dollar revenue estimated included in budget packages is a result of
conversations with ad agency Lamar who also handles Portland. The dollar number is their
best guestimate on if we went into a Portland type LRT advertising.
B Christopher – what would be the drop dead date to submit variation talk to one of the
options presented?
Phil – we will be accepting input for the next 30 days.

Summary of the FasTracks/ Pre-Budget Workshop meeting held on Thursday,
August 21, 2008
Page 12
3.
2009-2014 Transit Development Program
Susan Cohen – went through the TDP presentation very briskly. Paying close detail to
Revenue Assumptions, Cost Assumptions, and Major Capital Projects etc…. For detailed
information please see attached Power Point Presentation. Very lean TDP – maintaining
everything in a state of good repair – no expansion – only what is essential. Projecting a
$37.2 million deficit in 2010 and the annual shortfall would decrease each year after 2010 and
adjusting to fix the 2010 shortfall with ongoing changes would balance budget with evey year
after that. Upcoming schedule:
September 4, 2008 – Local Government Meeting to review draft TDP projects
September 9, 2008 – Board of Directors review of draft TDP
September 16, 2008 – Adoption of 2009-2014 TDP
Cal indicated that we have never adopted a budget with a deficit going into a year but it is
common practice with other agencies. We are going to defer actions based upon further
information as we get closer to that budget year.
Questions/Answers and Comments Portion of Meeting
Lee Kemp – On page 3 – when we have to add substations will it take care of max fleet when
we are done.
Susan – this isn’t adding substations this is modifications to the ones we have.
Do we have money built in to expand – yes we do – Liz
John Tayer - would like there to be a policy that in order to keep up with service we increase
fares a certain percentage instead of having to come back and consider service reductions. A
policy would cut down on the level of acrimony that we have when people are trying to guess
on what rate we are going to hit them up again.
Cal – we will take a look at it.
4.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

5.

Next Meeting
The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday, September 2, 2009
at 5:30 p.m.

6.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 9:27 pm.

