Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

February 8, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
February 7, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair James; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Director Cohen arrived after the meeting began.
Director Hoy left before the meeting ended.

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Kemp, McMullen and Williams

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Michelle Boyd,
Jesse Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Phuoc Dang, Eric
Farrington, Terry Friedrich, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Scott Johnson, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Carolyn Martin, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Sue
Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, John
Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Rob Timmerman, Judy
Vialpando, Percy Washington and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Homer Anderson, Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Stan Gronek – ATU1001.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Recommended Actions
 West Line/I-225 O&M Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer of $828,869 from the West Line/I-225

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 2 of 4

O&M expense to capital for vehicle purchases for the West Line in 2012. This is a
transfer and will not increase the 2012 Adopted Budget. It is necessary to allocate
this amount to capital to facilitate West Line support vehicle purchases and for proper
accounting for FasTracks capital purchases.
Jannette Scarpino explained that the vehicle purchases were originally anticipated to
occur later this year. However, ten month lead times on the vehicles require the
transfer of funds from expense to capital at this time. The amount was appropriated
in the West Line O&M Budget when the Board approved the 2012 Adopted Budget.
Therefore, there is no impact on the budget only a transfer of these dollars to the
proper category.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion
to forward this item to the full Board
at the February 21, 2012 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:
II.

The Motion passed Unanimously.

GFOA Recognition
Committee Chair James noted that this is another acknowledgement and further proof
that RTD is doing a great job.
Terry Howerter added that RTD has received this award 19 years in a row and while our
staff makes this look easy, this award very difficult to achieve.
General Manager Washington and Committee Chair James presented this award to Sue
Sandoval, Terry Howerter and the Finance team.

III.

Fourth Quarter 2011 Internal Audit Report
Bill Holmes explained that the goals for the 2011 audit were accomplished with the last
six items completed in the last quarter of 2011.

IV.

Potential Refunding Opportunity-FasTracks Sales Tax Bonds Series 2006
Teresa Sedmak noted that we issued bonds in 2006 for FasTracks projects and in 2007
we had the opportunity to re-fund a portion of those for significant savings. As of now,
we have $235 Million outstanding and we have the opportunity to re-fund $150 Million
to recapture significant savings. Depending on the way we structure the bonds and
market rates it’s between 4.5 - 9% which amounts to $13.8 to $18.5 Million. We would
like to advise the Board that staff will be preparing to take advantage of the opportunity
by putting at team together for the financing and commencing on the legal work which
would be required to capture that opportunity.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 3 of 4

V.

Fourth Quarter 2011 Investment Report
Teresa Sedmak explained that the interest rate environment continues to be extremely
low, but we did manage to beat our benchmarks on our investments. We did end the
year with a 1.7% return, providing $8.7 Million dollars in investment earnings to the
district.

VI.

Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Recommendations Update
Terry Howerter noted that staff continues to work on these items and if time allows at
the Board/Staff retreat we would like to go into more detail at that time. The
recommendations listed have been assigned to specific departments which will initiate
work on and pursue these recommendations.
Director Tayer asked what the chances are that RTD would move forward with Self
Collection of Sales Taxes in 2012. Terry Howerter explained that the challenge is going
to be from the legislature and their approval. Marla Lien added that to go forward with
this is 2012 would require late bill status and would have multiple issues getting passed.
Director Deadwyler indicated that the timelines for these items are very broad and asked
what staff is doing now to expedite savings versus cutting costs. Terry Howerter
explained that our focus has been on the growing of revenues – such as self collection
of sales taxes. The timelines currently shown came out of the different committees and
were deemed appropriate.
Director Tobiassen added that many of our processes are inefficient. If we could change
that, it would help us in the long term to reduce costs.
Director Bagley noted that for future Board updates, we should look at the items that are
the most critical and decide what we want to spend the most amount of time focusing
on.
Director Cohen commented that the Board has to address the political climate in which
we operate and needs to take a position on certain items. One such example is internet
sales tax and inquired if the agency had a position statement on that issue.

VII.

December 2011 Monthly Financial Status Report
Terry Howerter explained that staff just received the new sales tax figures today and
that information is being passed to the Board.
Doug MacLeod noted that the financial statements included in the Board Packet are
estimates and we will discuss the actual versus the estimate at the end of the report.
Year to date results indicate that ridership for bus was down 1.6% and light rail was
down 0.4%. This is most likely due to the lower gas prices. The December financial
statements, both on a month to date and year to date basis are currently in the midst of
our audit. Quite a bit of work has already been completed on initial testing and
verification by our auditors, RubinBrown. Therefore these numbers are subject to
adjustment. Our full audit will begin February 20th and we will have the final figures to
present to the Board at the May Finance Committee meeting.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 4 of 4

VIII.

Other Matters
Committee Chair James added that yesterday the Secretary of Transportation, Ray
LaHood visited Denver and was very positive about RTD and Denver. There was good
dialogue between everyone and Secretary LaHood offered information on how to pursue
additional Federal Funds.

IX.

Next Meeting Date – March 20, 2012

X.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m. to the DBE Committee.

