Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 20, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
January 20, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.
III.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board members were present at roll call.

Director Brohl arrived after roll call.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were thirteen retirees this month. Christine Horton, Technician, was present to receive
her award. Christine completed over 29 years of service at the Alameda and District Shops
facilities. Christine thanked everyone and stated RTD has been good to her. She
acknowledged what a big job it is to keep this agency running as well as it does and the hard
work of all to make RTD the Number 1 agency.
Director Martinez stated it was employees like Christine that made RTD the Number 1 transit
agency.
Chair Kemp stated he appreciated where Christine has started and how she had worked to get
to where she was today. Congratulations on a job well done.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
Chair Kemp recognized Artur Gorzkowski, LRT Operator, who acted swiftly during a medical
emergency and gave him a certificate and gift from the Board in appreciation for his actions.
Dr. William Gross, the rider who had the emergency, profusely thanked Artur for his actions
and said his doctor had said delay in reacting could have created catastrophic results. The
quality of training that RTD operators receive is an example of why RTD is the Number 1
agency. Chair Kemp summarized the sentiment by saying “this is where the steel hits the rail.”

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Nicholas Patrick, Denver, shared a couple of experiences he had with access-a-ride where his
pickup did not arrive late morning (1:00 a.m.) as scheduled and he was left out until the early
shift arrived around 4:00 a.m. He has been an access-a-ride user for about 8 years.
Robert Weinberg, Denver, shared a number of concerns on access-a-ride since the installation
of Route Match. He cited issues of inefficiencies in mapping, drivers traveling more miles now
than before contributing to high gas bills, manifest splits lunch either very early or late,
manifest has no records of who is ambulatory, need wheelchair assistance, blind, etc so
drivers may not be fully equipped to handle when they arrive. He challenged Board members
to put away their keys for a week and become 100% reliant on public transit so they can
better identify with these issues.
Mike Ward, Aurora, is an access-a-ride driver who cited some first-hand experiences he has

had. He stated one day he had to go from Erie, Colorado back to Aurora, Colorado with crisscrossing routes. He noticed he is logging 160 hours in 8 hour shift compared to 100 miles in
Trapeze. From a human perspective, he shared a story of one of his users who lived for her
music and her church but during the holidays, access-a-ride got her to the church 2 hours late
and she was devastated. He had other stories to share as well.
Gary Ulberg, dispatcher, echoed some of the experiences shared by Mr. Ward and stated he
challenges the statistics that have been published about the success of Route Match. After 71/2 months, the changes should be precipitous. He shared an example of a trip that ended up
being 2 hours to and 2 hours from. He also stated that people are not getting callbacks to
their complaints.
Doug Connor, former RTD employee, was granted six minutes to speak as Director Chacon
relinquished her three minutes to him. He shared his experience of being criss-crossed
including one trip where he would have to go pass his street to get to the other passenger drop
off point. He shared lots of ideas on how to minimize the criss-crossing and idle time which he
believes could save $1/2M per year.
Daisy Burks, Denver, stated “I am back”. She spoke on behalf of her dialysis friends who
were doing a little better but that something needs to be done about “will call.” She thanked
the drivers and said all of them are nice and polite. She is concerned RTD may be losing good,
polite drivers. She would also like to see the manifest include information on which users are
ambulatory, require wheelchair assistance, or may be blind.
Irma Thomas, Aurora, is a senior citizen who used to ride the access-a-ride regularly until her
layoff but now rides it occasionally. She shared her experience of getting picked up at 7:40
a.m. in the morning and the bus made 6 other stops (10-15 minutes apart) before dropping her
off at her destination about 2 hours later. Her doctor was not happy about the fact she arrived
late and this was a very expensive appointment. She feels fares have increased while the
quality of service has decreased.
Chair Kemp stated “Ms Burks summed it up-I’m Back.” He stated that while we have been
working on this program for some time to make it a viable system, we continue to have public
outcry and this appears to be recurring. Route Match is not matching. He requested Cal
Marsella to do a more thorough investigation-more root cause analysis to resolve this issue and
report back to the Board.
Director Busck stated that perhaps a review of the dispatch policy on pickup is merited. He
found the letters submitted by the driver and dispatcher to be well documented. Something is
wrong with the system and now may be the time to perform an audit.
Director Brohl stated these issues were not new. She had previously requested regular status
on Route Match. What she wants is a project plan to check this as a systemic problem (i.e.
development plan to improve by “x” % by some time.) The systemic review should provide:
 Where are we today?
 What are our expectations of moving forward including significant improvements?
 What is the “or else”? If we don’t have a fix, what is the manual process if we cannot
fix the system?
Director Chacon inquired about the accountability that had been placed on the vendor and did
they meet them. Cal Marsella responded yes they did.
Cal Marsella indicated he would need time to go back and review. However, the numbers of
complaints are down. He will look at efficiency and productivity measures and try to do a
more systemic analysis. Director Chacon indicated that the bigger concerns are the
inefficiencies.
Director Martinez noted four areas that he had heard from the comments:






Complaints and lack of responsiveness from the center-customer service needs to let
them know their complaints are not going into the black hole.
Criss-crossing of trips—why the long distances?
Better mechanism for employees/drivers to submit suggestions or ideas (such as a
suggestion box for cost saving measures).
Long delivery times for physically disabled people who are least able to handle.

Director Daly felt there is a communication breakdown and asked if the drivers
could communicate directly with the customers to let them know their status. The driver
responded they are not given the phone number on the manifest.
Director McMullen made the recommendation to move Route Match to the Contracted Services
Committee with a placeholder status as a standing item for discussion.
Director Bagley expressed it would be valuable to have a compilation of what was said.
Director Tayer thanked everyone who came to share their stories. These are compelling
stories and he appreciates the effort it took for people to come tell their stories. He also
appreciates the work of the staff on this issue.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no committee reports. Director Tayer provided a correction to page 2, 7th
paragraph, of the F&A minutes to state it should reflect his question “make sure there is no
money being left on the table.”

VI.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp provided an update from the Metro Mayors Task Force. He shared they are now
focused on how are we going to get this done. He referred the Board Members to a memo
inviting them to a joint meeting of the Metro Mayors Caucus FasTracks Task Force and the
RTD Board on 1/26/09 to hear the results of the FasTracks Public Opinion Survey. This will
also be an opportunity for the Board members to interact with the Metro Mayors (Memo
included with minutes in the Board minutes notebook).
Director Busck added it is all about partnership and building of trust and confidence in the
numbers. He thinks this has been accomplished with the ad hoc committee and everyone is
working together with confidence, trust and cooperation.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF December 16, 2008

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the December 16,
2008 minutes.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Brohl noted on the attendee list that Jeremy Utter had
been listed twice. This was corrected.

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Daly had stepped out of the room.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT



Meeting with Senators Schaffer and Romer on transit legislative issues
Cal Marsella and Chair Kemp met on January 12, 2009 with Senators Schaffer and
Romer to discuss transit legislative issues. They were briefed on the FASTER bill
which creates a number of fee structures which focuses primarily on highway. The
lobbyists have advised that we monitor this bill closely but we hold off on any
legislative action until after the Economic Stimulus Bill. This summarizes that
meeting.



Attended Boulder Transit Advisory Board meeting with Director Tayer on January
12, 2009
Cal Marsella attended the Boulder Transit Advisory Board with Director Tayer and
ferreted a number of concerns/comments about neighborhood EcoPass and
FasTracks. This meeting was well attended. Cal felt this was a productive meeting.



Addressed CASTA membership on January 14, 2009
Cal Marsella provided the annual address at the CASTA meeting on January 14,
2009. This is all the transit property around the state. We share common interest
and common desires. This was a well attended meeting in Denver.



Full Funding Grant Agreement Signing on January 16, 2009
The Full Funding Grant Agreement Signing on January 16 for about $309M marked
a major milestone for the West Corridor and lay the way for the East and Gold Full
Funding Grant Application which we still have a ways to go. The signing was
attended by several Board members, Cal Marsella and staff and was attended by
Sherry Little, Deputy FTA Administrator, and other local dignitaries and elected
officials.



Meeting with Longmont Times Call Editorial Board on January 21, 2009
Chair Kemp, Cal Marsella, Scott Reed and Karen Morales planned to meet with the
Longmont Times Call Editorial Board to have some creative exchange on RTD’s
position. Cal Marsella plans to express the Board wants to build the full FasTracks
program and we are not advocating for shorter lines. This is the message he will
carry. He hopes this will open the door for some ongoing objective dialogue.



Other Matters
Freight Train Derailment—Cal Marsella congratulated Cal Shankster and Dave
Genova in their handling of this incident. Cal stated he had gone with Scott Reed
to view the site and that things are well under control. Major escalation to replace
600-800 feet of track is going on and Herzog has mobilized its crew to fix the
issue. This is the responsibility of the railroad to pay for this. Cal Marsella stated
he was concerned about the implications of having two derailments around this site
and would be working to determine causal relationship to remedy for the future.
This is his top priority and will be taking aggressive action to determine cause and
remedy.
Director Bagley indicated he had viewed the site over the weekend and staff was
working fervently on corrective action.
Director Daly asked how was the bus bridge working and the frequency of the
service. Director Chacon queried about the bus bridge and if they were experiencing
any delay. Cal Marsella responded it depends on the time of day and traffic but
staff was on it and taking total ownership of getting the riders to the train station.
Cal stated it basically replicates the train. Communication was good and everyone
knew their job.

Director McMullen requested a followup from the first derailment to the second.

Are they similar? Does the railroad pay the full cost, etc? Cal Marsella indicated he
will be digging deeper into the costs.
IX.

PUBLIC HEARING FOR DISTRICT-WIDE ENCLAVES ANNEXATIONS
Chair Kemp read the public notice for the district-wide enclave’s annexations and asked if there
were any comments. Hearing none, the public hearing was closed.
A.

District-wide Enclaves Annexations and Assignment of Newly Annexed land to
Appropriate Director Districts
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the resolution to annex to the District nine enclaves as depicted in
the attached maps and described in the attached legal descriptions, receive any
comments from the public at the Board of Directors’ meeting regarding these
annexations, and assign the newly annexed lands to the Director districts F, G, and I,
as appropriate.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to approve the Districtwide annexation and assignment of newly annexed land
to appropriate Director Districts.
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 in favor and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda items B through J.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

Selection of Location for Posting of Board Notice
The Board hereby designates the entry way of the RTD administrative offices at 1600
Blake Street as its location of for posting of notices of all public meetings in 2009 as
required by C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(c). In addition, to the maximum extent feasible, notices
of public meetings will be posted on RTD’s website.

C.

Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to Execute
a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for the South Wing Parcel at Denver Union
Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to execute a Purchase
and Sale Agreement (PSA) for the South Wing parcel at Denver Union Station (DUS)
with the Union Station Neighborhood Company (UNSC) or an affiliated designee in the
amount not less than $1.51 million. The Board of Directors authorized the General
Manager to execute such an agreement in January 2008. The title company has made

a Board resolution authorizing the sale a requirement of closing.

XI.

D.

East Corridor Draft Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to release the East Corridor Draft Environmental Impact
Statement (DEIS) for public and agency review. This is the first of a series of steps in
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and means that the agencies are
requesting official public and agency comment and feedback on the No Action and the
Preferred Alternative and their impacts.

E.

Request for Approval to submit 2008 FasTracks Update Report to DRCOG
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve preparation of a 2008 FasTracks Update report for submittal to
DRCOG in January 2009. DRCOG has informed RTD that we may submit this report
as an interim update on the status of the FasTracks Plan to identify relatively minor
project changes that may necessitate amendments to the Regional Transportation Plan
(RTP). This report precedes the annual Senate Bill 90-208 report that is required by
Colorado Statute 32-9-107.7.

F.

Senior Oracle Database Administrator
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
in the amount not to exceed of $200,000 for services of a Senior IT Oracle Database
Administrator (DBA) (28DJ024). The contract is to be awarded to Sol-IT, a small
business, following a competitive review of twelve submitted proposals. The contract
runs for a period of one year with two additional one-year options. The contract is
being brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD
Resolution No.27, Series of 1985.

G.

Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined Contribution Plan - 2009
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors certify a 2009 contribution rate to RTD’s Salaried Employees Defined
Contribution Plan of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.

H.

May 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed May 3, 2009 Service Changes (Attachment A)
on to public review and comment.

I.

RESOLUTION NO._____, SERIES OF 2009, Decrease in Director’s TRAVEL Expenses

J.

RESOLUTION NO._____, SERIES OF 2009, Decrease in Director’s LOCAL Expenses

RECOMMENDED ACTION
K.
Purchase six ultra-low sulfur diesel 45 foot intercity buses from Coachworks Holding
Inc. and contract with Complete Coach Works to perform the structural repairs to
the1998 MCI coaches
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to purchase six ultra-low sulfur diesel 45 foot intercity
buses from Coachworks Holding Inc. for a price of $250,000 each or $1,500,000. In
addition it is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to enter into a contract with Complete Coachworks to complete the structural
repairs to the 1998 MCI fleet in an amount not to exceed $1,500,000 and to authorize
the transfer of $1,500,000 of capital from the intercity bus project to the appropriate
expense line to fund the repairs to the MCI fleet.

Chair Kemp provided a background on these buses and thanked Dean Shaklee for his
work. Chair Kemp reminded the Board that they had currently allocated $61M for
intercity bus replacement but had been working diligently looking for ways to save
money and extend the useful life of the MCIs. They had found these 6 Bluebirds buses
with larger seating capacity. The most miles any of these buses have are 8200. The
normal cost would be $400K each but RTD is getting these buses at $250K each with
repair of the remaining MCI buses for a collective cost of $3M.
Dean Shaklee shared they would be repairing about 50-55 buses at an estimated
$1.3M. When asked by Director Brohl if this cost was appropriate, Cal Marsella
responded yes.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of
Directors approve the purchase of six
ultra-low sulfur diesel 45 foot intercity
buses from Coachworks Holding Inc., and
contract with Complete Coach Works to
perform the structural repairs to the 1998
MCI coaches.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with
15 votes in favor and 0 against.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Cal Marsella acknowledged Ron Dodsworth, AGM, for finding this deal and shared that
Ron has some health issues and will be out of the office for an extended period of time.
Chair Kemp expressed appreciation from the Board of Directors to Ron Dodsworth.
XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to move
into Executive Session for the purpose to
discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e) contract
negotiations-RTD/ATU Labor Negotiations.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 6:55 p.m.

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:25 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, January 20, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Bill Bell
Carol Duecker
Sherry Ellebracht
Terry Howerter
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Scott Roberts
Cal Shankster
Greg Yates
Lisa Trujillo
Susan Wood

Susan Altes
Larry Buter
Martell Dyles
David Genova
Bob Lewis
Cal Marsella
Bill Porter
Daria Serna
John Shonsey
Liz Telford
Bill Van Meter

OTHERS PRESENT:
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Kevin Flynn (The Rocky Mountain News)
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Ed Colby – URS
Shiona Ward
Nick Patrick
Robert Weinberg
Lee Johnson – First Transit
Don Robinson – Route Match
Tom Coogan – Route Match
Richard Mouriquand
Janice Gaskin
Erika Gaskin
Howard Horton Sr.
Christine Horton
William Gross
Daryl Kinton
Mike Ward
Gary Ulberg – First Transit
Frank Cannon – USNC
Bill Hipp – MV

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

Jeff Becker
Rick Clarke
Phil Eberl
Alan Hill
Marla Lien
Robert Merriman
Scott Reed
Dean Shaklee
Bill Sirois
Pauletta Tonilas
Phil Washington

Mary Hill – access-a-Ride
Steve Roberts – Systra
Doug Connor
Rob Andresen – First Transit
Robin Kniech – FRESC
Roger Sherman - CRL
Irma Thomas
Justin Scalzi – Complete Coach Works
Peter Lorenzen
Fred Hansen – JCI
Daisy Burks
John Valerio
Rick McNeal

