Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday May 12, 2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

May 12, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 12,
2009 in Rooms R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Tayer, Directors; James, Kemp, Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, and Tobiassen

Director Martinez. Directors Pulliam and Cohen arrived late and Chair Kemp left early.

Staff Present:

Robert Merriman, Phil Washington, Terry Howerter, Scott Reed, Bruce Abel, Bill
Holmes, Dean Shaklee, Cal Shankster, Cal Marsella Dave Genova, Sue Sandoval, Paula
Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Burt Bondi and Sheryl Wallace – (Bondi & CO. LLC), Sheryl
Wallace

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m. and requested that item 2 –
“Governance Report” be moved up and combined with item 1a.
I.

Recommended Actions
a.
2008 Audited Financial Statements (Bondi & Co. LLC)
Burt Bondi introduced Sheryl Wallace who is the lead Manager on the RTD Audits. Burt
indicated that their purpose here today is to answer any questions the Board may have
pertaining to the 2008 Audited Financial Statements and to discuss process.
The financial statements were put together by RTD staff and their job was to audit
them. Bondi has provided an unqualified opinion which is the best opinion. They did
not find any exception to numbers. They did post 4.8 million in adjustments which is
small relative to the size of the budget. No disagreements with management. Did not
have any disagreement with accounting estimated and did not call on outside expertise.
Reports on federal grant dollars with one exception.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday May 12, 2009
Page 2 of 4

The audit takes place annually and the scope of the audit is everything that reflects the
financial statements of district.
Director Cohen had a question on page 83 in regards to a large variance on paper with
regards to salaries, wages and fringe benefits. Cal attributed this to an increase in
headcount. Phil Washington will provide a better explanation to the Board.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward this item onto
the May 19, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Chacon seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Governance Report (Bondi & Co. LLC)
Director Tayer had three items that came to his attention:
1. Vacation for the person who handles financial statements – is this policy. Terry
Howerter indicated that he would implement and bring back to Board as a
policy.
2. Travel receipts – are there repercussions for receipts not being turned in? Phil
Washington indicated that this issue will be revisited in senior staff once a
month to ensure this is getting taken care of.
3. References to challenges of Oracle System not recording properly.
Director Tayer requested an update memo on status of Oracle.
Phil Washington indicated that he would provide an update memo.
b.
Designation of Sales Tax Compliance Review Agent
Phil Washington indicated that this item has been discussed previously. They would
like to bring in an outside agency to audit and make sure we are bringing in sales tax.
Motion:

Director O’Boyle made a motion to forward this item onto
the May 19, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday May 12, 2009
Page 3 of 4

c.
Database Administration – Operational Systems Support
This item is exercising third option of contract which would bring in 24/7 DBA for
critical systems within district.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward this item onto
the May 19, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Brohl seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

II.

Governance Report (Bondi & Co. LLC)
Discussed under 1a.

III.

First Quarter Internal Audit Report
Bill Holmes, Senior Internal Auditor, thanked the Board for the opportunity and indicated
he was here to answer any questions that they had regarding the final report on the 4
audits that were completed in the first quarter of 2009. They are:





DUS IGA Master Plan Update
Siemens Transportation System Contract 12FR201
West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreements
Ciber, Inc. Contract 12DK004

The Board had no questions pertaining to this audit.
IV.

Response to April 14th F&A Committee Questions
Handout
The Board had some questions at the last F&A Committee meeting. Staff provided
answers to the questions in a handout which was included in their packets.
The sales tax report was also provided.
The peer-review comparison of RTD’s fare to others was distributed. Terry
Howerter asked the Board to review and come back with any questions.

V.

March 2009 Financial Status Report and 2009 Budget Update (Merriman)
Robert Merriman gave this report – please refer to handout for specifics.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday May 12, 2009
Page 4 of 4

VI.

2010-2015 TDP / 2010 Budget Development Update
Terry Howerter started working on 2009 amended budget. Work on new project
request on 2010 TDP. 2010 TDP is based on 2009 best in-house estimate. Terry
would like to complete amended 2009 budget and work into 2010 TDP and bring back
to Board together as a final project. Will be back in July and would like to have
conversation on TDP at retreat.
Budget Workshop Preview
A binder was handed out in preparation for the May 26th retreat for the Board to
review. There is an input sheet for the Board to provide comments and
recommendations prior to the retreat.

VII.

Other Matters
Cal indicated that he and Scott Reed participated in an interview with the Denver Post
that basically replicates all the work with the Metro Mayors, and assumptions that
were used on materials etc., for FasTracks. It was a lengthy interview so a substantial
story is expected.

VIII.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be
June 9, 2009.

IX.

Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting at 7:15 p.m.

