Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
April 13, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chair Hoy called the Executive Committee to order at 12:00 p.m.

II.

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 2nd Vice Chair
Deadwyler (via phone), Secretary
Walker, Treasurer Menten

Committee members absent:

Director Francone

Other Board members present:

Director Anderson (via phone)

Others present:

General Manager Genova,
Executive Manager Barbara
McManus, Board Office
Administrator John McKay

April Board Meeting Agenda Review
Motion:

Director Walker made the motion to approve moving the April
18th, 2017 Board agenda to the full Board.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chair Hoy briefly reviewed the Board agenda.
General Manager Genova proposed that the Executive Session
originally scheduled for the Operations & Customer Service
Committee (OCS) Meeting of April 11, 2017, but subsequently

canceled be added to the Board Meeting agenda for April 18,
2017.
Director Menten agreed.
Chair Hoy clarified that the motion at hand would be to
approve the draft Board agenda with the addition of the
executive session.
Director Menten asked how the language for the executive
session would read.
General Manager Genova and Barbara McManus said that the
language would be the same as that which appeared in the
OCS agenda. General Manager Genova said the Board would
likely not be as pressed for time at a Board Meeting.
Chair Hoy asked if there were any objections.
Director Anderson asked for assurances that the executive
session was intended to discuss legal issues. She noted that,
pursuant to Colorado law, only certain topics are permissible
for executive sessions. She said she wanted to make sure that
the particular matter to be discussed is a subject that could be
discussed in executive session under Colorado law.
General Manager Genova said that the matter at hand is
similar to other items the Board has discussed. He said that he
would be discussing contract requirements related to the Eagle
P3 Project.
Chair Hoy said that Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, would be
one of the main presenters and that Mr. Asphaug knows the
requirements of the open meetings law.
Director Menten asked whether discussing the matter during
an open meeting would damage negotiations.
General Manager Genova said that would be a possibility.

Vote on
Motion:

III.

The motion passed with 4 in favor (Hoy, Deadwyler, Walker,
Menten), 0 opposed, and 1 absent (Francone).

Other Matters
Director Menten stated it is her understanding that, if something were improperly
discussed during an executive session, a relevant Colorado court ruling from
Greenwood Village held that the First Amendment rights of an individual overrules
the executive session privilege. She said that the person would not be barred from
speaking to the matter outside of the meeting.
Director Anderson added that she was familiar with the lawsuit.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 12:10 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

