1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
April 13, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
Attendee Name
Larry Hoy
Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler
Jeff Walker
Natalie Menten

II.

Title
Chair
First Vice Chair
Second Vice Chair
Secretary
Treasurer

Status
Present
Absent
Remote
Present
Present

Arrived

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 2nd Vice Chair
Deadwyler (via phone), Secretary
Walker, Treasurer Menten

Committee members absent:

Director Francone

Other Board members present:

Director Anderson (via phone)

Others present:

General Manager Genova,
Executive Manager Barbara
McManus, Board Office
Administrator John McKay

April Board Meeting Agenda Review
Motion:

Director Walker made the motion to approve moving the April
18th, 2017 Board agenda to the full Board.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chair Hoy briefly reviewed the Board agenda.
General Manager Genova proposed that the executive session
originally scheduled for the Operations & Customer Service
Committee (OCS) Meeting of April 11, 2017, but subsequently
canceled be added to the Board Meeting agenda for April 18,
2017.
Director Menten agreed.
Chair Hoy clarified that the motion at hand would be to
approve the draft Board agenda with the addition of the
executive session.
Director Menten asked how the language for the executive
session would read.
General Manager Genova and Barbara McManus said that the
language would be the same as that which appeared in the
OCS agenda. General Manager Genova said the Board would
likely not be as pressed for time at a Board Meeting.
Chair Hoy asked if there were any objections.
Director Anderson asked for assurances that the executive
session was intended to discuss legal issues. She noted that,
pursuant to Colorado law, only certain topics are permissible
for executive sessions. She said she wanted to make sure that
the particular matter to be discussed is a subject that could be
discussed in executive session under Colorado law.
General Manager Genova said that the matter at hand is
similar to other things the Board has discussed. He said that
he would be discussing contract requirements related to the
Eagle P3 Project.
Chair Hoy said that Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, would be
one of the main presenters and that Mr. Asphaug knows the
requirements of the open meetings law.

Director Menten asked whether discussing the matter during
an open meeting would damage negotiations.
General Manager Genova said that would be a possibility.
Vote on
Motion:

III.

The motion passed with 4 in favor (Hoy, Deadwyler, Walker,
Menten), 0 opposed, and 1 absent (Francone).

Other Matters

Director Menten stated it is her understanding that, if something were improperly
discussed during an executive session, a relevant Colorado court ruling from Greenwood
Village held that the First Amendment rights of an individual overrules the executive
session privilege. She said that the person would not be barred from speaking to the
matter outside of the meeting.
Director Anderson said she was familiar with the lawsuit.
IV.

Adjourn

Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 12:10 p.m.

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - April 18, 2017
II.

Pledge of Allegiance

XI.

Unanimous Consent

A.

Approval of Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and Plaza Improvements Contract

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to execute the contract for Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and Plaza
Improvements with T-Bone Construction, Inc., in the dollar amount of $1,270,874.94.
Funding of this action is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget.
B.

Award of “Group 27” Contracted Fixed-Route Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with
First Transit for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit services “Group 27.” This
contract is for three years, with two one-year options for a total of 5-years, for a 5-year
cost of $128,033,723.00. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel
costs in an amount estimated to be $13,804,915.00 for the total 5-year term. The total

5-year not-to-exceed amount for the contracted fixed route transit service and fuel is
$141,838,638.00.
This recommendation represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in
response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 16-DH-055 to provide “Group 27” Public
Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective
on May 13, 2017.

XII.

Recommended Action

C.

2018 Performance Measures Adoption

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the attached 2018 Performance Measures for mission statement
goals 1-7. In 2018, there are 41 proposed performance measures to be tracked for the
GM, which is the same number as in 2017.
D.

Award of Mobile Ticketing Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new Mobile Ticketing System to Masabi LLC, in an
amount not to exceed $1,450,000. This price includes the cost for period of performance
of a base two-years and three one-year options.
E.
Approval to Enter into Agreements to Contribute Funding to the Colorado
Department of Transportation for the Mobility Choice Blueprint Technical Consultant(s)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into any and all
agreements required to provide $400,000 in Regional Transportation District funding in
support of the Mobility Choice Blueprint Study. RTD’s funds are to be used for the
technical consultant(s) selected to conduct the Study, in partnership with the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG), as articulated in this Board report.

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:

 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

