July 9, 2019 0300 PM
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
BOB BROOM: OK. It's about five after three. We might as well crank up and get started. First
item on the agenda of the General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Roll-BOB BROOM: Pardon?
DAVE GENOVA: Did you want to identify who's here or not?
BOB BROOM: Yeah. Why don't you start-DAVE GENOVA: Dave Genova, General Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, Executive Director.
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker, Board member.
VINCE BUZEK: Vince Buzek, Director of District J.
TROY WHITMORE: Troy Whitmore, District K.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C.
DOUG TISDALE: Doug Tisdale, District H.
BOB BROOM: And Bob Broom, District F.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Broom. And so, I'm not going to go through the
document in detail. I know that you've had it for some time now and you've completed the
surveys. I will say I think it's been an incredibly busy year already, an incredibly exciting and
good year for the organization. I think we've accomplished much. You've seen the comments that
the team has put together in response to all of the goals. And I'm very pleased with the
advancements that we've made this year so far, as reflected in the memo.
BOB BROOM: Any questions? OK. I guess we go on to the summary.
DOUG TISDALE: Now, at this point-DAVE GENOVA: Do you want me out?

DOUG TISDALE: Barbara can reflect. And I think for the sake of the record, we should note
that our practice is that the committee that when we discuss the survey results in the first
instance, we just do that amongst ourselves and without the General Manager being present. And
particularly, it would seem to me it's appropriate right now this year because of timing and
various other issues. We just got these for everyone to look at. So I think it gives people a chance
to do it. And I think Barbara will note also, for the sake of the record, that we're meeting again
next Tuesday. Because I don't think anybody expects the committee members to be able to read
and digest all of this in the next hour and a half or so.
BOB BROOM: I think that's fair.
VINCE BUZEK: Not after looking at 427 pages in the last two days.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you for sending that. That was fun.
DAVE GENOVA: Remind me, Barbara. So next week, am I here at next week's?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
DAVE GENOVA: OK, not at next week's. OK. Very good then. Thank you all. See you in the
next few hours.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: That was easy. Who got the Staples button?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I immediately look at my phone, make sure it's on.
TROY WHITMORE: You beat me to it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yep. 3:00 PM. Right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: 3:30.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. 3:30 of next week-TROY WHITMORE: I have finance workshop. That's the good news. The time is mopped out.
So that needs to be edited. 3:30.
BOB BROOM: Well, should we read the top level summary and then go from there? Barbara,
you said 3:30 next week?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.

DOUG TISDALE: I have had the benefit of about an hour longer than the rest of you in looking
at this. So I can share with you that they try to lay out, when the survey staff put this together,
easy ways for us to understand this without looking at all the individual surveys. Hopefully that
has worked.
But again, you will want to take time over the next week to look at this closely. I think you will
see, on the whole, it's very solid. And I think that Director Walker, as last year's chair of the
committee, could comment on this, too. It does not appear as though we had nearly the same
kind of "not sure, need information" response as we had.
And I can tell you, reading the notes for the directors who chose to leave notes on various things,
including "not sure, need new information," I did appreciate very much the comment of one or
more directors saying, I've only been here for six months. I'm really trying to get to understand
this well. And I have every sympathy with and understanding how that works. So I thought that
was very understandable and very useful.
BOB BROOM: Well, and everybody responded, all 15.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was going to say that. That's amazing because it's not been true
in the past.
DOUG TISDALE: Not always. Yeah. I think last year we did. I think last year we did get 15.
JEFF WALKER: We did have 15.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The last time I was on the Board, it was hard. Do you
remember? It was difficult to get everybody to respond.
DOUG TISDALE: So in terms of one other observation then I'll shut up. I think one of the best
things we did, it appears from the responses, was to create the open ended questions at the
beginning. If you look here on these pages, beginning at page 12, I'll tell you what. Some of us
are really long winded. And we write things out. So I think it's terrific. Because it absolutely
worked the way we said. Give people a chance to talk. So that's kind of my overview on this.
Just as I say, having had an hour more of looking at it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let the record reflect that Director Catlin and Director Menten
have additionally arrived.
BOB BROOM: Director Menten, did you get a copy of this?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. She took it.
NATALIE MENTEN: It was not in the electronic packet though, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. It was not.

DOUG TISDALE: Correct. Yeah. And I think just for the sake of the record on that as I
understand it, we just got the final compilation done yesterday. And it wasn't even ready to be
produced in hard copy until we had a chance to get the-- and I forget what we call it, but the
version-BARBARA MCMANUS: The remediated version for Director Folska.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. The remediated version. So that wasn't all done until last night.
We thought rather than throwing this at people electronically last night, give it to them today to
look at, bearing in mind-- and I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, if I may, I'll usurp some of your
summary just because I can maybe talk a little faster, which I just blew.
But we're going to meet next week to talk about these in detail. But this is a chance for people to
look together at sort of the structure and the information, and then to go back and digest it. And
then next week, we'll come back and discuss in much greater detail.
BOB BROOM: Was there any evidence that people didn't understand the questions and so forth?
DOUG TISDALE: Not from what I've seen. And Barbara, let me ask you to comment on that,
too. I have had a chance to read through some of these. There was no-- most of the time when
people said, for example, "not sure, need information" or if they said "needs improvement"-- and
there were several categories where various people said "needs improvement"-- they pretty much
articulated what they were thinking.
They did take the time, which is quite courteous and quite honestly, a little surprising. Because
quite often, people just don't do that. But the respondents did here in this case indicate an
understanding of the questions. And there didn't appear to be confusion about what was being
asked.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And very few questions were not responded to. I think one or two
didn't respond to the questions but they left the comment feeling that they needed more
information to answer the question. And one point of confusion was that some folks felt that
Dave couldn't meet a goal if it's only halfway through the year.
But the point is is that next month he could falter on that. And it could totally change by the end
of the year. But right now, he felt he was on track. So I did answer a couple of questions on the
phones for directors while they were doing the survey to reflect that. But for the most part, I
think everybody had full understanding and a lot of good comments.
BOB BROOM: This has obviously been shared with Dave.
BARBARA MCMANUS: He got a copy when we did.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, did he get it now?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.

DOUG TISDALE: And then, again just to reflect for the benefit of those who didn't participate
last year, following this committee's chance to review this-- because there may be some things,
for example, you want to say, wait a minute. That should be changed, take that out, that's a
scurrilous remark, or whatever. You have a right to do some editing like that. And to ask
questions of Barbara to pass on to staff so that we know whether or not things were scored in a
certain way, following all of that process and this committee's kind of feedback, then the Chair
of this committee and the Chair of the Board sit down with the General Manager to go over the
survey and to share the Board's thoughts.
We do that in that setting because that's not a public meeting. It doesn't have to be noticed.
Others aren't allowed. And it is, after all, a personnel review.
We then, following that, also have a session where Dave sits in with everyone, where we give
him that first shot so that we kind of distill what the committee members say and other Board
members so that he has that. And then he'll come into another open meeting and talk about it as
well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Point of clarification. Did you say that we could look at this in
and edit the responses?
DOUG TISDALE: No. No. No. I mean in terms of like striking something. If, for example, this
is pretty much a raw print, even though there is a footnote that says, of course, we fixed typos
and grammatical errors where appropriate. But if you read it and you actually found something
that was defamatory that you thought was inappropriate to be in a public document, we would
have the right to say, wait a minute. We need to redact that. We could strike, in that sense, edit.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Got it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Or reclarifying.
DOUG TISDALE: Take out something that's just, you know, scurrilous, obscene, illegal,
defamatory, et cetera.
BOB BROOM: Well, there's a lot more in terms of comments in here than there was last year for
sure.
DOUG TISDALE: Hell of a lot more.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well then, last year there was the opportunity to help Dave understand
the path forward. Because we renegotiated his contract during the sessions last year. So there
was opportunity in that. But next week when we get together and we've reviewed everything, a
lot of the comments that are going to be taken to Dave with the Chair and the Chair would be,
how does this Board want Dave to move forward, what don't they like about what has happened
the first half of the year, and what they would want him to do to remediate how they move
forward.

VINCE BUZEK: So the focus then next week would be on discussing the "needs improvement"
areas and those "needs improvement" comments, correct? Because if you're meeting or
exceeding, that's a good thing. So we'll talk more about those.
BOB BROOM: OK. That sounds good.
DOUG TISDALE: My reaction to that would include, if I may Mr. Chair though, to say it's good
to point out on the exceeds so that he does get, for one thing, at least-- because there's no other
reward that we have under our contract with him. So at least he gets that verbal reward. We see
this. We appreciate this. We encourage this. Keep it up. But you're right, it's really focused on
the "needs improvement."
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I know it's difficult for some of the folks on the Board and on
this committee because you weren't part of the process putting these expectations in place last
year. But you did have the opportunity to see what we went through last year up to and including
2020. So that you sort of get both pieces. And now you're putting it together.
BOB BROOM: Plus, only five or six months have gone by in the year. So he's still got time to
finish a lot of work that he's got underway. You can't expect everything to be accomplished in
half a year or we didn't give him enough work to do.
DOUG TISDALE: That's actually, if I may Mr. Chairman, that's an interesting observation
because some Directors have said, look, I want to have objective measures. I want to see
numbers. It's X% or a raw number of increased riders, of downloads of Transit Watch app, of
ticket vending machine sales, whatever.
Well, when you're halfway through the year, that's exactly where you are-- halfway through the
year. So you know you're not going to necessarily hit that number. That's why-- and I think we
changed this for this year-- the phrasing was, is the General Manager on track to satisfy this goal.
That's the important consideration, I believe.
JEFF WALKER: If I may?
BOB BROOM: Go ahead.
JEFF WALKER: I think it would be interesting to have this-- well, I guess we get another shot at
it later in the year-- for the midyear, to have another tally or I guess take the vote again after
some discussion, especially for those new Board members who don't feel they have all the
information, all the important-- to make a fair assessment and--, and see what that discussion
does for those members as well as existing or longer term members. See if that discussion
changes their opinion on anything, of the achievement.
BOB BROOM: So that'll take place when we do the second round. To some extent, this process
is like pulling teeth. There's a lot of people who don't really like to participate in it. So adding
another, a third, go around, I don't know how popular that is going to be.

JEFF WALKER: Yeah. I know. I guess the assumption is that we're here because we want to be
here. And we do what needs to be done because we want to do what needs to be done. That's
probably the wrong assumption. But just looking at, briefly scanning some of the answers, it
looks like some of them, in my opinion, don't capture-- some of the answers don't capture the
intent of the questions, my understanding of the questions when I helped them together. So
maybe a discussion and dialogue amongst all of us would help those people and me understand
where they're coming from, help them understand what these questions are meant to be and help
me understand why they give an answer.
So like, for one, I lost my page. But there was one, I think it was from financial management
those goals said presents a balanced annual budget, balanced mid-term financial plan, et cetera.
And someone puts "needs improvement." And I don't-- we always get a balanced budget. We
always get a balanced financial plan.
BOB BROOM: Maybe they're saying that the budgeting process needs improvement.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. So I couldn't get that from the response given. So maybe I need some
enlightening also or some understanding. But I think a dialogue would be good. And then come
back and say, let me take it again now that I know. That's how they do it at Harvard.
BOB BROOM: The budget here is really a lot more heavily done, I guess, by management as
opposed to the Board participation. And whoever, the city council or whatever, you have
numerous budget workshops dealing with specific departments and new programs and that type
of stuff before budget's put together. So they have more of a feeling of ownership in the budget.
We're presented with a document, basically, and it's yea or nay, which maybe that's what that
person was trying to get at.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. We can do line item amendments.
BOB BROOM: I know.
JEFF WALKER: I've only seen that in a handful.
BOB BROOM: I'm just saying it's different here from what it is, I guess. I'm not saying it's good
or bad.
JEFF WALKER: That's my quick opinion of looking--at-- My experience here is that that tends
to be the case after we get a new-- a new slate of Board members who don't feel they have, what
they, what they need to make a decision.
BOB BROOM: Does anybody volunteer to be on this committee, Doug? Or was everybody
conscripted?
DOUG TISDALE: Pretty much, there were one or two volunteers. The rest were conscripted.

VINCE BUZEK: So when somebody is saying, only on the Board for six months, don't really-- I
know how that works. Because we're only judging him for a six month window. And everyone
is-- even Jeff Walker-- has the same six month window to look out and measure against the
stated goal. So make an observation. I mean, make a-- but I suppose that-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, if I might. To that point, these goals were established a year ago. So
sometimes the context of those goals might not be completely understood by a new Board
member.
VINCE BUZEK: That could be.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just saying.
VINCE BUZEK: No. I understand.
PEGGY CATLIN: I mean, was in the same predicament last year, having started in March and
not having the context of how those goals were developed. It was-VINCE BUZEK: But you started-- I mean, you had three months less. So then I could
understand you not having that same window.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I get a pass.
VINCE BUZEK: You get a pass.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm just saying that that may be part of the hesitation.
VINCE BUZEK: Could be.
DOUG TISDALE: And it is interesting to note that, in terms of the narrative responses-question number one, I'll just start with that. Question number one, which is something that we
added this year to say, OK, let's just start off open ended. What do you think of the
accomplishments? We got 14 detailed responses here.
So one person apparently did not fill that out. But 14 people did. And maybe the person who
didn't might be the one who said that they can't answer because they've only been there six
months. There were 13 people who responded in the shortcomings section. And so again, that
shows a high degree of buy in and understanding of the survey.
So I think my response, I guess, to Director Walker's observation is that it's well taken and that I
think the way it ultimately is resolved is the second survey, the year end survey, when you say to
people, OK. And we can even, perhaps, dialogue amongst ourselves. I don't know if we need to
make it part of the forum. We can dialogue amongst ourselves and say exactly what Director
Buzek said. You've only been here at that point 10 months. But it's the 10 months we're judging.
So just judge on that.

BOB BROOM: Or the other thing you could do is, we'll come up with a list of things that we'll
talk to Dave about directly. And then maybe three months later, take a look and see how that
additional direction is being carried out. And I don't know. I'm just speculating.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So then would you ask for an additional response from the
Board at that point to do it?
BOB BROOM: Or maybe just this committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: I thought this meeting would give people an opportunity to do exactly what's
going on now, is do some reading. Look at this and see what you think so then, if you have other
questions you want to ask today, you can. But recognizing that we'll come back in one week and[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to be interested in reading this to see if there's any
kind of trend, like there's more than one person saying the same thing. It's hard to do right now.
DOUG TISDALE: A very valid observation.
BOB BROOM: You know, you could take issue with some of the comments that are in here,
obviously. In other words, you can't agree with what they've deduced. And you can tell, by
reading some of these, who the person is that made the comment. When I make comments, I
tried to disguise-DOUG TISDALE: I know.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: There are so many comments where directors almost reached out to identify
themselves, identifying their district. I mean, even though I don't have you all committed to
memory by districts, I have that convenient map in my office that I looked at, and, oh OK.
JEFF WALKER: We ran into this some last year and probably, I'm sure years before, where
sometimes the rating is based on the goal and not necessarily the performance on the goal. So
like core goal number one, one of the responses, last paragraph in the middle is the goal to
present a plan that's not significant to these service levels seems lacking. I would like it to be
more strategic and long term.
That's more of a comment-- and there's other stuff. There are other sentences in that comment.
But that's more of a commentary on the goal on the-- what we do and not on what the GM has
done. So I'm wondering if next year we should spend more time making sure that the goals are

stated correctly so that we're measuring what we actually want to measure or if our
understanding needs to be adjusted to what the goals are.
BOB BROOM: Well, you know, next year, we're going to be talking about ridership. And that's
going to be problematic because right now ridership is going down. I mean, is it going to be
acceptable for it to just level off? Or is it acceptable for the curve to turn? And then, what's the
price of gasoline, and all of these other variables that go into this thing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct me, but how many drivers do we have? And I think
that's a big one.
JEFF WALKER: Right. So yes, there are a lot of variables and things within the GM's or the
agency's control, some that are beyond it. But whatever we want to measure, are we measuring
the right things, controlling as much as we can, controlling for those variables?
So that's just a misunderstanding. It's a comment or a type of comment that I've seen definitely
last year, I'm sure the years before. I'm just not remembering years before. But it seems that
comments are on the goal instead of the performance. I think that needs to be corrected.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, Mr. Chairman, thank you. One thing that I would like to ask, that I
think both the Chair and I would appreciate in terms of having a sit down with the General
Manager, is next week-- if you've had a chance to digest this-- using these data but also your own
understanding and analysis, to be as specific as you can in giving to the committee Chair and the
Board Chair instructions on what you would like communicated to Dave.
Recognize it is sort of your opportunity to exercise the number one job that this Board has which
is to run that man, to manage that person. That's the number one thing a Board does, is to make
sure it's got a CEO who's doing the job. So this is your chance to speak out.
But that means give us something specific. Don't just say, I think you should be more outgoing.
You should be friendlier-- whatever it may be. I'm making examples up. I don't imply by any of
those that that would be what you would say. But I do think that the more specific you can be
would really help us in communicating with Dave and saying, OK, here's what the committee
thinks, with benefit even of Board input from other members of the Board who choose to attend
as you're welcome to do. This is what you should be focused on.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, because he'll have a chance-- he'll read two or three times, I'm sure. But
you keep-- Board feels like-DOUG TISDALE: What do we see out of it?
BOB BROOM: Right.
JEFF WALKER: So it's me again-- talking here-BOB BROOM: Well, we've got a lot of time to kill here. So just jump right in.

DOUG TISDALE: We don't have to kill it all in the meeting.
JEFF WALKER: Page 26, core goal number three, additional comments, "needs improvement,"
the first one. Brought different opportunities to GM and Chair Tisdale. They could very well get
us to the next level when people bring opportunities, et cetera, et cetera.
Some of the comments seem to-- we're politicians and we should politic. And two people can't-well, one person can't move the mountain. It takes all 15. Takes that one person to hit 15 stones
to move him, or 14 other stones to move him. And then that's where the traction is. But it's not-all of the responsibility shouldn't rest on the shoulders of GM when we're the ones that tell the
GM what to do. And through this task, this tactical plan how to do it. That's the kind of thing that
I've noticed. I said this, it didn't get done. So shame.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I can see their perspective in terms of this is their way of
bringing forward information that impacted their rating. You know what I mean? This is their
perspective. And so this is the way they're going to share that information, right or wrong. Right?
So I think it's valid in that sense, that that's the only way they know how to do it at this point.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's their frame of reference.
JEFF WALKER: Right. And I guess I'm thinking that if I have a great idea, I should try and get
everybody on board with that idea instead of not just --the GM -- So if they don't do it, I'm
saying well, they didn't get it done. When really, I didn't get it done. Because I didn't get-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure. And I understand that. But you know, this is my
opportunity to write what I feel as a Director. And this might be the venue that I think is the first
place to go. I mean, I think it's a learning curve knowing that you need to work with all Board
members to move policy forward. But I could see where someone uses this to just get it out there
to start with.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I see that.
BOB BROOM: Well, you know, we represent the public, too. The public perception of RTD, in
some instances like the G9 and so forth, is that we're not very good stewards. Because we put all
that money and it sat there for two years, and wasn't being utilized.
And why does it take two years to fix a bug in the software? I mean, those are the kinds of things
you hear from people. There may be lots of reasons. And there are lots of reasons. And so you
can't say the place is running like perfect clockwork. Obviously, it's not. Because you know,
there are some major things out there. But given the circumstances, I don't know what the Board
could have done to speed up that process through the PUC and all that stuff. No
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. Agreed. But I think that people's perceptions are their
realities. And so this might be the first place. I also think this is a learning experience for all of us
as we move forward, especially since there's so many new Board members, on how we kind of
go through this process. So I actually see it as positive because they're actually writing how they

feel. And I think that's really important. Because that develops trust and comradery. And I think
that that's really what we're aiming for.
BOB BROOM: Well, the Board, it has the average experience level probably of three plus years
because of the turnover that goes on over time. A lot of other organizations have a lot longer
duration of people. So they have an opportunity to learn a lot more.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think collaboration from this committee with the other Board
members in gaining understanding both ways is very important. I know some of the Directors
listen to this meeting or go to the transcript to find out what goes on. Some don't. Some have
questions that come to me. And you probably have questions that go to you as committee
members as to how things are moving along. And it's just important that we all collaborate and
gain understanding.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, Mr. Chair. I want to point out if you will look at page 44 and page
45, looking at page 44. It's just I want to explain something that looked like an anomaly to me.
And I had Barbara check with staff. And they explained it.
On page 44, you'll see "needs improvement," there is an N of 2 there. So two people scored
"needs improvement." Turn the page to page 45, "needs improvement," there's an N of 1.
VINCE BUZEK: But two comments.
DOUG TISDALE: And you say, wait a minute. But there's two comments. That's right. And so
staff advises-- and let me make sure I get this right-- that one person chose to check off the
reason or the thing where it needs improvement replied. But both people provided a comment. It
was two people. It's just one of them didn't bother scoring what it was, specifically, that they
thought that needed improvement.
So there might be some other anomalies in the data as you go through them. So just understand
that it ultimately does add up. But it may not at first glance. And I just wanted to explain this one
thing that I saw. And that's why I asked the question. I wanted to share that with you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was curious, just the core goals summary, core goal number three, strong
financial management, there were four "needs improvement."
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What page?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's five and six. And yet task goal number three, f-- fiscal sustainability,
there are only two that needs improvement and 13 that said achieved goal. It just seemed to me
that there was a disconnect there. Strong financial management and ensure fiscal sustainability.
Because it seems to be they're tied to each other. But then, probably have to go back to the task
goals to see what supports it. But I just noticed that.

DOUG TISDALE: No. It's a good thing you noticed. Because what you'll see is that whereas
there were four people who scored Dave "needs improvement" on the core goal, there were only
two who scored him as "needs improvement" on the task goal.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. So I just thought there was a disconnect there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I noticed this year as opposed to last year, there are a lot more
specific comments.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, there was no opportunity to put them in last year. We added
those fields this year. So it's good thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think it's really good. Because it provides a context. Most comments were
made in this setting, in the meeting, with not the whole Board participating. I'm really pleased to
see that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it's all an evolution. I mean, last year the committee had a
different composition. And the Board as a whole really felt that they wanted the survey to only
take 20 minutes. And so, we, from the year before, I think we took out one field but we added
two new fields. And this year we left those new fields in. And then we gave them the opportunity
to put their comments along the way.
PEGGY CATLIN: I can tell you, it took a lot longer than 20 minutes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Well, in my emails I said that. I said, this year you have to plan
more time. The committee feels that we need the opportunity to hear more extenuating
comments. And you don't have to put the comments in. But for those that wanted to, we're
offering that. And it's probably going to take 30 to 45 minutes, I think was the range that our
team up there evaluated across all the surveys that they've done.
BOB BROOM: Yeah. The emphasis last year was time wise, it was more on the contract renewal
as opposed to this. So it's a little bit different.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, and I believe it's fair to say, without being accused of telling tales out
of school because we talked about this at the time, there was one Director who got through the
survey in about 12 minutes because they just checked either "don't know" or "needs
improvement" on everything. It's almost on an alternating basis, and just got through the survey.
And there were no open ended questions.
So it's pretty easy to get through it quickly if you want to. But this one, I think, beginning with
what some might view as an intimidating but apparently most of our Directors as viewed as a
very inviting large, open box on the first page, it kind of rolled from there.
PEGGY CATLIN: I want to say, I think this is a big improvement over last year in terms of
garnering substance.

JEFF WALKER: Yeah. I think it was open ended questions at the beginning that helped a lot.
Like Miss McManus said, this has been evolving since I've been on the Board back in '11, '12.
It's changed some degree every year I think. And I expect next year there'll be some other
changes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The statistical results from, I guess, four years ago and it was the
same when you were on the Board, Director. The results didn't give us anything to go on. There
was no valuable end goal.
I had to gain some understanding of surveys. And I did that with our team. I spent time with our
team because they didn't understand what we were trying to do. I had to portray that to them.
And then they had to say, well-- and you were part of this, Director, last year-- you know, there
were a couple of questions that they felt, this has no value. We have to just totally change how
we're doing it. So I think we're in a good place.
PEGGY CATLIN: The one thing I asked last year was whether or not there was a 360 review
amongst staff, particularly in the leadership where, at least with the SLT, that there could be
some-- just a counter balance. I know staff does not review the General Manager's performance.
But it can provide some insight into team building and a lot of the things that they're doing. So I
know that it's expensive. And I just didn't know if there was any way to incorporate that kind of
feedback into the overall.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I mean, this committee can request anything of staff that it likes. But
if that's something we want to do moving forward-PEGGY CATLIN: I don't if the committee feels that would be helpful.
BOB BROOM: Kind of the way I look at it is the last couple of years with seven different lines
and stuff under construction and probably a workload 40% more than what the capacity of the
staff was to do it, I wouldn't want to add anything on there. But we're going to be more in just an
operating mode in the next year or so. And you can take some more time to do those kinds of
things.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, and we're also looking at more innovative and we're looking toward the
future. So that might be an opportunity for the senior leadership team to provide input into
whether or not the General Manager is being visionary and some of those types of discussions.
BOB BROOM: We've had a lot of turnover at senior management level, too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So just for a point of clarification, are you asking that the senior
leadership also evaluate the General Manager?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. It wouldn't be the same criteria. It would just be providing pieces for
input into some of these categories, like communication, some of the team building, and EEO
opportunities. I can't find it. Strong ethical-- vision, forms cohesive team, regular team building

sessions, builds and maintains effective executive team and handles conflict. That would be an
area where I would see possible staff input and not a lengthy survey.
And I only come at this because I managed a large group and we had a Board of directors we had
to report to. And so my team did a 360 review. And that factored into my performance
evaluation in addition to the real specific metrics. And I learned a lot from it. Sometimes you're
so insulated in terms of what you think you're doing well. And it helps to get some feedback
from your direct reports.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I think there's opportunity for the entire Board to interface with
all of the AGMs and maybe gather some of that information and take the opportunity to bring it
back to this committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's a good point, though. I'm more of an ad hoc.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I guess my assumption would be if I'm the General Manager, I
would go to my senior leadership team and go through this and see how they feel. Because that's
my team that I'm going to. I would go to Paulette and say, what's going on. So I kind of see it in
his area of doing an in-depth check in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, and I agree for the most part. Although sometimes there's some benefit
to having touchy or maybe uncomfortable issues brought in an anonymous vein. And I don't see
that with Dave because I think he can have those conversations, even broach difficult
conversations. But sometimes, it just might be-- I don't know. It was just a suggestion. This
committee can decide.
JEFF WALKER: I think it's a good suggestion. I got some of that. I got to do some of that last
year when we were negotiating the contract with Mr. Genova because we needed input from all
sources on what needs to be in-- included, et cetera. So I did some of that. I thought it proved
valuable. I should have shared some of the comments I got with Mr. Genova during that process.
Like, this is what the staff, the staff that I have spoken with would like to see.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So would you just leave that up to the SLT? Or would you expand
that to all employees? Because it seems to me you'd have to do one or the other.
JEFF WALKER: I'd say just SLT. And they could get it from their employees, they report to,
that would take forever with 3,000 people. But I think it'd be beneficial. I mentioned last year
when I was chairing this thing that maybe we should get a review also to see how we're doing.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JEFF WALKER: I think that is way too long to go without a check.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

VINCE BUZEK: I like Peggy's idea. I think it could be useful. You might find that what we see
in here is really different in some areas of what staff sees in here. I don't know if that's the case. I
mean, I doubt it but you never know.
JEFF WALKER: We're not cleaning buses at 1:00 AM.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, we're not.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I also think it is-- I think I would rather do it formally like
this rather than going individually to people and saying, hey, so what do you think king of thing.
I think it needs to be a formal thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, then you would-- the context would be consistent
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: There's things that fall through the cracks. A good example is I thought we were
going to be notified when there were major incidences. Well, in the paper there was a guy that
got shot by the cops and killed right after he busted out a windshield on an RTD bus. Now, that's
a major incident to me, that RTD was involved tangentially with this guy getting shot down
there.
BARBARA MCMANUS: One Board member was a little more than tangentially.
BOB BROOM: Were you on the bus?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah.
BOB BROOM: Oh, my gosh.
VINCE BUZEK: He was part of it.
DOUG TISDALE: It was Director Walker who used Transit Watch to connect with the transit
police. And it's my intention during other matters in finance this evening just to mention very
briefly, without extending the remarks at all, but just to point out the Transit Watch was very
good. And thanks to the quick thinking of Director Walker, it did a great thing. And actually Fox
News reported on this just the other day, locally, that we had used that app to great purpose with
Director Walker. I know he doesn't want to talk a lot about it.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't blame you.
BOB BROOM: I don't blame you either. I wouldn't want my name out there.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I do think that anytime something big happens like that, I
hear it from the news. I don't hear it from RTD. And that's kind of disturbing.
DOUG TISDALE: That is clearly one of the things that you almost quoted-- and may be yours, I
don't know. I'm not trying to identify. But you almost quoted one of the remarks that I noticed in
here earlier. And I think we all are very focused on that and making sure what's the best way to
do this.
And I know that in connection with that, because you guys know and many of you do the same,
but I use social media a lot. And I know that staff is working hard to make sure that we are even
more vibrant on Twitter and things like that to get the word out. Because it seems to be having a
positive impact on communication.
BARBARA MCMANUS: If you have Twitter.
JEFF WALKER: So having just experienced something like that, there's a lot of information
going around. And I was there for a good part of it. And I couldn't give you an accurate
description of what happened when I was being interviewed. So I would rather have something
happen, don't know what, we'll get back to you than well, I'd rather hear it from the news than
have our people try to report something inaccurately.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm not asking for in-depth stuff. I would just like a heads up.
Like, there's something coming down the pike. Heads up. You'll hear more information for us.
But just a heads up would be nice.
PEGGY CATLIN: And we're getting some of that lately. I've seen more of that recently, just a
heads up. Don't know a lot about it. But here's what's happened.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yep. We have started.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mike did it the other day. Yeah. Exactly. I think that's a trend that we need to
continue.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. And I've noticed that also, that there's more, but-- What I was told that
day conflicted with what was my experience.. That is tough to back-- oh, well, you said this but
this is what really happened.
BOB BROOM: Well, was there an altercation on the bus?
JEFF WALKER: There was a disturbance on the bus.
BOB BROOM: Because see, a lot of people say, I'm afraid to ride RTD buses. And this just
reinforces-BARBARA MCMANUS: Amplifies that, yeah.

DOUG TISDALE: Reinforces that.
JEFF WALKER: I was on the bus that afternoon and I was on it the next morning.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, you're on it all the time.
DOUG TISDALE: That's the thing. He is on it all the time and he is a Director. Respectfully,
Mr. Chairman, if I may just call for you orders of the day. It is something that I know people
would like to talk with Director Walker about. But perhaps not in an open recorded meeting.
They can have a private conversation.
The one area where this does tie in is core goal number five, effective communications and
community outreach. And it is interesting that there were four people-- I'm looking at page five
now, the summary. There were four people who did say "needs improvement." By the same
token, there were four people who said "exceeds expectations." So I guess there's no accounting
for taste.
BOB BROOM: Well, somebody saw some improvements coming through. And they were trying
to say that as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I also think that that one is kind of interesting to me. Because the
communications department got revised a very short time ago. And so even longer than-- I mean,
we've been here as new Board members longer than the new communications department has
been implemented. So I think that that's really interesting in terms of that piece.
BOB BROOM: The graphics are really good in here.
DOUG TISDALE: It does help.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. That's really helpful.
TROY WHITMORE: Did you see on this page-- we talked about the bottom end. But then look
at the top end, we have three "exceeds" on page five. And then no "exceeds" --thirteen--yeah. So
that's kind of odd.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's a disconnect in my mind.
BOB BROOM: Maybe it's the way the questions are drafted.
JEFF WALKER: Which one was that?
PEGGY CATLIN: The one I brought up earlier about financial sustainability.
TROY WHITMORE: On page five and six.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is it real big-BARBARA MCMANUS: So I think what might be helpful, having looked at this earlier today
myself for the first time, is that I send to this committee just sort of a cheat sheet of all the goals
with the listed elements. So it's right, front, and center but you can charge things back.
BOB BROOM: That would be helpful. Good idea.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then next week when we are reviewing this, we can reference it
in front of us. I think that would be helpful.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can you send it to those of us who are non-voting members?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll send it to the full Board. Because we'll get this soft copy of this
sent out later today. We just were waiting for the remediated copy for Director Folska. That's
why they couldn't you go out earlier.
DOUG TISDALE: And I will personally ask each Director, please to use your discretion and
judgment. Yes, we're sending it to all members of the Board. No, it is not a privileged and
confidential document. There is not a legal prohibition against sharing.
But it does represent the unvarnished observations of 15 elected officials concerning their
highest appointed official. And I just think that good judgment would lead us to a conclusion this
is not something that we share openly. But rather that we use it as a working tool for us to do our
jobs well, to help him do his job well.
NATALIE MENTEN: Our number one goal for 2020 is transparency.
DOUG TISDALE: I hear what you're saying. But I want to share that in terms of saying it really
is, I think, a matter of respect. I think it's a matter of effectiveness too. I think it's far more
effective if we don't broadcast it. I understand if you feel compelled to share it with someone. I
didn't say that it was in any way prohibited. But I ask for judgment and discretion.
NATALIE MENTEN: Understand. But I'll just also mention that the chain doesn't stop here in
this seat. The constituents that I've got, like in Golden and Wheat Ridge, that's where, then to the
top of the chain, whatever you want to-- just mentioning. I don't know that I'll share it. But just
putting out that I would feel-BOB BROOM: You really run the risk that people won't be candid and fill these things out if
they think that it's being probably disseminated. Because any newspaper reporter that's got any
kind of an inclination against RTD could make a big story out of it, all of the negative things that
are in here. And we'd get no balance whatsoever. We'd get zero balance in that kind of a process.
NATALIE MENTEN: May I ask a question then? This is going to be published when this goes
to the full Board, won't it?

BOB BROOM: Well, you know, they're going to have to find it on their own. It's the way I look
at it.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's not going to be published for the public?
BOB BROOM: I don't know. Answer that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Was it last year?
NATALIE MENTEN: We have always published it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Was it last year?
JEFF WALKER: I think so. I don't remember but I think it was.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So in the sequence of things, this is what has happened in the past. It
wouldn't be shared now. It would be shared after the Chair and the Chair speak to Dave. Then it
would become public, but not before.
DOUG TISDALE: I mean, it will be available.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And that's the way it has been done in the past.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. It will be available. It will be published. We ask for discretion. And
that's why I said also, review it because if there are libelous, slanderous, scurrilous,
inflammatory, inappropriate remarks in there, we can redact in that sense. And we can redact
such material.
But no, ultimately it gets out there. I'm just saying let's exercise some discretion and judgment as
we go through this process to make sure everybody does have a chance to see it and read and see,
wait a minute. This is something that's absolutely horrible for this to be in here. We need to
redact this.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I think that the opportunity to have the discussion with Dave and
provide some context then would be helpful for people having to answer questions to the public.
So I think the sequence makes sense.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. And thank you for reminding me. It's available but it wasn't-BARBARA MCMANUS: So in the packet for next week, the results of the survey will be in
there as a confidential item. Meaning when you Directors sign in-- just like when you look at the
2B calendar and all those other items, they're confidential, no one else can see them, they're just
for your view-- you'll be able to see the survey. Then after the team speaks to the General
Manager and there's clear understanding of the path forward, then we take the confidential stamp
off. And we republish. And it's out to the public.

PEGGY CATLIN: I think that's just common courtesy, with regard to the General Manager.
JEFF WALKER: And these comments capture a moment in time, the thoughts involved, feelings
involved, perspective involved pro/con perspective. This is still a work in progress, just like the
questions are a work in progress, so are our thoughts on the progress of the agency.
BOB BROOM: Appraisals of other employees within the district aren't published, are they?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. But a question to Director Menten. Last year did you do that
as well? What you're talking about in terms of sending it to your constituents?
NATALIE MENTEN: I believe I published it on a website.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Okay. So, you did it after the process?
NATALIE MENTEN: Whenever I got around to it. That could have been who knows at one
point or another. But I do it with various documents, I think. Even for my own reference, to
easily find something, sometimes in our large volumes-- then I'll post something.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: But I know in the past I have felt that there have been some issues with
our transparency when it came to the General Manager Oversight Committee and when things
were published. So, it's something of concern to me, which is partly what led to-- we've
addressed many times when the legislature came to talk to us in 2010 about the handling of the
General Manager, the changes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I remember that well. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: We're not getting paid by the hour here. So unless somebody else has got
anything they want to bring up?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So if anybody-- I'll send that document out. I'll try to get it to
everyone today. If any questions come up, call me, call the Chair, call Chair Broom. Through the
week as you're reviewing, if you see something that you have a question on, that you think isn't
quite right, I can certainly go back to that team and figure out what the differences are, what the
explanation is. They know better because they have the raw data in the background. So thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Well, we're adjourned. Thank you, everybody.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

