July 9, 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: On-- I'm going to read it, I think.
It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract with Transdev for the
provision of contracted fixed-route transit services, Group 29. This contract is for three years with
two one-year options, for a total of five years.
The initial three-year contract amount for service is $85,326,407.00. The option year one amount
is $30,560,167. The option year two amount is $31,742,845. It's part of our training to learn to
read these numbers. The total five-year not to exceed amount for service is $147,629,420.
In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor's direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
$9,614,906.14 for the initial three-year contract term. No, there's no $0.14. I just thought since it
was estimated that-TROY WHITMORE: Seeing if we were on our toes. Keep us on our toes.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: $3,356,141 for option year one and $3,435,828 for option year two. The total
five-year not to exceed amount for fuel is $16,406,875. The total five-year not to exceed amount
for the contracted fixed-route transit service and fuel is $164,036,295.
This recommended action supports the following general managers' goals. Core goal number one- successful delivery of transit services. And task goal number three-- to ensure fiscal
sustainability.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That would be Director Broom and Director Malpiede. Too late,
Shontel. Sorry.
OK, I'm going to open it up for some presentation. I think, maybe, we already have read it all. Why
don't we just go straight to questions and see if anybody has any questions on this whole issue.

TROY WHITMORE: Move quickly
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. There are no questions. Do you have a question? We have no questions.
We all did our homework. We understood it. We read it. We're going to go to a vote. Let's vote on
this.
That would be Director Broom, Director Malpiede. Look at that. We have unanimous-- gentlemen,
we have passed unanimously.
TROY WHITMORE: Good presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: We thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. It was a great presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, we like that. All right. OK, now we're going to go to-- goodnight, ladies
and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us.
[LAUGHTER]
You guys-- no problem. We love you. See you. Bye.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: They don't know that we understood. We read it. We read all 439 pages
beforehand. We have some updates now, and I think we will need to go through some of those.
North Metro Quarter Bus Operations Service Plan, take it away. Please introduce yourself when
you speak.
NATALY HANDLOS: Good evening. Nataly Handlos, Service Development, North Team. I'd
also like to introduce a couple of my colleagues who've been working with me on this plan. We
have Tegan Rice, Lead for Rail Team right now. Mo Sullivan has already left, but Rail Team
Service Plan-JESSIE CARTER: Nope, there's Mo. Mo's there.
NATALY HANDLOS: There's Mo right there. Sorry, didn't see you. So Rail Team as well. And
then Sage Thornberg, who's our Service Planner/Scheduler as well for North Team. They've done
a tremendous job over the last year in helping put this together. Just we'll keep this short as best as
possible. We don't need that.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALY HANDLOS: There it is. A little slow. OK, just the basics real quick. 13 miles of
commuter rail, 7 stations, which will include Union Station-- Denver Union Station. Minor typo-there are not six new park and rides, but only five, as 48th and Brighton does not have parking.

And the travel time between Union Station and Eastlake at 124th will take approximately 29
minutes one way, so about an hour round trip.
Rail operations frequency to point out, mainly, is that there is an extended peak, where we're going
to have 20-minute headways, or 20-minute frequency, which is that peak service is quite a bit more
extensive than what we usually consider peak. So starting at 4:00 AM and going until 8:30 AM,
and then starting early in the afternoon at 3:00 PM going into the evening at 7:00 PM is about an
hour and a half to two hours extra on each end, so actually provides quite a bit more peak service
than for regular fixed-route services.
There are 19 routes that are included in this. Seven of these are current routes that will have sections
that will be renamed and will be separated out in order to allow for better resource efficiencies and
flexibility in scheduling. I don't know if you want the specifics, but the 41L, the 49, 88L, 93L,
104L, 120L, and 520 are the ones that we will separate out. There is one new route that we will
call the 114.
For route adjustments in general, no full route replacements. So all the routes that are currently
there, all the corridors that are currently in place will basically remain. There will be no changes
to routes 120X or 122X along the I-25 corridor. There will also be no changes to road 104X from
Commerce City.
The route RX will be curtailed as proposed at US 85 and Bridge Street. And the piece of the RX
that currently operates with in Brighton is proposed to be replaced by this new route that currently
also operates as the 120. We would call it the 520. So it would be a current Route 120 plus the inservice hours that are currently operating on the RX within Brighton. So it would be a service
increase for Brighton. We're also proposing to provide service Saturday and Sunday, which they
currently do not have, hourly. So it would be quite a significant increase for Brighton.
The other current routes, as listed, will have route extensions to the new stations. And then what
we call the new routes-- again, these are the pieces of current routes that would be replacing
sections of them in order to allow for that flexibility for the efficiencies and scheduling. Again,
one new route, the 114.
The 114 would operate between US 36 and Church Ranch to Front Range Community College.
Although there is the chance that we would extend it to Wagon Road, as there are some challenges
of operating on Front Range Community property. We're working with them in regards to several
other routes to use the turnaround that has been in place for a while, but there are some concerns
of us operating on their properties. So we will not just assume that we would end the route there,
but we'll look to potentially extend it. That would also create a new connection between US 36
and the I-25 corridor that currently doesn't exist.
As for meetings, we've been at this for about a year and a half overall but have been meeting with
agency representatives as of last November. We've been holding biweekly meetings since
February. So we have met with them-- community by community with the representatives as it
would relate to the stations and gone through the service plan as proposed, have had the
communications with them as to what we would think would be best, then taking into account the

development and so forth that they have coming online as to what potential route adjustments
should be considered.
So at this point, they have seen the plan. They have been fully involved, and they're fully on board
as what we're moving forward as proposed.
We put this presentation together. We were in the middle of coordinating several public outreach
meetings. We're looking to hold them to week of August 19th, and I actually have the dates
specifically. We have meetings set up Monday, August 19 at Thornton City Hall at 6:00 PM,
Wednesday, August 21st at North Glen Rec Center, 6:00 PM, and then Thursday, August 22 here
at RTD at noon, and at 6:00 PM.
As just the general resource impacts-- that table, I know, is really small and fine print. But bottom
line is that this impact would be resource neutral, as we would take the savings from the G line
and invest those in the N line. As you probably know, there was no specific budget attached in fast
tracks for bus operations to the N line, so we're having to find those resources otherwise. And as
we're having the savings from the G line going into effect in August, we would have those
resources available for the N line when it comes online in spring 2020. I think that is still pretty
quick.
Otherwise, just timeline, basic. As mentioned, we've completed the meetings for three agency
representatives. We have completed that draft Proposed North Metro Corridor Service Plan, which
I believe everybody received in their packet. We're here tonight to propose to you-- or move
forward with the proposed changes.
What we have left are the meetings coming up in August. Then taking any input received from
those meetings and making potential adjustments to the proposed plan. Then come back to the Ops
Committee on October 22 and to the full board on October 29 for, hopefully, approval and then
implementation in spring 2020.
And that's all I have. Questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That was great. Anybody have anything they want to input? Want
to output? You can raise your hand up. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. Hi, Nataly. Let me see. I spaced it.
NATALY HANDLOS: All right, you know where to find me.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I know what it was. It was brilliant.
[LAUGHTER]
20-minute headways-- how come we're doing that instead of 15, when you read that 15 is the end
of the amount of time that people don't feel like they need to look at their watch? They can just go,
and it seems to really help ridership. So why do we do 20, which is 5 minutes beyond that time?

JESSIE CARTER: That's actually-- sorry, this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. That's a really good question. However, in looking at the actual structure and the
number of single track areas along this corridor, our maximum frequency that we can actually
operate on the quarter is about 20 minutes. That's the greatest frequency we can see with the current
infrastructure.
At the same time, I'd also caution that the corridor, when you look at the area surrounding it,
wouldn't necessarily support, from a ridership standpoint, a 15-minute service frequency during
the peak at this point.
JUDY LUBOW: So that's an interesting point, because I know for the Northwest Rail, they're
saying that 20 minutes is basically all that could fit also. But that's for a different reason. That's for
some-- having to do with the bottleneck, I believe, at Union Station.
JESSIE CARTER: Right.
JUDY LUBOW: That's not the reason that you're doing this.
JESSIE CARTER: It's not the same reason. But it's similar in that the track structure-- in other
words, there's a lot of single track associated with this particular corridor that disallows us from
being able to do greater than a 20-minute frequency.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, OK. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. OK. I would just like to check. Considering what we've
encountered on the R and H, or the southeast extension in the R line, that we are, because of federal
funding-- and I'm going to just depend on you to answer this in case I might be missing something.
In the case of the R and the southeast extension, we are forced to run headways that are not justified
by the ridership. Is there anything that we would encounter in this scenario if that were to happen?
JESSIE CARTER: I'm going to have to defer and double check, but I think that this corridor is not
funded with federal dollars. It's primarily local dollars on this particular corridor, so we're not
locked into that sort of grant with the FRA or FTA.
DAVE GENOVA: If I may, that's correct. So this is all local money, so there's no FTA grant
agreement like we have for E, F, and R.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Seeing nobody else-- yes, sir, Mr-MICHAEL FORD: Just a comment. In terms of the outreach and engagement, we will also be
working with Marketing and Communications, not just communicating just that but other RTD

relevant issues. So we'll be working with Paulette, and her team, and others. I just wanted to make
sure I said that.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. And I have one other thing that I have to make sure I say as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
JESSIE CARTER: So if it pleases the board, in reviewing the draft service plan, you may have
seen some dates listed in there as far as the opening of the corridor being listed as to 2018. That's
because this was actually taken from the original report, which was completed somewhere around
2015 or so. With that, we will be updating the report. And we'll be updating any information that
we put out to the public that will reflect a date that's a little later than that. So I did want to make
sure we got that out.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. OK, seeing nothing else up there, I think we'll move
on to the next item, which is service availability June 2019. Are we changing players at the table?
OK.
And again, I'm going to point out that we do, as a board, get some very good information in advance
of this meeting. I'm hoping that everybody did review that all the way through page 439, and that
you will have your questions ready, and that we can move through this information.
So gentlemen, if there's anything that you feel like you want to tell us, we don't want to short
change your opportunity here. But if you feel like you have faith in our ability to read, then we
have looked at what you gave us. And we could move directly to questions unless anybody has an
objection to that. OK, I'm going to go right to Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm looking at the recruitment and retention of bus
operators, and it's certainly going in the right direction still. But then when I go to the lost service
hours, while it's much better than what it was the last two years, it's creeping back up. Any insight
into that?
FRED WORTHEN: I can give you a bit of insight into that. Part of what's driving some of our
challenges with service availability is the mandating. When we have people working six days a
week, at some point it takes a toll on absenteeism, workers compensation, things like that. So even
though we have a higher headcount, the staffing availability has gone down a little bit. We've also
had a number of special events over the last month-- some rail bridges and some other things that
have created challenges for ourselves.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIO FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. I've gotten a lot of phone calls-- anonymous
phone calls from drivers, and they're just fed up. And they're the newer drivers, so they don't have
the hierarchy, the seniority. And they've been mandated to work six days a week for the last five
years. This is what they're telling me. And they don't ever get two days off in a row, and they can't
function anymore.

And it's not the people that have seniority that are doing this heavy lifting. Those routes are being
done, filled up, and then it doesn't go up there. And so the comments that I get are that there is a
deep sense of resentment, of inequity, and unfairness.
And they're willing to do it. They love RTD. Don't get me wrong. They really love RTD. And they
even said to me, if we could have one weekend a month, just one, I could do this. But they feel-the ones who have called me-- that they're the only ones towing this rope, and they're not sharing
the burden with anybody else, including staff, that you all are sitting around eating bonbons. I
know you're not, but that's their perception, and that's their reality.
And so I think it's going to be very difficult to continue to try to recruit people, even with a $2,000
signing bonus when they're not sharing the burden with other people. And I think it's unreasonable
to think new people can do that whole thing.
The other piece that concerns me-- and so I'm encouraging you to look into this one weekend a
month. I mean, if they got that, then they would know they've been heard. And they're not feeling
like they're getting heard, and they're hurting. And they know the union has something to do with
this too, so they're not happy with them either.
But then there's the operators. And I think we're about 50 operators short. Is that right?
FRED WORTHEN: We're more than that, ma'am. Let's see. We are about 95 operators short.
CLAUDIO FOLSKA: So what are we going to do in the North Metro Line opens, because they
are even harder to recruit and retain, primarily because we don't have any time on the rail to train
them. Right?
FRED WORTHEN: I can't speak for the rail. I have to let Dave Jensen answer that.
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. I'm not quite sure I understood
the question. We have time-CLAUDIO FOLSKA: I mean, we operate our trains for so many hours that we hardly have hours
to train people.
DAVE JENSEN: Well, for North Metro, we'll be hiring before we open. So we're going to hire,
train, and we'll have the operators in place before that opens.
CLAUDIO FOLSKA: Well, even for the other operators and the light rail, I mean, we're still short.
And part of the problem is we put a lot of money in training them, and they don't stay, and they go
someplace else.
DAVE JENSEN: That's true. That's where we're working very hard. The issue that you're
expressing is something that we're working very hard on. We talked about this last month as well.
CLAUDIO FOLSKA: Mm-hmm.

DAVE JENSEN: And so while we are making some headway, we're not pleased with where we're
at. We would like nothing more than to not mandate at all, at least on the rail side. On light rail,
mandating does go up. It does go in seniority order, and it is very difficult in on our employees.
And we feel that as well. And so our efforts toward recruitment and retention, that where it's key.
CLAUDIO FOLSKA: Is it absolutely impossible and out of the question to have conversations
with people and say, we're suffering, we're short, and we need everybody to pitch in? Because
these new people have been pulling this rope for five years, and they're not getting any relief, like
just one weekend a month. Can people volunteer for that?
DAVE JENSEN: I agree that communication with our staff is a critical element toward letting
them know what our mission at hand is and that we appreciate what we're doing. And absolutely
we will look into everything that we can to reduce that and make it better for our employees.
CLAUDIO FOLSKA: Because I know the senior people love working here too. We know that
because they stay for 45 years or 35 years. Maybe we could ask some of them to volunteer one
weekend a month or something so that you can start relieving these other folks that have done it
for five solid years. It's just untenable. And we're not going to make it better, we're just going to
make it worse.
DAVE JENSEN: I agree. And if I could comment on that as well, if we look at the numbers. What
we're also starting to track now is just that very thing, where we're asking for volunteers. And we're
tracking now the volunteers that we're getting, because from our standpoint, we're still looking at
operators that are working extra time, whether they've been mandated to do it or whether they've
volunteered to do it. But we are doing that. We are asking for volunteers, and we are getting them.
CLAUDIO FOLSKA: Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: So to respond back on the bus operations side, most of the junior people have
week days off, and we're very limited on the amount of work that we can do with senior people
during the week. There are federal regulations that restrict our operators on the amount of drive
time. We've been extending and expanding those as much as we can through our other operators,
such as our extra board. But there are still limitations on what we can work.
We do have weekends we are mandating higher up on the seniority side. We do ask for volunteers
as much as we can. And that's the first thing that we do is try to work the volunteers before we
mandate.
CLAUDIO FOLSKA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for that discussion. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: One thought to just piggyback on that. Are retireds a possibility for one
weekend a month, or is that constrained by our labor?

FRED WORTHEN: We actually have retired coach operators that work for us. Some bid work.
Some make themselves available as they see fit. but we do have a retiree program for coach
operators.
SHELLEY COOK: Can we be a little bit more energetic in trying to recruit from those folks or
something, maybe?
FRED WORTHEN: I'm pushing as hard as I can for resources, ma'am. Trust me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Oh, Director Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'll just piggyback on everybody and ask about, could
you sweeten the pot and incentivize some of the senior folks to maybe work a weekend? Like an
extra bonus or something?
FRED WORTHEN: We actually have. We actually pay extra pay for people who volunteer. We
have-- I forget the exact dollar amount, but we do pay a premium for people that will volunteer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. You good? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sorry. Thank you. Could you please provide to me the strategies that you all
are implementing to address the recruiting and retention? You don't have-- you could just send me
an email. I'm just curious of the things that you all have outlined in terms of your plan.
FRED WORTHEN: We have a lot of things that we're working on, and we have some other things
in the hopper that we're trying to do, not only on the operator side but on a vehicle maintenance
side. Even though this report doesn't focus on the vehicle maintenance side, we really are having
struggles with the general repair and with body shop too. So we're working on all of those front
line positions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I think that there are things that you all are working
on. And sometimes we ask questions, and you already have it going. And so if you could share it
with me, it would be helpful.
FRED WORTHEN: Happy to.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sorry. With everyone. That's exactly what I meant.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVE JENSEN: And I just wanted to comment quickly on that as well. We'll absolutely send you
the efforts that we're putting into recruitment and retention. But again, I think one of the critical

elements really is getting to that number, because the complaint that we're getting is the employees
don't want to work. They're tired. And so until we-- we have to get to a number that we don't have
to mandate.
And so we can incentivize, and we've got creative ways to train. And we will sweeten the pot, and
we will look at everything that we can in order to get to that number. But it's an uphill push for us.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I think that we'll move on from that one to Rail Operations. That would
be Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: I don't have anything to add to what we've already talked about unless there are
other questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do we have questions on anything that you all read in the Rail Operations
report? Seeing nobody up there, I think we can move on to other matters. Do we have any other
matters? OK. I think that there should be some kind of an award.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: To you?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that is all. Gentlemen, we thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You get to stay up late tonight.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We'll leave.
KATE WILLIAMS: And we thank you all for being here tonight and for the work that you do. I
think our next meeting will be August 13th. And we stand adjourned.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

