Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 1, 2009,
Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

December 9, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, December 1, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Daly, Director Bagley, Director Busck, Director Chacon,
Director Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director
James, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam,
Director Tayer, Director Tobiassen

Directors Brohl, Kemp and Martinez

Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Nadine Lee, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Bill
Sirois, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter,
Phil Washington

Others Present:

Kevin O’Neill, Mike Dino, Ann Miano, Jared Fleischer, Jennifer
Brandeberry, Jeff Leib – Denver Post

Call to Order:

I.

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

Federal Issues

Federal Update by the Patton Boggs team from the Washington, DC and
Denver Offices
Kevin O’Neill introduced his team from DC and Denver. The team includes: Mike
Dino, Ann Miano and Jared Fleischer.
The four primary topics that were discussed are:
Mike Dino talked about the State of the RTD relationship with Colorado
delegation and their interest in transit in general.
Ann Miano talked about historical achievements of work and context it has

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 1, 2009,
Page 2 of 2
moving forward with Reauthorization in particular.
There was also an update on fiscal year 2010 appropriation process and a
preview of fiscal year 2011.
Jared talked about President Obama’s new initiatives – Sustainable Community
initiative, Economic Stimulus, and rumored job bills and how transportation is
participating, as well as opportunities for new funding.
Interim General Manager, Phil Washington acknowledged the Patton Boggs Team
for their work.
II.

Other Matters

III.

Date for Next Meeting – Not discussed

IV.

Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee - Chair Daly adjourned the meeting
at 6:50 p.m.

