Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, PhD, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 6, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Paul Solano

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL & Associates
• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - April 3, 2018
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: January 31, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 31, 2018

Board Meeting Date: February 6, 2018

Subject:

Local Update - CRL & Associates

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 01-29-18



Jan 22 2018 MMC Transportation Statement

(DOCX)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Steve Gieske, Assistant General Superintendent, Maintenance
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

Date:

January 29, 2018

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

Below is our update for February 2018:
1. Transportation Funding Initiative Update – The Coalition of business interests,
elected officials, transportation and multi-modal advocates and industry representatives
continues to prepare for a transportation funding initiative. The Coalition’s legal counsel
is expected to file at least four ballot titles in the next 10 days. The full Coalition will be
meeting on Wednesday, February 7 from 3-4:30 p.m. at the Denver Metro Chamber of
Commerce.
2. Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) Retreat – The MMC’s Annual Retreat was held on
January 13. The MMC reached a consensus that the 1% sales tax increase option remains
its preferred option, but if a lesser sales tax is proposed, then CDOT’s share must be
proportionately reduced to preserve the local share necessary to meet our significant
transportation and mobility needs. A copy of the full MMC statement is attached.
3. Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) Meeting – The next meeting of the full MMC is on
Wednesday, February 7 from 7:30-10 a.m. at the Lone Tree Arts Center, 10075
Commons St. in Lone Tree. The agenda includes a legislative update from CML and a
discussion regarding the transportation funding initiative. Following the meeting, there
will be an optional coffee from 10-11 a.m. focused on the history of the MMC’s
engagement on transportation that will be led by Arvada Mayor Marc Williams.

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800, Denver, CO 80264 p. 303.592.5450 f. 303.592.5460 www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-29-18 (3384 : Local Update - CRL & Associates)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.b

CONSENSUS: MMC January 22, 2018 Transportation Funding Recommendation

The passage of SB 267 combined with the new increased revenue projections for the state General Fund have led some
within the statewide coalition to suggest that because CDOT’s funding need has been reduced, a 1% sales tax may no longer
be necessary.
The Metro Mayors Caucus and members of the broader statewide coalition have repeatedly affirmed the critical importance
of both local and multi-modal funding from any new funding mechanism. However, the legislative efforts provide no new
dollars for local needs and a negligible amount for multi-modal (arguably as much as 10% of CDOT’s dollars, but potentially
less). Because the General Assembly is unable to bind future legislatures through statutory funding commitments, and
because unpredictable economic cycles demand flexibility in General Fund revenues allocation, MMC continues to believe
that a secure, sustainable and predictable revenue source dedicated to transportation and mobility infrastructure at the
state and local levels is critical.
Sales taxes are the primary revenue source for municipalities and are used to fund essential public services — municipalities
must therefore see a significant return of local dollars from any statewide sales tax question. For the above reasons, MMC’s
October 2017 preferred option was that a 1% statewide sales tax proposal with the above described 45/15/20/20 split be
put before voters. At the January 13, 2018 MMC Retreat, mayors asserted and via the consensus process have agreed, that
the 1% option remains our preferred option, but that if a lesser sales tax is proposed (like the example below), then CDOT’s
share must be proportionately reduced to preserve the local share necessary to meet our significant transportation and
mobility needs.

Jan 22 2018 MMC Transportation Statement.docx

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Jan 22 2018 MMC Transportation Statement (3384 : Local Update - CRL & Associates)

During the fall of 2017 the Metro Mayors Caucus and stakeholders engaged in substantial discussion of several alternatives
for funding statewide transportation and mobility needs. Those discussions included the October 4 Full Metro Mayors
Caucus meeting, discussions within the MMC Executive Committee, and a 10/9 MMC Transportation & Mobility Committee
meeting. These discussions provided the basis for MMC’s preferred alternative, which was submitted on October 17, via
email, to every mayor within the Caucus for comment or objection. From this intensive process, the Metro Mayors Caucus’
preferred option emerged: a 1% sales tax increase split 45/15/20/20 among CDOT Roadway/Statewide MultiModal/Counties/Cities.

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: January 31, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 31, 2018

Board Meeting Date: February 6, 2018

Subject:

State Update - Brandeberry McKenna

ATTACHMENTS:


Weekly Report 1.29

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.C.2.a

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

To:

RTD

Date: January 29, 2018
Re:

Weekly Update

BBMK would like to congratulate Director Solano and Director Walker on your new leadership
positions as the Government Relations Chair and Vice-Chair of the RTD Board. We look forward
to continuing to partner with both of you and stand ready to assist you on legislative matters
important to the District.
SB18-088 Taxation of Retail Marijuana Sales sponsored by Senator Gardner and Majority
Leader KC Becker. SB18-088 clarifies that retail marijuana sales remain subject to the sales
taxes of RTD, SCFD and the HSD and any other sales taxes that limited purpose governmental
entities levied on retail marijuana sales before July 1, 2017. SB18-088 is different from the
legislation proposed during the special session as it puts in place clear direction for organizations
impacted by the error to move forward in collecting the tax. First, organizations governing
boards would be required to make public decisions that would provide direction. Second, the
impacted organizations will not be seeking to collect taxes retroactively. Finally, allowable tax
collection will only resume from the time of the governing board decision authorizing it and
going forward. The bill was heard in the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday. General
Manager Genova and Board Chair Tisdale provided excellent testimony to the Committee.
The bill passed the Senate on Second Reading on a voice vote.
SB18-001 Transportation Infrastructure Funding sponsored by Senators Baumgardner
and Cooke and Reps. Buck and Carver. This legislation supported by Senate Republican
Leadership would require the transportation commission to submit a ballot question to the voters
in the November 2018 election that would authorize additional TRANs bonds in a maximum
amount of $3.5 billion and with a maximum repayment cost of $5 billion. The bill would repeal
Sections 3,4, and 7 of SB 267 that require the state treasurer to execute lease-purchase
agreements of up to $1.88 billion for funding high-priority qualified federal aid transportation
projects. The bill would further require 10 percent of the state sales and use tax revenue to be
credited to the state highway fund and used to make TRANs payments. Lastly, it would require
CDOT to report on the use of these funds to the House and Senate Transportation Committees.
The bill was heard in the Senate Transportation Committee on Tuesday. The sponsors offered
three amendments to the bill. L001 required that one project be located in each of the five
transportation districts. L002 added a legislative declaration adds that the General Assembly
can determine whether to use a low bill or design process and then contract with separate
entities for the two processes. L003 stated that CDOT must release the first third of the bonds
in 2018, and then a third for each processing year. L004 allows CDOT to use all the money
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Weekly Report 1.29 (3385 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)

1.C.2.a

HB18-1062 Sales Tax on Retail Marijuana sponsored by Rep. Lebsock. The bill reduces the
special sales tax rate on retail marijuana and eliminates the exemption on retail marijuana from
the state’s 2.9 percent sales tax. The bill reduces total state revenue, changes the distribution of
revenue in the General Fund and cash funds, and increases revenue to certain special districts.
The bill has not been calendared to date.
HB18-1067 Right to Rest Act sponsored by Reps. Salazar and Melton. In past years RTD
has had concerns about this legislation having a negative impact on the District’s ability to
manage our property and have opposed this type of legislation along with groups like the
Colorado Municipal League, Downtown Denver Partnership and the City and County of Denver.
The bill is scheduled for a hearing on February 21st at 1:30 pm in the House Local
Government Committee.
HB18-1119 Highway Building and Maintenance Funding sponsored by Rep. Leonard and
Senator Neville. This bill would require the transportation commission to submit to the voters of
the state at the November 2018 general election. The ballot question, if approved without raising
taxes would authorize the state to issue transportation revenue anticipation notes up to $3.5
billion with a maximum repayment cost of $5 billion to fund the construction of specified high
priority projects. The initiative would also repeal sections of 3, 4, and seven enacted in SB267,
that requires the state treasurer to execute lease-purchase agreements of up to $1.88 billion for
funding high-priority qualified federal aid transportation projects. The bill was introduced and
assigned to the House Transportation and Energy Committee.
BBMK is tracking a number of sales tax bills for any impacts to the District.
Please feel free to contact us anytime if you have questions about the legislation.

2
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Weekly Report 1.29 (3385 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

above the bond payment for highway construction and maintenance. The bill passed out of
the committee on a Party Line Vote with the three amendments offered by the sponsor.

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: January 31, 2018

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 31, 2018

Board Meeting Date: February 6, 2018

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update 1 29 18 (DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.3.a
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
2550 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037
+1 202 457 6000
+1 202 457 6315
squirepattonboggs.com
O
F

To:

Board of Directors, Regional Transportation District of Denver

From:

Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP

Date:

January 29, 2018

Subject:

Federal Update for February 6 Regional Transportation District Board Meeting

Purported White House Infrastructure Plan Released by Trade Press
The White House is expected to unveil more details on its infrastructure proposal in the coming
weeks, shortly after the President’s State of the Union address on January 30. The President will
also highlight the Administration’s infrastructure proposal in his State of the Union address.
Last week, a six-page memorandum outlining the Trump Administration’s infrastructure proposal
was obtained by the press. The White House has not confirmed the authenticity of the document,
but it reflects the broad policy positions and four main funding and finance proposals that the
Administration has been publicly discussing for months.
Throughout these discussions, the White House has stated their plan will provide $200 billion in
funding to leverage at least $1 trillion in total investment. Last week, the White House’s
infrastructure director, DJ Gribbon, revealed that there will be no new funding included in the
proposal. Instead, the $200 billion will be derived from redirecting funds away from existing
programs, in line with the President’s FY 2018 budget proposal. In that budget, the President
proposed significant reductions to New Starts, Amtrak, and the multi-modal TIGER grant program,
among other cuts. Additionally, DJ Gribbon said that, while he does not propose eliminating the
Highway Trust Fund, the President’s infrastructure proposal will not include additional revenues to
address the chronic revenue shortfall facing the Highway Trust Fund since 2008.
The memorandum outlines three new programs that would receive Federal infrastructure funding:
(1) Infrastructure Incentives Initiative; (2) Transformative Projects Program; and (3) Rural
Infrastructure Program. Additionally, the proposal would significantly increase funding for several
existing Federal credit assistance programs, including TIFIA and RRIF, which lend to those
infrastructure projects with reliable revenue streams to repay the loans.

46 Offices in 20 Countries
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP is part of the international legal practice Squire Patton Boggs, which operates worldwide through a number of separate
legal entities.
Please visit squirepattonboggs.com for more information.

1

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Federal Update 1 29 18 (3387 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Federal Update

1.C.3.a

The Infrastructure Incentives Initiative, accounting for 50 percent of the plan’s spending, would
provide Federal discretionary grants for infrastructure projects to State and local governments that
raise their own revenues – or attract private revenues – for such projects. This program would also
include a short look-back period providing States and local governments with some credit for nonFederal revenues raised in the previous three years. Where Federal highway and transit formula
programs now fund up to 80 percent of project costs, Federal grants under this new incentive
initiative would be limited to 20 percent of project costs.
Attachment: Federal Update 1 29 18 (3387 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

The Transformative Projects Program would be a discretionary grant program run by the
Department of Commerce and would support a wide range of publicly-sponsored demonstration,
planning, and capital construction projects that include a private or non-profit equity investment.
The Rural Infrastructure Program would be mainly block grants to every State, apportioned based
on each State’s share of all rural lane miles nationwide and its share of the total rural population
nationwide.
Beyond these three funding programs, the bill includes a number of policy priorities, many of which
are aimed at significantly reducing Federal permitting requirements and other hurdles to advancing
infrastructure projects in a timely manner. For public transportation, the proposal would require
New Starts grant recipients to establish value-capture mechanisms (such as a local property tax) as a
condition of receiving New Starts funding.
Among a number of smaller programs proposed in the memorandum is the Public Lands
Infrastructure Fund, which would be a new Interior Maintenance Fund supported by Federal fees
generated from mineral and energy development on Federal lands and waters. No information is
provided on how such revenues would be spent on infrastructure projects.
Federal Government Still Operating Under Continuing Resolutions
After a short Federal government shutdown in mid-January, the Federal government is now
operating under a fourth Continuing Resolution (CR) that funds all programs and agencies through
February 8, 2018. To date, Congress has not yet reached an agreement on a FY 2018 budget and
continues to try to include a compromise on immigration issues in the FY 2018 spending deal.
Because of the difficulty all parties have faced to date in finding consensus on immigration and
spending issues, Congress may adopt another CR by or before February 8 to gain more time for
further negotiations. Under these short-term extensions, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
has not yet released formula funds for the fiscal year that began on October 1, 2017.

2

Packet Pg. 11

