2021-12-07
Special Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everybody. I will now call the Tuesday, December 7, special
Board meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully
ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings
of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page.
Under our Civility Statement, I would just like to read, "Colleagues, being elected as a member of this
body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance and maintain the public confidence in this
agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to
conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality.
These are the values we can agree upon."
As such, I encourage each of us to review the Operating Guidelines adopted by the Board and to act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website.
Thank you.
Please note that we will not be taking public comment during this meeting. Ms. McManus, if you would
please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're still muted, Marjorie.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here. My Space bar is not working to mute me.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: All 15 present and accounted for. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Welcome, Director Tisdale and Director Lewis. As a reminder,
the Transit Security Administration, also known as the TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement
for public transportation until March 18, 2022. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must
wear a face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation, to include airports and
aircraft, train stations and trains, bus stops and buses.
This evening, we will be, in a moment, having an Executive Session pursuant to Section 24-6-402
(4)(f)(I), C.R.S. for personnel matters related to the General Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson's 2021
performance appraisal. So what I'd like to say as, please note that the Board will reconvene in Open
Session after the Executive Session ends. I will now entertain a motion to move into Executive Session-KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --for personnel matters. OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do I have a second?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movement and a second by Director Lewis. Ms. McManus, I know
we need to have at least five votes. Can we do a roll call for going into Executive Session?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Absolutely. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: What am I, chopped liver?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have you-- you were the [INAUDIBLE]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Because you were the first one.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And you were the movant.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
[LAUGHTER]

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, so all 15 Board members have voted to move into Executive
Session.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let me just note, again, for the record, that immediately upon the conclusion
of the Executive Session, the Board will reconvene to address the remaining items on the committee and
meeting agenda. Would only the Directors present and the GM and CEO Johnson please move into the
other meeting instance at this time?
[MUSIC PLAYING]

AUTO-ATTENDANT: Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303299-6000, option 4, or fill out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus-BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams? I don't think you're in the right meeting.
AUTO-ATTENDANT: --report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, clearly, I'm way behind (LAUGHS).
AUTO-ATTENDANT: Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number-one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number-one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks.
[AUDIO OUT]

[MUSIC PLAYING]
Let your phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number-one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and
[AUDIO OUT]

always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily,
we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number-one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number-one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number-one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number-one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.

At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind-[AUDIO OUT]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I feel like I passed the test.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back, and thank you for your patience. It is
now 5:52 PM, and I would like to call back to order the Special Board Meeting of the RTD Board of
Directors. This evening, we have two recommended actions on the agenda. The first is the approval of
the General Manager/CEO's 2021 performance appraisal and the 2022 adjusted base salary. Do we have
a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, who was the so moved? Was that-PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin. And second was?
KATE WILLIAMS: Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Williams. All right, I have Director Catlin as the movant. Director Williams is
the second. Is there any discussion on this motion? Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I would just like to briefly go over the process by which we came
to this recommended action before us tonight. For members of the public that may be here and listening
in, the General Manager Oversight Performance Committee works to put together evaluation process and
bring it to the Board. And, this year, we did just that. We put together a process by which the General
Manager will be evaluated based upon her job description because, when she was hired back in 2020,
that was what her contract said we would do.
Moving forward, after this year, there are going to be some different criteria and different metrics but, for
the year of 2021, this was the process that we used. The job description, when you break it out, has
roughly 31 separate categories upon which the General Manager can be evaluated, and was evaluated,
in this performance period.
We had a consultant, TransPro Consulting, that helped us put together this tool that we use to put this
evaluation out. All the Board members assembled here engaged in the process and ranked Ms. Johnson

on all 31 of these separate areas of evaluation. She received excellent reviews, either Exceeds
Expectations or Meets Expectations in some areas.
The Board also approved, some time ago, the possibility that the potential salary increase for this year
could be up to 6%. So, when we broke down the job description criteria into its two main categories, the
evaluation criteria and personal attributes, the Board decided that 3% salary increase would be possible
for each of those sections. When we take those 31 performance categories that were voted upon and that
Ms. Johnson was evaluated upon, Ms. Johnson exceeded expectations in both of those main categories.
And so the General Manager Oversight Performance Committee decided that, unanimously, that that
means she is eligible for the full 6% of that increase in salary because you can't get higher than Exceeds
Expectations.
So that's what's coming before you tonight and, briefly, the process that we went through to get there. If
anybody has any other questions or comments, that's great. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Hey. Just briefly, first of all, I support the GMOC's recommended evaluation. And, in
fact, I got Adobe Acrobat back for the first time in months, the other day, and took advantage of the
conversion capability to do a word cloud for some of the comments on the questions, and you would have
recognized them. You'd see big words like "leadership" and "courageous" and "team" and so forth, so it
underscored for me the general regard that the Board has for the CEO.
And, for me, I also have, for my consideration of it all, I'm wanting to recognize that there may be for
constituents, some constituents who are affected by our service cuts, a disconnect between this, and I
just wanted to acknowledge that. And to underscore something that Director Buzek said, we committed to
this framework several months ago and it's something that is part of the contract we had with our
GM/CEO. And she has demonstrated that she's met the criteria that we laid out for her, but I do have a
little bit of a concern about simultaneously a pretty good increase at the same time that we're cutting
services on a permanent basis. OK, thank you so much for that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And just to build on and expound a little bit on Director
Buzek and what he has been saying is-- and so, really, supporting the conclusions of Meet or mostly
Exceed categories that we evaluated the General Manager for and reiterating how she's been doing an
exceedingly good job for the agency and very pleased with her work and, also, sort of reiterating how
these requirements or these categories that we rated her on were from the original contract. And but my
sense is that we'll be continuing some of these towards the future, probably all of them towards the future,
and then, of course, adding new categories.
And the public will know over the next coming months, and I look forward to receiving input from the
public about, you know, maybe just some things that they would like to include in that. And then we can
certainly bring that up, as a Board, things that might be important to include in a future evaluation, things

like service and safety and future development, so things like our transition to electric buses, autonomous
vehicles, and more transit-oriented development and, you know, beautifying some of our stations and
making them more transit-friendly for bicyclists and pedestrians. These are all things that I know the
General Manager is already working on, to a great extent, but these are things that I know that some of
the public and certainly myself, and perhaps-- I know we've had some discussions as a Board as well-- to
see how we can move forward on some of these as well.
But, in general, right now, I just have to say good job. Thank you very much, General Manager, for your
work, and keep it up. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And certainly appreciate the comments by Director
Rosenthal, but just to avoid confusing the public, this Board, including the GMOC, had already passed the
method for compensation and evaluation for certainly, at least, next year and possibly the year after.
Always open to changes, always good to hear from public, but I want to avoid confusing folks. And
Director Buzek or others to correct me if I'm wrong, but we've set that compensation to be objectively
measured.
And looking forward to seeing how community input comes into play through the various surveys and
other metrics that the Board passed as part of the Strategic Plan, and compensating our CEO is a part of
that. So, certainly, all points well-taken, but I want to make sure that we're not causing any confusion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. OK, before I call for the vote, I would just like to say working
side-by-side with the General Manager and CEO, she's been here for 12 months, one year, and the
amount of work that she has been able to participate, execute, has been done with, not just success, but
with finesse, professionalism and expertise and the ability to really negotiate and discuss issues
transparently and in a user-friendly component. If you look at our website and you look at our financial
plan, for the first time, people understand it.
And I have been privileged to sit next to her in meeting after meeting, and she is incredibly articulate and
an expert in her field. And I think we are all very, very fortunate to have such a strong leader leading our
agency. So thank you, General Manager.
OK, with that, I'd like to call for the vote. Are there any No votes on this action? Seeing none, it passes
unanimously.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, Madam Chair, I would-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Never mind.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --Director Rosenthal.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: No, I didn't want to be a No vote. I just thought it would be very confirming for the
General Manager to hear each of us say Aye or Yes-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I will.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: --to this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I just think that it would be very nice and proper for her.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Very duly noted. All right, Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Absolutely, yes. Thank you, Director Rosenthal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. That's unanimous, 15 yeses. Thank you, ladies and
gentlemen.
Our second recommended action is the approval of the amended Board Bylaws. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there any discussion? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I won't take up a lot of time. I just had a clarity question. At
the beginning of the year, at the beginning of each year, the Board, at our very first Board member
meeting, we approve where we are going to post meetings, how much time, the 24-hour notice, and time,
location, et cetera, and I wasn't sure if this had any impact on that in which we would be voting on in
January at our first meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It does not. But Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, it doesn't.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There are some additional changes that we did review and would like to change
in the bylaws, but we are going to do that in a separate action, just so that we're moving forward with just

the changes in the Meeting Management Changes for 2022. So I don't think that anything will happen
with that particular subject in 2022, but it will be open for discussion for 2023.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that. And then the second question, one of the
things that we had hoped to be able to resolve was around public comment. And I did see the change in
the bylaws, but it says-- or I did see the change. It says that the Board will put together a process in which
folks can provide their public comment beforehand. Just to clarify, is that saying that's the only way that
people will be able to participate in public comment? Or will they be able to just, like, participate the same
day?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. Snyder, may I ask for you to respond to that, please?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So, yes, Director
Lewis, and I'm going to refer folks to packet page 135. That's the red line that talks about public comment
being germane to the items before the committee. So my understanding is, yes, we will be able to allow
the public to submit comments in advance of the meeting and also in person, like we normally do in board
meetings.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to clarify that. Thank you so much.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would like to add on to that that the Board Office is working with the IT
Department to get a specific email address so that, at the start of the year, that will be socialized,
hopefully in the agendas so that we can get all of that information upfront and have it compiled for public
consumption as well as the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Barbara.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other questions or discussion? Seeing none, I have Director Williams
as the movant and Director Tisdale as the second. I'd like to go back again and take every Board
member, though. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. 15 yeses, it moves unanimously. Thank you, ladies and
gentlemen. Is there any other matters to come before the Board this evening?
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair? Wait, I can't get my hand up. Raise hand?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. I'd like to thank you. I'd like to thank you for all of your service throughout the
pandemic. I don't think there is anybody else on the planet that could have led us through the very, very
difficult time that we have all been in personally and as a transit agency.
And I want to recognize that this is your last official meeting. I mean, you might get re-elected next year
you know I don't know. But, at the moment, this is officially your last meeting, so I just wanted to say
thank you from me and hopefully from all of my constituents.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks, everybody.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director-- or Ms. McManus? Oh, you're muted.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I spoke to Director Sloan earlier, and she asked me to mention where you are
with the redistricting. So I just want to let everybody know that we have a tentative schedule in place. The
redistricting internal team reviewed it yesterday and we'll be bringing that forward. The public outreach
piece of that, we'll be bringing it forward to the full Board for as a recommended action in the January 4th
meeting with all of the public outreach and public hearings shortly thereafter.
[BEEPING]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: With a decision being made in March. So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. All right, our General Manager, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, and good evening once again. Debra Johnson,
General Manager and CEO. Recognizing that this is the Board's final scheduled meeting for 2021, I
wanted to briefly share some timely information on three separate topics. First, being strategies to
improve conditions at Denver Union Station and the surrounding areas, the status of the efforts under
way for the agency's internal audit function, and then the validation of baseline survey data for purposes
of the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan.
So regarding Denver Union Station, as you all are aware, following my November 29, 2021 memorandum
to all employees regarding the unwelcome activities at the intermodal hub, considerable media coverage
has been focused on the agency's efforts to address the unwanted activities that have plagued Denver

Union Station and its surrounding areas, including the use and sale of illicit drugs as well as aggressive
behaviors that have become commonplace in recent months. As stated in my November 29th
memorandum, Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response, or VIPR, teams consisting of three to seven
individuals from the Transportation Security Administration began on November 30th, patrolling Denver
Union Station and the surrounding areas. The VIPR teams serve to augment the agency's sworn Transit
Police officers and contracted security teams who have also increased the size and frequency of their
patrols in the area. Additionally, the Guardian Angels, a non-profit organization, is assisting in these
efforts as well.
On a parallel track, I commissioned a third-party entity to conduct environmental testing in the bus
concourse public restrooms on Tuesday, November 30th, and samples were taken on Wednesday,
December 1st. Pursuant to the report provided to RTD on Friday, December 3, 2021, trace amounts of
fentanyl were found on restroom surfaces. While trace amounts were found, the environmental tester
confirmed that contamination was not at a dangerous level.
Out of an abundance of caution, I closed the restrooms on Friday, December 3rd, at approximately 6:00
PM and had third-party remediation crews perform comprehensive cleaning within the two restrooms and
in all five of the elevators on the evening of Friday, December 3rd into the early morning of December 4th.
The restrooms will remain closed as earnest efforts are being made to return the facilities to a state of
good repair as well as to install permanent restroom doors. The public restrooms will remain closed for at
least the remainder of the year, until such time the doors can be installed and protocols and procedures
can be put in place such as a permanent restroom attendant in the form of a security guard.
I met with Mayor Hancock's Chief of Staff on Friday, December 3rd regarding the need for supplemental
assistance in Denver Union Station. Through our discussions, I was assured that the Denver Police
Department will increase the presence of DPD officers in the vicinity of Denver Union Station to augment
the efforts of RTD's sworn police officers and contracted security personnel. On the afternoon of
Saturday, December 4th, I spent some time in the bus concourse and engaged with bus operators, three
supervisors, and our facility maintenance personnel working on the restrooms to assess the situation
firsthand. I do walk through Union Station daily, so I have seen the immediate impacts of these strategies.
Further on this topic, my team and I are assessing infrastructure enhancements to provide for our
customer paid fare zone within the bus concourse area. Preliminary discussions are ensuing with varied
audiences relative to innovative funding sources. Regarding the media attention on this matter, earlier this
afternoon, I participated in two interviews, one with CBS4 and 9News regarding the agency's efforts at
Denver Union Station. I welcome the community support garnered through these media engagements as
well as the words of encouragement from employees expressing their appreciation of the efforts the
agency has undertaken to enhance safety and security in this critical transit hub.
I'd like to transition, quickly, to the internal audit recommendations implementation. As you all know, the
agency's efforts to identify best practices as established by the Institute of Internal Auditors to enhance
the agency's internal audit function are nearing its completion. RubinBrown, the auditing consultant hired

to assist with these efforts, is in the process of preparing this final report which I anticipate will be
presented to the Board in January 2022.
On a related note, the agency has submitted draft materials to the Office of the State Auditor in response
to the 2021 performance audit findings. The auditor's office will review the materials and possibly suggest
revisions prior to the submission of the agency's final responses in January of 2022. The Legislative Audit
Committee is scheduled to meet in February of 2022, at which time the committee will review RTD's
responses.
And, lastly, I wanted to share that the process is currently underway for an external audit firm which
actually is Plante Moran, to validate customer and community survey data. As you do-- as you may recall,
I should qualify it as saying that we had TransPro through a third-party entity. They engaged to do
baseline survey data, and we're looking to have Plante Moran validate said information as it relates to the
statistical analysis for the findings we will receive-- or I shouldn't say findings. I should say baseline.
And so the audit firm conclude their review before year's end. I anticipate that the results will be available
for the Board's review during the Special Board Meeting scheduled for January 4th in 2022. And, with
that, I thank you for the opportunity to address all of you.
I would like to wish you all a safe and joyous remaining 2021 and prosperity into 2022 for all those
virtually assembled and for all of RTD's customers and partners as well as our employees and the
community this agency serves. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. Director Rosenblum-- or Rosenthal.
[LAUGHTER] I mean Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It's OK. It's all right Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you very much, General
Manager Johnson, for updating us on those three important issues.
Relating to the Denver Union Station, I appreciate the quick and urgent action that you have undertaken
to really engage on this issue. You know, this is something that I've heard from a number of members of
the public, and so I appreciate your actions and building that coalition of groups and agencies, both within
RTD and within Denver, to engage on that.
And so I guess I'd like to see, over time, some metrics on that, whether it's engaging in the community or
what have you, to get more feedback as to are people feeling more comfortable, are complaints receding,
things like that. And, as you noted, and I've heard also from folks that I've heard from, that anecdotally as
well that there are some good results coming from some of these actions, which I do appreciate.
I guess, over time, I'd like to ensure that we don't see a sort of a retrenchment on some of that
engagement, that we still have the Transit Police, the contract security, the DPD, the Guardian Angels,
that they continue heretofore to engage at Denver Union Station and any other areas where there is
some security issues so that we can ensure that the public knows that, like, hey, this is not just now. This

is not just while the iron is hot and there is a news story or something, that we will continue to see this
kind of engagement so the public sort of engages in that area if they had any reluctance. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair? Madam Chair, if I may-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --add clarity. Just as a point of clarity-- so thank you very much, Director Rosenthal,
for your comments, and I appreciate them wholeheartedly-- in an effort to manage everyone's
expectations, the Guardian Angels are a non-profit entity that do this on a volunteer basis. Recognizing
that we have engaged with them, it's hard for me to sit virtually before you and say, yes, that this will be
something that's continuous. Right? And as relates to VIPR as well, recognizing that we worked in
earnest to ensure that we could get them positioned here at Denver Union Station, we are in talks to
continue this throughout 2022. But collectively recognizing that RTD provides transit service to the vast
majority of the Denver Metro area, it's going to take a vast partnership with other members.
So while I'm committed to doing whatever it is within the power that I possess in being the General
Manager and CEO, a lot of these issues are societal issues that plague us collectively as a community.
And, in doing so, it will take enhanced efforts by all of us. It may require some legislative relief in certain
avenues as well. So I did not want to walk away from this and misrepresent the position in which RTD has
taken in earnest. So I just wanted to put that forward.
And recognizing as well that we do have a Strategic Plan, and the purpose of having that Strategic Plan is
so we can have a scorecard and there are metrics that are attributable to what it is that we're doing to
bring forward outcomes as they relate to our four strategic priorities, which is community value, which is
customer excellence, that are paramount, but also employee ownership as well because it's incumbent
upon us to ensure that our employees have a safe environment in which they can work. And so, as we go
forward, we collectively-- we being the Executive team and members of RTD's workforce-- are working in
earnest to ensure that we have various key performance indicators that will align. And so there's already
intersectionality in that relative to our tactics that we are leveraging with our Board-adopted Strategic
Plan.
So thank you, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to respond to Director Rosenthal. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you. Director Lewis?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: If I may? Sorry, Director Lewis. If I may just have one more question? I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, thank you. Sorry, I still had my hand up. Anyway, so in regards to that,
thank you, General Manager, for that response. And, as a follow up to your remarks, so if the Guardian
Angels, as you indicated, are a volunteer organization-- and I appreciate their efforts and support of RTD-

- as they potentially stand down or do other projects and may or may not have volunteers present, will
there be community partners and RTD contract security and transit security, Transit Police that will sort of
step in to fill that gap? Or is this-- do you anticipate that we will see sort of a-- well, let's just say a lower
number of security who will be patrolling that area?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much for the question. The activities attributable to the Guardian
Angels and the VIPRs are supplemental security measures that I felt were important to put in place.
Recognizing we have talked about the adverse impacts of the Great Resignation, people power is
apparent, or the lack thereof, in all different industries.
Denver Police Department are subjected to the same adverse impacts that we are collectively as well as
our third-party contractor as well-- it's retaining people. And so, as we go forward, yes, there is a laser
focus in reference to Denver Union Station. What we're trying to do is ensure that there's protocols in
place to minimize the impact of said behavior or the unwanted behavior.
So there is an approach that needs to be taken by collective partners and, as I indicated, there is that
commitment there, and so recognizing that this is just one piece of it with the security presence. I can't
speak to what'll happen in the future, but we are committed to hiring and attracting personnel to provide
that level of support. But, as we go forward, who's to say if we're able to retain? Because those are the
pieces of the puzzle that has caused a greater plethora of the unwanted activity that we have seen.
So hopefully that addresses your question. I will ensure that I keep the Board engaged on this front so
you have an understanding of what's happening as relates to mitigation efforts in and around Denver
Union Station and, I should say, our entire transit network because what I will say, in closing, Madam
Chair, if you afford me just a couple more seconds, that-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --we did take-- we did pursue an APTA peer review. We have a community blueprint
that I am assessing, and I plan to share that information with you all at the beginning of next year as we
discern what it is that we need to do. But the P3 that's apparent is our People Power Problem. So, with
that, I will ensure that you are kept apprised. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam GM.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that conclude your questions, Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Actually, (LAUGHS) if I can just ask one more, and I apologize to my fellow
Directors. I think this is germane, and it's kind of been ruminating in my head. The word that the General

Manager has been using is patrol. And what is patrol mean? And I know there's sort of the plain meaning
of it, which means, you know, we're going to have these teams walking around.
And so let's just say there is drug dealing. How is that interaction being handled? Is there sort of a sense
of the police-- I mean, is it handled differently between the police or the Transit Police or the contractors?
So patrol meaning, like, they just sort of stand there and say, hey could you please stop? Or is there like,
hey, we're going to give you a ticket unless you cease or we will arrest you unless you cease or you have
to move along? Or what is the sort of gist of the interaction?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So keeping in mind, Director Rosenthal, we have seen some of these unwanted
activities exacerbated because there's the lack of people around, in certain instances, because
businesses have shuttered due to the fact of the pandemic, there's not the large number of commuters
converging upon Denver Union Station as before. To address your question about patrol, it's what the
definition of the word is. People are walking around, creating a presence. And so one thing's for certain,
that RTD does have a sworn police force, which is POST certified, being Peace Officer State Trained by
an entity that certifies them as being peace officers. So they have the authority within the State of
Colorado to enforce laws.
Secondly, as it relates to Denver Union Station, RTD's police officers, their sworn police personnel, do
have limited authority within the auspices of the Denver Revised Municipal Code to write citations. Allied
Security is just that, security personnel so we have a presence to deter unwanted behavior that's not
becoming of that within a confined intermodal hub. So as we look at these holistically, we're leveraging
different aspects to ensure that we can create an environment that's clean and safe.
The Guardian Angels are a non-profit, as I said. The VIPRs are another entity under the auspices of
Homeland Security. And so, with these multiple forces to create an atmosphere that will be a deterrent to
say, it's not OK to basically use illicit drugs in this space. So that is the notion behind these ancillary
support efforts.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. That concludes my questions. Thank you so much for Madam Chair and
General Manager.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. General Manager Johnson, I appreciate your approach to this
conversation, as I recognize that it's nuanced. And I've gotten a lot of interest from constituents within my
district and I recognize that, as you've said, that we are going to require a vast number of partners and
partnerships as these, some of the things that we are dealing with are societal issues. And, really, this is

an opportunity for us to address the root causes, right, of those things and how we might approach that
work.
And so I do appreciate that. And I know that you, you and your team, have been doing a lot of work with
partners like the Harm Reduction Center, and I think those are fantastic partners as well. Because the
reality is is that we aren't going to arrest our way out of this, right, and RTD, as a transit agency, can't do
this alone.
But I do have a few questions about the VIPRs and the Guardian Angels. Do you know if those folks are-if either of the two groups are trained in trauma-informed responses, particularly for those that might be
experiencing homelessness?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So a good question, Director Lewis. I can't speak to whether or not they are trained,
but that's why we also have our sworn police officers and we have our mental health clinicians. And that's
why they're partnered and why we're using this multifaceted approach because not each entity can be
well schooled in mitigating all these types of adverse situations that may bring themselves full circle.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So, in terms of engagement, what are the parameters, excuse me, around that,
their engagement? It's particularly or it's specifically just to have more people essentially out to potentially
deter that crime?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Exactly.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That, OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Exactly. It gets back to that whole broken-window syndrome, right?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If you fix windows, people are less apt to break them. So recognizing that we have a
higher level, a higher presence of people in that space, I believe that that can help be a deterrent to some
of this unseedy behavior that we have seen in and around that campus.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And then my final question is, are they, with the VIPRs and the Guardian
Angels, are they also coordinating with folks like STAR or other outreach teams as well?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, speaking from the vantage point of VIPR, when we engage with them,
recognizing what their charter is and how they came to fruition, this is to supplement transit security
holistically. When we engage with this initiative, recognizing that some of those auspices are outside of
the realm of RTD-- and let me qualify my response by saying this. We provide public transit, and public
transit is interwoven in the community fabric of which we serve. And so if there's issues that are apparent
within a jurisdiction or a municipality, they're going to roll over into public transit.
And so, in relationship to what our ultimate charter is, trying to make lives better through connections,
that's exactly what we're doing. We're trying to liaise with all these other entities and engaging with the

city and county and different things of the like. We can lean into those discussions and be part of the
meetings, but recognizing our core business is to deliver transit service, we need to ensure that we're
creating an environment in which it's safe and secure.
So I'm delineating that in the sense that I did not put forward a recommendation or a request or eligibility
criteria to say that we need this help if you can do x. It's more or less to create that presence to have a
safe environment in and around Union Station.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. OK. I do appreciate it, and I hope as we-- and I know that we're going to talk
more about safety and security as we move into the new year with the APTA peer review, et cetera, et
cetera. And I hope that, as we're looking at our partners, that we're looking at people who are-- do have
that background with the trauma-informed responses and do-- are able to better coordinate with folks like
STAR, right, and a harm reduction center and other outreach partners just because they have the
expertise in that.
And, as you've said, our job is to provide transit service while also figuring out, how do we balance folks
who are actually committing crimes with those that are suffering from societal ills like poverty and
homelessness, having mental health issues? And so I do appreciate your work and I do respect and see
that it's a delicate balance, and so I appreciate that approach.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wonder if the Board could get a report on the Guardian Angels
pertaining to what kind of training they receive, what kind of liability insurance that they have. I'm just
concerned that somebody's civil rights are going to be trampled on and we're going to get sued as the
deep pockets in this situation. So, you know, I'd like to tread lightly in this area, but I want some more
information. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Davidson? Oh, wait a minute. Director Davidson, you
went away. Director Cook.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, I lowered my hand. Thank you, questions have already been raised and
addressed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I see Director Davidson still has his up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Davidson, please.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to briefly comment on the audit
activities. And thank you, Ms. Johnson, for providing the update. On Monday the 29th, Ms. Johnson
forwarded an email where you can see the communication to the Office of the State Auditor.
I just wanted to mention, for the Board, I know we've seen the scope of work for RubinBrown but, if you
go to page 174 of that, you can review that and also get a look at some of the work coming together in
terms of the audit universe on 178. And I think we're going to have a lot of work to do very quickly, early in
the year, next year.
It's taken some time, but I just would also like to thank Ms. Johnson but, also, Mr. MacLeod. And then for
the tremendous support that others, including Mr. McKay, on the call have provided for this. Particularly,
Mr. MacLeod has demonstrated some really excellent leadership. We really appreciate the help that he's
provided to the Board in terms of coordinating that communication with the Office of the State Auditor as
well as shepherding the project for RubinBrown.
And so I certainly don't want to speak for the Chair of our committee, Director Catlin, but very happy that
how this has gone and really appreciate the leadership and improving the function. We'll have our work
cut out for us in a month or two here, I think, based on what's going to come in, but thank you very much.
And, since this is the last scheduled meeting of the year, it's been a pleasure getting to know you all on
Hollywood Squares and working with you all and serving with you and working with staff here as well. And
just would remind everybody that, in addition to enjoying the holidays, please make sure to take care of
yourselves. So thank you very much. Appreciate it, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal, you've had a couple of bites at the apple, so
I'm going to go ahead and go with Director Catlin, first. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And, Director Davidson, thank you for saying that so well. I,
too, have very much appreciated all of the activities of the staff, CEO Johnson, Doug MacLeod, and John
McKay and others. This has really been a heavy lift, and it will continue to be for the agency.
And I'm sorry I hadn't raised my hand earlier, but there's some background noise here that I'm trying to
deal with. So I, too, have been very encouraged by our progress but know that we have a lot of work to
do the first part of the year. So thank you, Director Davidson.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Director Rosenthal? Quickly, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. I will. Just as a follow-up to Director Broom's comment about the
Guardian Angels, and not to put General Counsel Snyder on the spot-- and maybe she just wants to
research this-- are do we have liability for that, if there is an event of some sort? Do-- are folks able to sue
RTD, or is that something where that falls to that organization and those individuals individually?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.

MELANIE SNYDER: So, Director Rosenthal, I appreciate the question, and I would like to take the
opportunity to just send an email to the Board with that information.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Fair enough, and thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you, everybody. Well, I am going to take this opportunity
under Other Matters, since it is my last official Board Chair meeting. I wrote down a few remarks.
You know, I've had the most amazing two years of my life's journey serving as your Chair of the RTD
Board of Directors. It's a role that I took very seriously, and it's been one of the highest honors in my
career. In these last two years, I've learned so much about this amazing agency that we've all had the
privilege to work with on behalf of our community.
As you all know, these were no way any kind of normal years. The COVID pandemic changed everything
about our lives and how we operate. I want to acknowledge the sheer number of hours we have all spent
in meetings, figuring out how to navigate Zoom, coming up with the ways to make conditions safer for our
customers and the staff, the implementation of our Strategic Plan. I also want to acknowledge the fact
that we hired the first female General Manager and the first woman of color, which is a milestone in the
history of our agency.
Things haven't always been easy during my tenure, but the struggle has made the journey that much
more impactful. And I am so grateful that I've had the privilege to collaborate with so many smart and
dedicated people. I really want to take this opportunity to thank the Board for their excellent work. So
thanks to Vince Buzek, Marjorie Sloan, Shelley Cook, Bob Broom, Kate Williams, Shontel Lewis, Bobby
Dishell, Paul Rosenthal, Julien Bouquet, Don Tisdale, Erik Davidson, Troy Whitmore, Peggy Catlin, Lynn
Guissinger.
I also would like to say an extraordinary thank you to our Board staff, Barbara, John, Tai-Shrae, Nikki,
and Jillian. And I would be remiss if I didn't thank the Foundation of the Sustainable Urban Communities
with my CEO who supported me for the last two years to do this work, Tammi Holloway and Leslie
Joseph. And last but not least, my team at Northeast Transportation Connections, who's kept moving
everything forward. So thank you, Eric Herbst, Jesse, Karly, Lacey, Nick, and Jacqueline. Without all of
you, I would not be here right now.
I would also like to thank the entire RTD staff; our General Manager, Debra Johnson. And I also would
like this opportunity to thank our interim General Manager, Paul Ballard. He and his team really helped
me that first year. And our General Counsel, Melanie Snyder.
I want to thank my mentors for their constant support and inspiration. You know, there's a quote from
Linda Hogan that gave me a lot of comfort during the difficult times, and it simply says, "Walking, I am
listening to a deeper way. And suddenly all of my ancestors are behind me. Be still, they say. Watch and
listen. You are the result of the love of thousands." I'm not alone.

Being on this Board is not an easy job. There are so many viewpoints and opinions. But what we've
learned together is that transportation is so important to the soul of this community. RTD's vision, to be
the trusted leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value to our customers and community. I think
we've done that, and we will continue to do that, whatever may come our way in the future.
Our mission statement, we make lives better through connections. As Chair, I've had the privilege to
connect with all of you and to have a front-row seat for some truly extraordinary work. So I would just like
to say, thank you, all. [SPEAKING SPANISH]
Have a great holiday. It's been my true honor to serve as your Chair. And, with that-- thank you. And, with
that, I'd like to make a mo-- does anyone have a motion to adjourn?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: Seconded, Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there anyone who wants to stay on? Seeing none-KATE WILLIAMS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --everybody have a wonderful, safe holiday. Take care.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Angie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

