1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, June 8, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 837 6186 6799#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Discussion Items

• APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review Recommendations
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - June 15, 2021
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review
Recommendations

Committee Meeting Date:
June 8, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
APTA Peer Review Panelists
Ron Pavlik, Chief of Police, Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority
Edward Alvarez, Chief of Police, Bay Area Rapid Transit
Aston Greene, Executive Director Safety and Security, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority
Matt Willing, Deputy Chief of Police, Dallas Area Rapid Transit
Wanda Dunham, Chief of Safety, Security and Emergency Management (retired), Metropolitan Atlanta
Rapid Transit Authority
APTA Staff
Polly Hanson, Senior Director, Security, Risk and Emergency Management
DeeNaye Williams, Peer Review Administrator
PRESENTATION LENGTH
30 minutes
BACKGROUND
On January 19, 2021, the General Manager and CEO, submitted a written request to the American
Public Transportation Association (APTA) for a peer review of the existing RTD Security Model.
APTA accepted RTD’s request and a Peer Review Panel was convened virtually in March and April 2021
to assist in reviewing the agency’s Security/Transit Police Model. The review was conducted by highly
experienced transit professionals who were selected based on their subject matter expertise.
Specifically, the scope of the peer review included:
1. Concerns regarding response models that include contracted security that often serve as
the "First Responder."
2. Recommendations for Community Policing Programs, Recruiting/Training Diverse Officers,
Use of Community Service Officers (Ambassadors), Cadet Programs, Community
Engagement, and Social Media to communicate and increase awareness.
3. Use of "Paid Fare Zones" in intermodal transit facilities (i.e., Denver Union Station).
4. Use of Armed Security as Second Crew Members/Fare Inspectors on commuter rail and
potential conversion to Train Conductors.

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

5. Collection and use of system data (i.e., incidents, assaults, fare evasion,
demographics) - methodologies and systems.
DISCUSSION
The panel conducted interviews with over 40 individuals including Board members, staff, union
representatives and community stakeholders; and conducted an in-depth analysis of agency security
processes/practices and data to determine guidelines, comparisons and best practices.
The review yielded numerous recommendations, summarized in Section 4 of the attached Peer Review
Report. The observations and recommendations provided by the panel are offered as an industry
resource to assist RTD as it evaluates improvements to its Transit Security Model.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Future financial impacts are yet to be determined.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021

(PDF)

•

RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Presentation Final - 6.1.21

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Michael Meader, CSO/AGM, Safety, Security & Asset Management
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1.a

AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION

1300 I Street, NW, Suite 1200 East, Washington, DC 20006
Paul P. Skoutelas, president and CEO

FINDINGS OF THE APTA PEER REVIEW PANEL ON

GAP ANALYSIS OF THE EXISTING TRANSIT POLICING
MODEL AND REORGANIZATION RECOMMENDATIONS
PROVIDED AT

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
FEBRUARY–MARCH 2021
VIRTUAL PEER REVIEW
Executive Summary: The APTA Peer Review Panel was convened at the request of Debra Johnson, general manager
and CEO, Regional Transportation District of Denver, to assist the organization in performing a gap analysis of its existing transit policing model and providing reorganization recommendations. The review was conducted virtually from Feb.
16 to March 24, 2021. The observations and recommendations provided through this peer review are offered as an industry resource to be considered by RTD in support of strengthening the organization’s public safety program. Some of the
recommendations provided include:
1. Employ a phased approach to increase internal transit police staffing levels and reduce the number of contracted
transit security officers,
2. Initiate paid fare zones at Denver Union Station, Civic Center and Boulder Transit Centers,
3. Increase awareness with stakeholders and employees and expand community engagement using social and other
forms of media,
4. Use the results of the RTD Safety and Security Survey to inform decisions on enhancements to the public safety
program,
5. Continue efforts to partner with City and County of Denver officials to explore solutions to resolve the public
health and security challenges and customer and RTD employee concerns at Denver Union Station, and
6. Collaborate with City and County of Denver officials to resolve the jurisdictional issues that prohibit RTD
transit police officers from taking direct law enforcement action within the City and County of Denver.

Peer review is a service of the American Public Transportation Association, performed by the North American
Transportation Services Association, a wholly owned subsidiary of APTA.

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

PEER REVIEW REPORT

Table of Contents
Introduction ........................................................................................................................................................ iii
Peer review panel biographies ........................................................................................................................... iv
1. Methodology .................................................................................................................................................. 1
2. Scope of the report ....................................................................................................................................... 1

2.1 Interviews...................................................................................................................................................... 2
3. Opening comments ....................................................................................................................................... 2
4. Observations and recommendations .......................................................................................................... 3

4.1 Response models with contracted security serving as first responders ......................................................... 3
4.2 Contracted armed security used as second crew members/fare inspectors and/or conversion to train
conductors ........................................................................................................................................................... 4
4.3 Use of paid fare zones in intermodal transit facilities ................................................................................... 4
4.4 Denver Union Station ................................................................................................................................... 6
4.5 Data collection, methodologies, systems and in-house data systems ........................................................... 7
4.6 RTD Safety and Security Survey .................................................................................................................. 8
4.7 Community policing programs ..................................................................................................................... 8
4.8 Diversity recruitment .................................................................................................................................... 9
4.9 Diversity training ........................................................................................................................................ 10
4.10 Cadet programs ......................................................................................................................................... 11
4.11 Community engagement through social media ......................................................................................... 11
4.12 Increased awareness with stakeholders and employees ............................................................................ 11
4.13 Communications center............................................................................................................................. 12
4.14 Gap analysis of the existing transit policing model .................................................................................. 13
4.15 Bus operations........................................................................................................................................... 14
4.16 Emergency management ........................................................................................................................... 14
5. Concluding remarks ................................................................................................................................... 15
Appendix A: Letter of request........................................................................................................................ 16
Appendix B: Peer review agenda .................................................................................................................. 18
Appendix C: Document list ............................................................................................................................ 19
American Public Transportation Association

ii

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

APTA peer reviews enable highly experienced and respected transit professionals to voluntarily provide
expert advice, industry best practices and recommendations to transit agencies seeking to address specific
issues. A panel of public transit industry experts comprised of senior executive professionals assembled to
provide advice, guidance, benchmarking and best practices within the realm of public safety and security. The
peer review panel consisted of the following individuals:
RON PAVLIK

Chief of Police, Metro WMATA
Washington, D.C.

ASTON GREENE

Executive Director of Safety and Security, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority
Los Angeles

MATT WILLING

Deputy Chief of Police, Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART)
Dallas

ED ALVAREZ

Chief of Police, Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART)
San Francisco

POLLY HANSON

Senior Director of Security, Risk, and Emergency Management, APTA
Washington, D.C.

WANDA DUNHAM

Chief of Safety, Security and Emergency Management (retired),
Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority
Atlanta

American Public Transportation Association

iii

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Introduction

1.C.1.a

Ron Pavlik
Chief Ron Pavlik rose through the ranks of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA).
Metro Transit Police Department to be appointed Chief in 2013, after 24 years of service with WMATA.
Pavlik leads the only tri-state police department in the United States, with an authorized strength of 439
officers, 141 special police officers and 94 civilian staff. He actively works with federal and regional law
enforcement partners, and currently serves as the chair of the Security Affairs Committee with APTA. He also
serves as a board member with APTA and is the chair of the Peer Advisory Group. Pavlik also was recently
selected as a voting member with the Surface Transportation Security Advisory Committee. He received his
B.S. and M.S. in management from Johns Hopkins University and is a graduate of the FBI National Academy
and the FBI National Executive.

Aston T. Greene
Chief Aston T. Greene is the executive officer and deputy chief of system security and law enforcement at LA
Metro, the nation’s third-largest public transportation system. Spanning the security spectrum from
emergency management to cyber-defense to physical security, Greene’s role is critical to LA Metro as it
shapes the security edifice for mass transit in the region. Key duties related to this essential position include
overseeing the existing law enforcement contracts and budgets with multiple jurisdictions, along with
managing the Transit Security Department’s security officers and Emergency Management Division. As
deputy chief, Greene is responsible for critical emergency management strategies and plans at Metro,
including security programs and plans for expansion as the region prepares for the 2028 Olympics. Prior to
his career at LA Metro, Greene was a major/commander with the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit
Authority (MARTA) Police and Emergency Management Departments in Atlanta. Greene has 25 years of
experience in law enforcement and security, starting as a New York State Corrections Officer in 1996. Greene
relocated after 9/11 to Atlanta, joining the DeKalb County Police Department/Division of Homeland Security
in 2002. While with DeKalb County, he was a Homeland Security detective, intelligence analyst and gang
investigator; he then worked to establish the County’s first DeKalb Emergency Management Agency and the
development of the DeKalb Emergency Operations Center and its Local Emergency Operations Plan.

Matt Walling
Deputy Chief Matt Walling is a 39-year veteran of law enforcement. He joined the Dallas Area Rapid Transit
Police Department in 2012 as deputy chief and is currently serving as interim chief. Prior to joining DART,
Walling spent over 25 years with the Rowlett Police Department, leading the agency for the last seven years.
He joined Rowlett in 1986 as a police officer and worked his way up through the ranks, serving as detective,
patrol sergeant, patrol division commander, support services commander and assistant chief. He was
appointed chief of police in 2005. Beginning his career as a patrol officer in 1982 in his hometown of Mount
Vernon, Texas, he also worked for the Franklin County Sheriff’s Department and the Commerce Police
Department before joining the Rowlett Police Department. He has a broad-based background in both
municipal and transit policing. Walling is responsible for leading approximately 256 sworn officers and 110
fare enforcement officers assigned to the department’s Field Operations Bureau, which consists of Patrol, Rail
and Special Operations. Walling is a graduate of the 204th Session of the FBI National Academy, the 40th
Class of the Law Enforcement Management Institute of Texas Leadership and Command College, and the
Police Executive Research Forum’s Senior Management Institute for Police at Boston University. He is a
former president of the Rowlett Rotary Club and a member of the International Association of Chiefs of
Police, the Texas Police Chiefs Association, the North Texas Police Chiefs Association, the FBI National
Academy Associates, and the LEMIT Leadership and Command College Alumni Association. He obtained
his undergraduate degree from Texas A&M-Commerce and has a graduate degree in leadership and
management from Sam Houston State University.

American Public Transportation Association

iv

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Peer review panel biographies

1.C.1.a

Chief Ed Alvarez was appointed BART chief of police in January 2020. He had been serving as interim chief
since May 2019. Prior to that, he served as the Support Services deputy chief. Alvarez began his law
enforcement career with the BART Police Department in 1998 after graduating from the Oakland Police
Department’s 140th Basic Recruit Academy. He has since worked as a patrol officer, field training officer,
detective, FBI Human Trafficking Task Force, patrol sergeant, field training sergeant and CAP Team
sergeant. He was promoted to lieutenant in 2011 and has since managed several units within the Support
Services Bureau, which includes communications, revenue protection, records, property, traffic, vehicle
maintenance and administrative services. He has also been a zone commander, watch commander and field
training coordinator. Alvarez is a graduate of the Police Executive Research Forum’s Senior Management
Institute for Police. He has a bachelor of science degree in criminal justice from Union Institute and
University along with an associate of arts degree from Chabot College in administration of justice. He is
bilingual in English and Spanish.

Polly Hanson
Polly Hanson is senior director of Security, Risk and Emergency Management for APTA. Hanson coordinates
with stakeholders to develop transit security, risk and emergency management standards and policies. She
performs peer reviews, assists with safety audits, and serves as an advocate for transportation security, as well
as a source matter expert on transit security, risk and emergency management issues and concerns. Previously
Hanson was chief of police for AMTRAK, where she led a department responsible for protecting over
30 million passengers and 20,000 employees. Prior to Amtrak, Hanson was a career SES 1811, serving as
director of the Office of Law Enforcement and Security for the Department of the Interior. At the
Metropolitan Police Department in Washington D.C., she was executive director, Strategic Services Bureau,
whereas a civilian assistant chief she oversaw the development of policy and procedures, tactical crime
analysis and research, strategic planning, and applicant and promotional testing. Hanson began her career at
the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, where she progressed through the ranks. As the chief of
the Metro Transit Police, she led a tri-state department covering 1,500 square miles and oversaw a budget of
$50 million, with 553 personnel. Hanson led the response to the terrorist attacks in Madrid and London,
helped create public awareness campaigns, and was an original member of the Peer Advisory Group for the
TSA administrator. Hanson received her master’s in applied behavioral science from Johns Hopkins and her
bachelor’s in communications from Temple University. She is a member of the Operation Lifesaver board of
directors and the vice chair of the TSA Surface Transportation Security Advisory Committee.

Wanda Dunham
Wanda Dunham retired from the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA) after a
distinguished career in law enforcement and transportation spanning over 30 years, 14 of those years serving
as the assistant general manager/chief of police and emergency management. Dunham was promoted to the Csuite as the chief of system safety, Security and Emergency Management. She was responsible for the
Department of Safety and Quality Assurance and the Chief Information Security Office in addition to her
responsibilities for police and emergency management. This was a newly created position at MARTA, and
Dunham was the first to hold this title. In leading the nation’s ninth-largest transit agency’s police department,
Dunham was responsible for a 947-square-mile service area, to include Clayton, Dekalb and Fulton counties.
She led a 400-plus member department that provided security for facilities, stations, buses, mobility and light
rail throughout the service area. The department has been a CALEA Nationally Accredited Agency since
1996, and Dunham became a CALEA assessor that same year. The agency received Flagship, Gold Standard
and Meritorious Service awards under her tenure. Dunham holds a bachelor’s in criminal justice from
Jacksonville State University and a master of public administration from Columbus State University. She
served as chair of the Board of Directors for the Fulton County Public Safety Training Center; was selected
by the TSA to serve on the Peer Advisory Committee; and participated in APTA/TSA Transit Roundtables.
Dunham served as a member of the Super Bowl 53 and The Final Four Law Enforcement Executive Steering
Committees in Atlanta.
American Public Transportation Association

v

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Ed Alvarez

1.C.1.a

Gap Analysis of the Existing Transit Policing
Model and Reorganization Recommendations
Provided at Regional Transportation District
1. Methodology
The American Public Transportation Association (APTA) peer reviews enable highly experienced and
respected transit professionals to voluntarily provide subject matter expert advice, industry best practices and
recommendations to transit agencies seeking to address specific issues. The panel conducts its peer review
through a documentation review and a series of briefings, listening sessions and interviews of the requesting
property’s staff, board members and other stakeholders.
The peer review concludes with a caucus among the peer review team to draw out the opinions of the team
members and define a consensus summation of their observations and their professional judgment as to where
areas of improvement could be attained. This information is then presented to the requesting property in an
exit conference and followed by a report, if so desired by the requesting property. There are no expectations
expressed or implied that the requesting property take any action to satisfy the opinions of the peer review
team or to engage any members of the team in any follow-up activities the requesting property may want to
undertake as a result of the review.
The information provided by the peer review team is consensus-based and transferred to the requesting
property as a pro bono work product, which the transit property holds all rights to under the terms of the peer
review agreement.

2. Scope of the report
The APTA Peer Review Panel was convened at the request of Debra Johnson, general manager and CEO,
Regional Transportation District of Denver (RTD), to assist the organization to perform a gap analysis of the
existing transit policing model and to provide reorganization recommendations virtually during the time
frame of Feb. 16–March 24, 2021. In its request letter (see Appendix A), RTD indicated an interest in the
areas listed below. These served as a guide to the review, but additional and related areas were covered as the
panel went through the peer review. This review analyzed the following:






Concerns regarding response models that include contracted security that often serve as the “first
responder.”
Recommendations for community policing programs, recruiting/training diverse officers, use of
community service officers (ambassadors), cadet programs, community engagement, and social
media to communicate and increase awareness.
Use of “Paid Fare Zones” in intermodal transit facilities (i.e., Denver Union Station).
Use of armed security as second crew members/fare inspectors on commuter rail and potential
conversion to train conductors.
Collection and use of data systems (i.e., incidents, assaults, fare evasion, demographics)
methodologies and systems.

American Public Transportation Association

1

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

The APTA peer review panel met extensively with RTD board members, the general manger, RTD staff, and
union members, including the following:


























Director Julien Bouquet
Director Shontel Lewis
Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Director Kate Williams
CEO Debra Johnson
Mike Meader
Bob Grado
Steve Martingano
Karl Ballard
Michelle Lawrence
Kimberley Ford
Melanie Snyder
Fred Worthen
Dave Jensen
Danielle Jones
Michael Ford
Lindsey Alarcon
Reagan Pena
Barbara O’Donnell
Ron Short
Lance Longenbohn
Walter Palmgren
Lt. Sean Farris
Lt. Jim Lesnansky
Pastor Del Phillips

3. Opening comments
The Regional Transportation District, more commonly referred to as RTD, is the regional agency operating
public transit services in eight of the 12 counties in the Denver-Aurora-Boulder Combined Statistical Area in
Colorado. It operates over a 2,342-square-mile area, serving 3.08 million people. RTD was created in 1969
and is governed by a 15-member, publicly elected board of directors. Directors are elected to a four-year term
and represent a specific district of approximately 200,000 constituents.
RTD operates a bus and rail system that has a service area of 2,342 square miles. It employs 2,888 people and
reported 97.6 million boardings in 2018. It had a $675.5 million operating budget for 2018. Google has RTD
schedules attached to its trip planner, and third-party mobile applications are now available for the iPhone and
other platforms.
RTD is constructing the voter-approved FasTracks transit expansion that will add 122 miles of new commuter
rail and light rail, 18 miles of rapid transit bus service, 21,000 new parking spaces at rail and bus stations, and
enhance bus service across the eight-county district.
RTD is currently considering modifying its existing public safety model. It currently invests approximately
$30 million annually to support public safety, using a small contingent of 20 RTD internal transit police
officers, 305 contracted armed security officers, as well as support from secondary employment police
officers from local police agencies through intergovernmental agreements. RTD uses contracted uniformed
American Public Transportation Association

2

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

2.1 Interviews

1.C.1.a

armed security officers as first responders, fare inspectors and for critical infrastructure security. These
security officers are supported by RTD internal transit police officers and secondary employment transit
police officers from the cities of Denver, Aurora, Arvada, Lakewood and Thornton. In addition to police
officers and armed security, RTD has four mental health clinicians and a homeless outreach coordinator
included in this security model.

4. Observations and recommendations
4.1 Response models with contracted security serving as first responders
Observations:






The deployment of contract security staff is driven by the contract hours.
Allied Universal contract security personnel currently receive only three weeks of general training
from the contractor.
The contract transit security officer (TSO) staff turnover rate fluctuated from 40 to below 60 % from
March of 2019 until September 2020 when it climbed to 70% and then increased to 84% in January
2021. The national average for a contract security contract turnover rate is 40%. Without exit
interview information from the contractor, Allied Universal, the reason(s) for the increase in
departures is undetermined.
While the cost of contract security may appear to be less than sworn transit police, the quality of
service may be dissimilar ensuing from the extensive training the sworn transit police receive and as
employees of RTD, the sworn transit police align their values and job performance to the expectations
and values of RTD and may see their employment as more of a career than a job.

Policing the transit environment is unique. Whether underground or above, a transit system may pass through
many neighborhoods and different governmental jurisdictions. How best to use transit police, ambassadors
and contract security officers to prevent crime, engage the community, support RTD employees, provide
customer service, and enhance the perception of a safe and secure transportation system, necessitates
consideration of security issues, training, knowledge, skills, agency culture and community support.
There is no one individual public safety template for transit authorities. Each transportation authority must
determine the most effective and efficient method to provide the appropriate level of public safety it requires.
The ability of a transit agency to reorganize or enhance its public safety program allows the agency the
opportunity to be practical, innovative and display initiative in the redesign and implementation of a
comprehensive public safety program.
Concerns regarding police response times, the impacts of people who are unsheltered and people engaging in
illegal activities were raised during the interviews. The knowledge, skills and training required of and
provided to contracted security officers was also a consideration.

Recommendations:
1. The panel supports the proposal to decrease the number of non-sworn TSOs performing the duties of
law enforcement officers and to increase the number of RTD transit police officers available for
deployment and to respond to calls for service, particularly on buses and trains.
2. The panel suggests that statistics regarding ridership, crime and customer satisfaction, in addition to
community input, inform the RTD deployment strategy and public safety model that consists of
transit police, transit security officers, off-duty police personnel, ambassadors, mental health
clinicians and a homeless outreach coordinator and that the deployment strategies be revisited after
ridership increases post-pandemic.

American Public Transportation Association

3

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

4.2 Second crew members or conversion to train conductors




RTD is committed to offering safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible and cost-effective
transportation throughout the district to all constituents.
RTD strives to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and has equal access to transportation.
The RTD public safety program includes 55 RTD internal division employees, 20 sworn transit police
officers, 305-armed transit security officers, and 350 part-time secondary employment police officers
(the equivalent of 64 full-time police officers), four mental health clinicians, and a homeless outreach
coordinator.

The following comments were heard by the panel during the interviews:








Not a fan of the current security company at RTD; they do not have a good reputation.
Preference is not to have private security guards acting as first responders.
Suggest reducing the use of contract security guards but not sure on what would be the correct mix or
the appropriate number for a hybrid approach.
People need to see a security presence.
Denver Union Station transit security officers can only stand around and watch while waiting for
RTD transit police to respond, which takes 30 to 45 minutes, and the security officers have no
authority to escort anyone off the property or bus.
If you are limiting security officers’ ability to react, then put more actual transit police officers out on
the road patrolling, not in garages.
Give the security officers the authority they need to secure areas, rather than waiting for a response
from another agency.

Recommendations:
1. The panel recommends the deployment of RTD transit police, off-duty law enforcement or TSOs at
the end of the rail lines to assist with clearing the trains before they go into the tail track. This
suggested deployment is in response to concerns communicated by RTD operations staff, who
reported that many times not all passengers are cleared from a train at the end of the run but remain
on the train as it enters the tail track, which creates a safety concern for the train operator and the
passengers.
2. The panel suggests that to accurately evaluate the utilization of ambassadors on the RTD Commuter
Rail, this initiative should be reevaluated post-pandemic when ridership increases.
3. If ambassadors are permanently converted to a second crew member or conductor role, the panel
recommends that the deployment of transit security officers, transit police or off-duty law
enforcement personnel be evaluated to ensure that there are adequate resources to provide a timely
response to security incidents onboard trains or at facilities.
4. The panel suggests that an evaluation of the second crew member or conductor deployment be
conducted to assess the effectiveness of the deployment of ambassadors or nonsworn staff in the
prevention of crime and perception of safety and security.

4.3 Use of paid fare zones in intermodal transit facilities
Observations:
While RTD uses fare paid zones on rail lines, in 2019, the Transit Police presented a plan to create a Paid Fare
Zone at Denver Union Station. This plan was acknowledged in concept but not pursued due to the outbreak of
COVID-19. The plan for the DUS bus concourse included the following:

American Public Transportation Association

4

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Observations:

1.C.1.a









Installation of new signage at each entry point stating that people entering the underground portion of
DUS must have pre-purchased fare.
Installation of new ticket vending machines (TVM) and relocation of previously identified low-use
TVMs outside, at each end of the concourse entry points, and installation of signage directing people
to the TVMs at the central entry points.
Elimination of onboard fare purchases by creating a policy that does not allow the purchase of fares
onboard buses in the DUS terminal.
The creation of audio announcements and deployment of passenger information display messages,
alerting customers of the prepaid fare zones. The prerecorded messages would alert potential
customers that they are in a paid fare zone and that a fare sweep might begin momentarily.
An assessment of the time that Greyhound passengers use the terminal and an evaluation of a policy
that allows Greyhound passengers to occupy the terminal for a set period prior to scheduled departure
and present a ticket for validation when required.
Expansion of the number of mental health and homeless outreach clinicians by adding three more
clinicians and one more licensed social worker in 2021.
Expansion of the number of transit police officers and ensuring that they have the ability to take
enforcement action within the Denver city and county limits.

It is the panel’s understanding that RTD transit police officers are prohibited by Denver officials from taking
enforcement action (arrests, citations, etc.) within the corporate limits of the City and County of Denver and
that this prohibition may be inconsistent with the statutory authority granted to RTD transit police officers by
the state of Colorado. Currently, Denver Police must be dispatched to an incident location to take whatever
action they deem appropriate even when RTD transit police are on scene.

Recommendations:
1. The panel recommends the use of paid fare zones at select RTD transit facilities to address the
security issues being encountered. To do this, RTD will need to develop ordinances,
intergovernmental agreements or memoranda of understanding, as well as policies and procedures.
2. That RTD transit police and RTD legal counsel work with local prosecutors, police and other
stakeholders to shape the ordinances, laws or rules that would need to be created or enforced; the
requirements and methods for passenger notification; and the consequences for violations of the paid
fare zone rules.
3. Once the authority to create paid fare zones is in place, the panel recommends that RTD consider
conducting a pilot program of paid fare zones at several select facilities to measure the program’s
effectiveness and, based on the results of the evaluation, consider expanding the program to other
stations throughout the system.
4. The panel recognizes the importance of gaining the support of customers, RTD employees and the
community and suggests that the paid fare zone concept and goals be presented to stakeholders prior
to the beginning of the pilot. The pilot could be revised or enhanced according to the feedback
received.
5. That RTD develop and employ a media plan to educate RTD employees, customers and stakeholders
on the pilot program and associated policy changes.
6. That RTD consider using barriers or other obstructions at a pilot location to assess the effectiveness
of infrastructure with creating a paid fare area and to evaluate the impact on crime and disorder,
required maintenance, vandalism and damage, cleanliness, complaints, and customer satisfaction.
These metrics can be evaluated periodically during the pilot and shared with the RTD board, RTD
employees and the community.
7. That RTD socialize this pilot program and the fare policy modifications that include the signage,
announcements, program marketing and branding with RTD board members, elected officials,
community leaders, customers, RTD employees, and local police and prosecutors.

American Public Transportation Association

5

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

4.4 Denver Union Station





•
•








The 22-gate underground bus facility opened to the public in the spring of 2014.
Allied Universal Security was the primary resource for security operations as RTD contractors.
Security is supplemented by the Denver Police secondary employment transit police officers as
needed.
The RTD Code of Conduct was first implemented in 2016 to respond to the influx of unsheltered
populations using the facility during cold-weather events.
In 2019 the RTD Transit Police requested assistance and a Homeless Task Force was formed.
In 2019, the Transit Police presented a plan to create a Paid Fare Zone, which was not pursued due to
the outbreak of COVID-19.
In 2020, the RTD Board of Directors formed an ad hoc Code of Conduct Committee that
recommended revisions to the RTD Code of Conduct, which allowed people to lie down on RTD
property and use power outlets to charge personal devices, such as mobile smartphones. However,
guidance was issued on January 27, 2021, by Debra A. Johnson, RTD general manager and CEO, that
modified facility rules at Denver Union Station by prohibiting eating in the facility (unless medically
necessary), prohibiting lying or sitting on the floor and limiting the number of individuals in
restrooms.
In 2020, the RTD Transit Police pursued the possibility of “direct-filing” criminal charges with the
Denver District Attorney (currently, RTD Transit Police can only enforce laws in other counties).
The addition of Greyhound Bus Lines created additional challenges.
Currently, the Denver Police must be dispatched to DUS to take whatever action they deem
appropriate, even when RTD transit police are present on scene.
Response times, responsiveness to transit-specific rule violations, and the impacts of people who are
unsheltered and people with mental health concerns were raised during the interviews.
The renovation and modernization of Denver Union Station is a textbook example of a successful
transit-oriented development. However, because of the increase in people who are unsheltered during
the pandemic, RTD is encountering public health and security challenges at the facility.
RTD has been cited by public health authorities:
• Public Health citation: Upon walking through the bus terminal, I observed approximately 20
people who were either not wearing face coverings, or who were wearing them below their
noses. I also observed one RTD employee at the ticket counter with her mask pulled
completely below her chin as she sat in the ticketing office with another employee who was
wearing a mask. I did not see the employee without a mask eating or drinking. I also
observed several people sitting in the bus terminal who were not socially distanced.
• Public Health citation: On 01-08-2021, at approximately 1315, I, P. Hensley, went to the RTD
bus depot at Union Station located at 1701 Wynkoop St. reference a complaint received by
DDPHE that there were people waiting in the bus terminal (specifically near the Greyhound
Bus stop B3) who were not socially distancing and were in violation of Public Health Order
20-36.

In response to the public health concerns cited, guidance was issued on January 27, 2021, by Debra A. Johnson, RTD general manager and CEO, that was effective immediately and modified the facility rules at Denver
Union Station and included prohibiting eating in the facility (unless medically necessary), prohibiting lying or
sitting on the floor and limiting the number of individuals in restrooms.
From the interviews conducted with stakeholders including Denver Police, it is the panel’s understanding that
RTD transit police officers are prohibited by Denver officials from taking law enforcement actions, including
American Public Transportation Association

6

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Observations:

1.C.1.a

making arrests and issuing citations within the corporate city limits of Denver City and Denver County, and
this prohibition appears to be inconsistent with the statutory authority granted to RTD Transit Police Officers
by the state of Colorado.

Recommendations:
1. That RTD staff continue efforts initiated by the GM and CEO to partner with City and County of
Denver officials to explore solutions to resolve the public health and security challenges and customer
and RTD employee concerns at DUS.
2. RTD transit police may need to seek an intergovernmental agreement to be authorized to transport
people who are taken into custody for processing at the Denver County Jail.
3. DUS bus and train areas should be designated as one of the selected pilot paid fare zone facilities
once the appropriate ordinances and laws needed to support the pilot program, new fare policies and
designation are enacted.
4. That RTD collaborate with City and County of Denver officials to resolve the apparent jurisdictional
issues that prohibit RTD transit police officers from taking direct law enforcement action within the
City and County of Denver.
5. Once the jurisdictional issue is resolved, it is the panel’s recommendation that RTD transit police
consider increasing their presence at Denver Union Station.

4.5 Data collection, methodologies, systems and in-house data systems
Observations:





The panel was advised that crime data used to assist with the deployment of RTD transit police
resources are currently compiled by hand, or without the assistance of computer systems, by a cost
control supervisor assigned to RTD Safety, Security and Asset Management.
Data is important in determining where and when crime and disorder events occur, so the number of
resources required, the appropriate response methods that work best for each type of situation, and the
location where resources should be deployed can be determined so crime and incidents can be
prevented or reduced. Data when it is shared can also be used to improve public safety programs,
community relations and to hold public safety officials accountable.
Detailed information that pinpoints the types and locations of the crime problems of a jurisdiction or
organization is the key to the design of a prevention program.

Recommendations:
1. The panel recommends that RTD consider acquiring a crime analysis software program and a crime
analyst to gather data needed to:
• make resource deployment decisions and provide crime trend analysis;
• keep employees, community leaders, board members and customers informed of crime trends
and patterns; and
• share data with local jurisdictional law enforcement partners so collaborative efforts can be
undertaken and intelligence regarding crime patterns shared.
2. With the information collected, RTD is encouraged to analyze data sets using a performance
management system (e.g., CompStat) intended to reduce crime and align with public safety goals.
Additionally, the information gleaned should be used to accentuate information-sharing and improve
effectiveness. Data related to criminal offenses and incidents, calls for service, use of force, arrests,
contact and arrest demographics, and complaints should be gathered. RTD can then share that data
with the RTD board, employees, customers, and community stakeholders to create awareness;
highlight crime prevention efforts; and encourage trust, transparency and accountability.
3. Additionally, the panel suggests that RTD consider employing intelligence analysis to assist with the
collection, analysis and dissemination of transit security information to help detect and deter threats
and patterns of crime. The intelligence data and crime patterns coupled with the capture of internal
American Public Transportation Association

7

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

4.6 RTD Safety and Security Survey
Observations:








RTD launched a customer survey on Feb. 24, 2021, by sending notifications through Facebook,
Twitter and Instagram. RTD also sent email invitations to its Special Promotions list on Feb. 26. The
survey closed March 10, 2021 and received 1,347 responses.
Approximately one-third of the respondents indicated that they had experienced a situation where
they felt their personal safety/security was at risk when using RTD services. The most common
experiences center around disruptive customers, activities or crowds at Denver Union Station,
experiences with the transient population, incidents at stations and stops, and incidents at night.
When asked what RTD could do to help, respondents provided feedback around the following
themes: police/security presence on vehicles/at stations, refuse/remove disruptive customers from
services, and prevent loitering on RTD services/at stations.
Surveys are a great mechanism to hear from a large, diverse cross-section of the community who are
motivated to share their opinions but may not necessarily be representative of all the region’s
residents. Focus group discussions provide an opportunity to elevate the experiences of customers,
employees and community members.
Customers, community members and employees commonly agree that disruptive behavior from
customers, primarily due to substance overuse or mental health issues, is a top safety concern. It has
also been expressed that customers and employees would like to see staff who interact with the public
receive training on how to better manage and de-escalate situations and that they would like to see a
crisis-intervention team and effective training that equips employees with tools and skills to manage
the situations with disruptive riders.

Recommendations:
That RTD analyze the results from the RTD Safety and Security Survey to inform decisions for the public safety
that includes an evaluation of how stakeholders view the program, determines whether the program is aligned
with RTD’s security objectives, establish priorities, set key measures and timelines to ensure priorities are
achieved and apprises employee training.

4.7 Community policing programs
Observations:




Community policing is a strategy that focuses on building trust between citizens and law enforcement
through mutual understanding and collaboration. Community policing programs are also meant to
encourage partnerships between police and the community.
Many transit police agencies hold community-based events such as toy drives, back-to-school events,
food drives and bicycle safety days and participate in National Night Out events to engage with the
community and to build relationships.
Many police agencies proactively promote public trust by initiating positive nonenforcement
activities to engage communities in order to build trust between the community and police.

Recommendations:
1. The RTD transit police to explore additional opportunities to participate in community activities and
attend community events and meetings.

American Public Transportation Association

8

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

aggregate data on security events can assist with the development of strategies intended to reduce
vulnerabilities and prevent future offenses, incidents and crime.

1.C.1.a

2. The RTD transit police leadership consider leveraging an RTD board committee that is inclusive,
diverse and represents the community to serve in a public safety advisory role, provide feedback
concerning the public safety program and act as transit security advocates.
3. Develop a robust community engagement public safety plan and implement the plan with feedback
and buy-in from community stakeholders and RTD employees.
4. Develop a long-range internal and external public information campaign focused on increasing
awareness of the public safety program and commitment to the safety and equitable treatment of the
community. These campaigns will be valuable as initiatives such as the paid fare zones or as changes
to the RTD public safety program are developed.
5. The RTD transit police leadership review the community policing training provided to RTD transit
police officers and the off-duty law enforcement officers (and TSOs) to ensure that the training
content aligns with the RTD CEO and RTD board’s expectations and the agency culture.
6. That RTD continue to partner with mental health clinicians and social service providers to ensure best
practices are used when responding to people in crisis or with mental health concerns.
7. The RTD transit police expand efforts to provide education on conduct prohibited by the RTD Code
of Conduct to ensure that riders, employees, stakeholders and the community are aware of the
requirements.
8. That RTD continue its social media and other outreach efforts to ensure that they connect to the
various communities in the region to promote public safety, inclusion and transparency.
9. That RTD evaluate the current marketing strategy regarding the RTD public safety program and
include non–social media mediums along with its social media outreach to elevate the message and
engage more with everyone in the community.
10. That RTD expand community outreach by working with various community partners and partner law
enforcement agencies.

4.8 Diversity recruitment
Observations:


RTD notes this table when examining area demographics:



Diversity promotes creativity and open dialogue and encourages new ideas and experiences that lead
to better problem-solving.

American Public Transportation Association

9

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1.C.1.a





Police agencies strive to create a workforce that encompasses a broad range of diversity, including
race, gender, language, life experience and cultural background to improve understanding and
effectiveness in dealing with all communities.
An important consideration for the expansion of the RTD transit police is the ability to attract and
retain new officers.
Law enforcement agencies across the country are experiencing significant police officer vacancies.
RTD will have to be competitive in salary and benefits to attract certified officers from other
jurisdictions. The RTD hiring model of only hiring certified police officers instead of hiring new
officers who are then sponsored for the police academy could be excluding strong, diverse candidates
from the community.

Recommendations:
1. To increase the size of the available diverse employment pool, examine the current hiring policies for
RTD transit police officers with consideration of the benefits of hiring uncertified but diverse
individuals as RTD transit trainee police officers who could then be sent to a Colorado Peace Officer
Standards and Training (POST) certified police academy. Trainees could be obligated to sign a
service length commitment, which would require them to pay back the cost for the training if they
resign prior to the expiration of their obligation.
2. Additional efforts to diversify the employment pool, including that RTD develop appropriate
screening, selection and testing criteria to recruit those best-suited for transition to RTD transit police
officer from the existing TSO contract workforce.
3. That RTD develop and implement strategies and solutions to advance diversity recruitment and
hiring.
4. The panel highlights the 30-by-30 initiative developed by a coalition of police leaders, researchers
and professional organizations to advance the representation of women in policing by 30% by 2030,
as an example of a directed diversity recruitment strategy.
5. The panel adds that another useful recruiting tool could be to partner with the U.S. armed forces.
Colorado has six military bases that could be used as a pipeline for the RTD public safety program.
The military hires could be required to go through the police academy with the prospect that the cost
of the academy could be offset by military benefits.
6. The panel suggests that RTD consider partnerships with community and industry groups such as the
NAACP, the Urban League, the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials (COMTO),
Women’s Transportation Seminar (WTS), Latinos in Transit (LIT) as well as professional
organizations that advocate for Asian, Native American, Hispanic, and Latino communities as
resources to seeking talented and diverse potential employees.

4.9 Diversity training
Observations:


Diversity training is an important step in achieving an inclusive and equitable workplace and a culture
that values respect and effective communication. Training can help employees become more aware of
unconscious bias and other barriers to diversity and inclusion.

Recommendations:
1. The following are suggested examples of training for consideration to increase awareness, knowledge
and communication; demonstrate openness to new perspectives; interact substantively with those who
are different from oneself; demonstrate communication skills that enable intercultural
communication, including effective listening skills; and promote respectful interactions in a variety of
cultural and social contexts:
 Crisis intervention training to assist with the response to those with autism, mental health
issues and homelessness
American Public Transportation Association

10

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1.C.1.a










Mental health first aid
Person-with-disabilities sensitivity and awareness training
Cultural competency
Community-oriented policing
Language skills
De-escalation
Customer service and communication skills
Equity and bias awareness

4.10 Cadet programs
Observations:





Cadet programs are a creative approach for introducing high school graduates to part-time
employment opportunities to serve their community and learn about the law enforcement career.
The Denver Police use an explorer program for young men and women between the ages of 15 and 20
from the Denver metro area as an option to provide exposure to the rigors and requirements of a
career in law enforcement. Both cadet and explorer programs typically require participants to attend
training comparable to police recruit academy training.
There are costs associated with both programs. The programs require dedicated staff to supervise,
train and manage the cadets and explorers; expenditures are required to purchase uniforms and
provide training; and some programs provide a stipend or tuition reimbursement.

Recommendations:
1. That RTD consider leveraging existing community outreach programs.
2. Many transit agencies partner with local public high schools to develop programs designed to
introduce students to the transportation industry and careers in transportation, or partner with
universities to attract college interns interested in a career in transportation—or in this case law
enforcement or emergency management.
• For example, the Chicago Transit Authority has a high school internship program that seeks
to increase knowledge of and interest in the nation’s critical infrastructure sector and careers
in transportation. The program is designed to expose youth to concepts of sustainability,
resilience, equity, inclusion and environmental justice as it relates to their presentation in the
critical infrastructure sector.

4.11 Community engagement through social media
Observations:


The panel heard from those interviewed that not everyone uses social media or accesses the RTD
website page and therefore may not receive important messages from RTD.

Recommendations:
1. That RTD explore the use of messaging using local media outlets; signage at transit facilities and bus
stops and on trains and buses; and other non–social media mediums.

4.12 Increased awareness with stakeholders and employees
Observations:


On March 9, 2021, the CEO launched the “People Who Move People” awareness campaign that
highlights operators, mechanics, engineers, accountants and everyone in between and their unique
stories, showcasing personalities, passions and transit workers’ connection to the community and
commitment to the RTD mission to move people.

American Public Transportation Association

11

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1. That the RTD Board of Directors and staff conduct ongoing community outreach to engage the public
in order to receive feedback about new public safety program initiatives. This feedback will enable
RTD to enhance the security model during each phase of the reorganization. The outreach goals could
also generate awareness about the RTD public safety program, create opportunities to gather
community feedback about safety and security, provide public education about the public safety
model and its benefits, explain new initiatives like the paid fare zone pilots, highlight crime
prevention, promote the RTD Transit Watch program, and expand a relationship with community
partners and law enforcement agencies.
2. RTD transit police to work with the community, employees and customers to identify safety and
security issues and concerns and collaborate on implementing solutions that produce meaningful
results.
3. RTD to expand social media platform usage to include the public safety program to increase
awareness and help cultivate a spirit of transparency. When media reports cast negative imagery of
law enforcement, it can be beneficial that good-news stories about the public safety program have
been shared. The President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing in May 2015 outlined the effective
ways the use of technology can improve public safety practices and build community trust and
legitimacy.

4.13 Communications center
Observations:





The panel was advised that RTD has 26 public safety dispatchers certified for law enforcement and
emergency services operations who are responsible for approximately 53,000 annual reportable
incidents, as well as the other security application and platforms listed below:
• Transit Watch Hot Line
• Text messaging
• Email support
• Transit Watch app for iPhone and Android
• Live CCTV monitoring
• Alarms
• Customer care line
The panel was advised that dispatchers must log on to 16 different programs (through the Situator
platform) at the start of their shift and must receive all training required to meet compliance
adherence to the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials (APCO) standards.
The panel was informed that RTD operates two communications centers each with two dispatchers
and one manager per shift at each center.

Recommendations:
1. That RTD conduct a workload analysis for both the communications dispatchers and managers and
evaluate service demands to determine appropriate staffing levels, identify the skills and knowledge
required to perform the job functions, and verify the training required for public safety dispatchers
and managers.
2. That RTD assess the APCO and Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies
(CALEA) standards as resources for Communication Center best practices and training requirements.
3. That RTD perform a workflow analysis of calls for service from the bus and rail employees that are
received and then routed through the bus and rail operations dispatch centers to the RTD police
communications center for appropriate assignment, response and resolution.
4. The panel recommends that RTD examine the agreement that requires a separate dispatch center for
the Commuter Rail to determine if an opportunity arises to merge both dispatch centers, as one RTD
transit police unified communications center could be optimal.
American Public Transportation Association

12

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Recommendations:

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

4.14 Gap analysis of the existing transit policing model


The following comments were heard by the panel during the interviews:
Community policing is an effective way to engage the public.
• Consider expanding the ambassador program.
• RTD should increase mental health training.
• RTD should solicit the public’s feedback on strategies for effectively policing the transit
system.
• RTD should not be in the security business; they should be in the transportation business.
• Suggest RTD look at the Cahoots (Crisis Assistance Helping Out On The Streets) program in Eugene, Oregon, and the STAR program (Support Team Assisted Response) in
Denver where non–law enforcement professionals such as EMTs, (Emergency Medical
Technicians) mental health professionals and social workers respond.

•

Mental health personnel should be available to assist with nonviolent people, and
security/police should be there to deal with violent people that are threatening employees’ and customers’ safety.

•





Recommend implementing measures to ensure that non-customers are not loitering at
facilities.
• It is not necessary for RTD to enforce every rule and regulation.
• Having armed, fully trained police officers is the gold standard for security; however, the
gold standard is too expensive, so RTD will need a mixture of police and technology.
• Would support the use of off-duty police officers to ride the system and provide added
visibility.
• Need to develop a specialized unit to deal with homeless issues.
• Would like to see more security presence on the system.
• Suggest more education on what RTD transit police are doing and how passengers and
employees can promote safety and security.
The panel interviews and discussions revealed complicated attitudes about transit police. A majority
appeared to support a police presence. However, the panel heard reservations about whether police
are the best choice to respond to nonviolent situations and deal with people who are unsheltered or
experiencing mental health issues, and if there are other ways to manage disruptive behavior before
police are called.
Many of those interviewed thought that the contract transit security officers may be ill-equipped to
resolve many of the situations they are called to respond to. Employees expressed a desire to receive
greater support and quicker backup, and they view transit police as an effective and helpful presence.
Some employees shared that they feel they are largely on their own in responding to some difficult
situations. The process of calling for backup is seen as time-consuming and frustrating.

Reorganization Recommendations:
1. Concurs with the phased approach to increase internal transit police staffing levels and reduce the
number of contacted transit security officers.
2. That RTD evaluate the effectiveness of the mental health outreach, examine the key performance
indicators, and consider expanding the mental health outreach efforts if the evaluation demonstrates
that the program has positive outcomes.
3. That to accurately evaluate the use of ambassadors on the RTD Commuter Rail that this initiative
should be reevaluated post-COVID when ridership increases.
4. RTD to increase awareness in the community regarding the RTD public safety program.
5. That RTD create additional opportunities to gather community feedback about the public safety
program.

American Public Transportation Association

13

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Observations:

1.C.1.a

6. That RTD engage employees, union members, board members, stakeholders and customers regarding
enhancements to the public safety model.
7. The panel recommends that RTD examine opportunities to expand the use of the RTD Transit Watch
program to increase the number of riders on buses, trains and in transit hubs who could quickly
communicate safety and security concerns directly to transit police.
8. The panel urges RTD to use feedback gained from community and stakeholder engagement to
continue to enhance and reimagine the RTD public safety model.
9. The panel highlights that due to recent national events that have cast a spotlight on law enforcement,
that police departments must establish a culture of transparency and accountability to build public
trust and legitimacy. This is critical to ensuring that decision-making is understood and in accordance
with an organization’s mission and to maintain the public trust.

4.15 Bus operations
Observations:




Bus operators expressed a concern that there appears to be miscommunication between RTD bus
dispatch personnel and RTD Communications Center dispatch personnel, as well as the Denver
Police Department communications, center which results in gaps in resources being assigned and
delays in response from the appropriate security or law enforcement resources.
Bus operators interviewed expressed confusion on alerting bus dispatch to emergency situations and
suggested that there is no pre-check inspection procedure for silent alarms and that responses to the
activation of silent alarms vary. This confusion discourages some bus operators from using this
important tool.

Recommendations:
1. That Bus Operations outline and communicate the processes for operators to seek support during
emergencies and create a process to check the silent alarm during the pre-trip inspection. The panel
recommends that the processes for the silent alarm check during the pre-trip inspection be reviewed
with bus dispatch personnel to ensure their understanding of the procedures and policy.
2. The panel suggests that a workflow analysis be performed of how incidents received by bus
dispatchers are converted to tasks and actions that bus dispatchers must complete to coordinate with
the RTD transit police Communication Center dispatchers, so any gaps can be identified, mitigated
and improved.

4.16 Emergency management
Observations:


RTD does not have an emergency preparedness manager or an emergency operations center.

Recommendations:
1. That RTD query other peer transit agencies for best practices in transit emergency management and
their implementation of the public transportation agency safety plan emergency management
requirements for the assignment of employee responsibilities during an emergency, as well as
coordination with federal, state, regional and local officials with roles and responsibilities for
emergency preparedness and response in the RTD service area.
2. That a location or virtual platform be identified that can be used for centralized command to
implement the principles of emergency management functions at a strategic level during an
emergency and ensuring continuity of operations.

American Public Transportation Association

14

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

The observations and recommendations in this report are intended to assist the Regional Transportation
District of Denver in pursuing industry best practices for strengthening its public safety program and
enhancing their existing transit policing model.
The panel sincerely appreciates the support and assistance extended throughout the entire peer-review process
by all RTD personnel, board members, union members and stakeholders.

American Public Transportation Association

15

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

5. Concluding remarks

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

January 19, 2021

Mr. Brian Alberts
Director of Safety
American Public Transportation Association
1300 I Street, NW, Suite 1200 East
Washington, DC 20005

Regional
Transportation
District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO
80202
303.299.6000

Re: Virtual Peer Review Request - Gap Analysis of Existing Transit Policing Model and
Reorganization Recommendations
Dear Mr. Alberts:
The (RTD) Regional Transportation District is considering modifying its existing Transit
Security model. RTD currently invests approximately $30 million dollars annually to support
a security model, that consists of a small contingency of 14 RTD internal transit police
officers, 300 contracted armed security officers, as well as support from secondary
employment police officers from local police agencies through Inter-Governmental
Agreements.
RTD currently utilizes contracted uniformed armed security officers as first responders, fare
inspectors and critical infrastructure security. These security officers are supported by RTD
internal transit police officers and secondary employment transit police officers from the cities
of Denver, Aurora, Arvada, Lakewood, and Thornton. In addition to police officers and armed
security, RTD has four mental health clinicians and a Homeless Outreach Coordinator
included in this security model.
I am requesting that APTA coordinate a Virtual Peer Review to be conducted by Transit
Police Chiefs, Commanders or Consultants with experience in the operation of full-service
community policing models. During this peer review we would like to focus on:
•
•
•
•
•

Concerns regarding Response models that include contracted security that often
serve as the "First Responder."
Recommendations for Community Policing Programs, Recruiting/Training Diverse
Officers, Use of Community Service Officers (Ambassadors), Cadet Programs,
Community Engagement, and Social Media to communicate and increase awareness.
Use of "Paid Fare Zones" in intermodal transit facilities (i.e., Denver Union Station).
Use of Armed Security as Second Crew Members/Fare Inspectors on commuter rail
and potential conversion to Train Conductors.
Collection and use of system data (i.e., incidents, assaults, fare evasion,
demographics) - methodologies and systems.

RTD Police Chief Robert Grado will be the staff liaison coordinating the virtual peer review.
RTD would like to start the peer review as soon as practicable, but no later than the week of
February 8, 2021.

rtd-denver.com

American Public Transportation Association

16

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Appendix A: Letter of request

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.a

FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

American Public Transportation Association

17

Packet Pg. 26

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

Appendix B: Peer review agenda
Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

Interviews were held virtually using Teams. The times listed are Denver times.
March 4

3:00–4:30: Mike Meader
3:00–4:30: Bob Grado
3:00–4:30: Steve Martingano
3:00–4:30: Karl Ballard
4:30–5:00: Michelle Lawrence
March 8

3:00–3:30: Kimberley Ming-Ford
3:30–4:00: Lance Longenbohn
4:00–4:30: Melanie Snyder
4:30–5:00: Director Shontel Lewis
March 10

3:00–3:30: Lt. Sean Farris, Denver PD
3:30–4:00: Lt. Jim Lesnansky, Aurora PD
4:00–5:00: Reagan Pena, Allied Universal
March 15

3:00–3:30: Ron Short, ATU Union
3:30–4:00: Fred Worthen, AGM Bus
4:00–4:30: Dave Jensen, AGM Rail
4:30–5:00: Director Kate Williams
March 17

3:00–3:30: Danielle Jones, Mental Health Program Coordinator
3:30–4:00: Director Angie Rivera, Malpiede
4:00–4:30: Director Julien Bouquet
4:30–5:00: Michael Ford
March 22

3:00–3:30: Walter Palmgren, ATU Union
3:30–4:00: Barbara O’Donnell
4:00–4:30: Lindsey Alarcon
4:30–5:00: Pastor Del Phillips

American Public Transportation Association

18

Packet Pg. 27

1.C.1.a
FINDINGS OF THE NATSA PEER REVIEW PANEL

Appendix C: Document list

American Public Transportation Association

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review Final Report_06012021 (4526 : APTA Transit Security Model Peer Review

The following documents were made available to the peer review team:
1. Director Lewis Presentation: Transit Security Elsewhere
2. DUS Bus Concourse Security Model
3. Recommended Change to Address the Comfort & Safety of RTD Staff and Ridership
4. Reportable & Non-Reportable Part 1 Crimes (2020) Multiple Tabs with Individual Numbers
5. 2019 vs 2021 Transit Police Budget
6. Calls by Day & Time
7. How Calls are Reported
8. Personal Crimes Report
9. Denver Union Station Monthly Trend Comparison
10. Current Contracted Allied Universal Hours
11. DUS Paid Fare Zone Presentation
12. 42-4-1416 Failure to Present Fare CRS.
13. RTD Code of Conduct
14. Early morning walk-thru video DUS
15. Robbery assault of a customer photo DUS
16. Station photos DUS
17. Vandalism photos DUS
18. Monthly Trend Report for February 2021
19. Personal Crime Trend Report for February 2021
20. Citations and Customer Demographics
21. Transit Police Division Security Model Presentation 2021
22. Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee presentation
23. Personal Safety and Security Survey Report April 2021

19

Packet Pg. 28

Regional Transportation District
Denver (RTD)
Peer Review
Provided by the American Public
Transportation Association
June 8, 2021

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Peer Review Team
Wanda Dunham
Vice President of System Safety, Security & Emergency Management and Chief of Police (Retired), MARTA
Atlanta, GA
Aston Greene
Executive Officer/Deputy Chief, System Security & Law Enforcement Division, Los Angeles Metro
Los Angeles, CA
Ed Alvarez
Chief of Police, Bay Area Rapid Transit Police (BART)
San Francisco, CA

Ron Pavlik
Chief of Police, Metro Transit Police, Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA)
Washington DC

Packet Pg. 30

RTD Security Peer Review2

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Peer Review Team
Matt Walling
Deputy Police Chief, Dallas Area Rapid Transit Police (DART)
Dallas, TX
Polly Hanson- Facilitator
Senior Director of Security, Emergency & Risk Management
American Public Transportation Association, Washington DC
DeeNaye Williams – Staff Support
Peer Review Administrator
American Public Transportation Association, Washington DC

Packet Pg. 31

RTD Security Peer Review13

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Regional Transportation District

Agenda
• Scope of Review
• Peer Review Objectives
• Methodology

• Findings, Observations & Recommendations
Packet Pg. 32

RTD Security Peer Review 4

The APTA Peer Review Panel, was convened virtually, at the request of
Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO, Regional Transportation
District of Denver (RTD), to assist the organization in performing a Gap
Analysis of the Existing Transit Policing Model and Provide
Reorganization Recommendations, during the time frame of February 16
through March 24, 2021.
The observations and recommendations provided through this peer review
are offered as an industry resource to be considered by RTD in support of
creating a reimagined public safety program.

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Scope of Review

1.C.1.b

RTD Security Peer Review I 5

1.C.1.b

The APTA Peer Review process is well established as a valuable resource
to the public transit industry.
Highly experienced and respected source matter experts and transit
professionals provided their time and support to address the scope
required.
The panel conducted this peer review through documentation review and
a series of virtual briefings. 25 interviews were conducted with RTD
board members, the General Manager, RTD staff, union members and
agency stakeholders.
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Peer Review Methodology

RTD Security Peer Review I 6

1.C.1.b

• Evaluate Response Models that include Contracted Security Serving as
"First Responders”
• Examine the Use of Contracted Armed Security as Second Crew
Members/Fare Inspectors and/or Conversion to Train Conductors
onboard RTD Commuter Rail

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Peer Review Scope

RTD Security Peer Review I 7

1.C.1.b

• Review The Use of Paid Fare Zones in Intermodal Transit Facilities
• Examine Data Collection, Methodologies, Systems and the Use of InHouse System Data

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Peer Review Scope continued

Packet Pg. 36 8

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

Additionally, Provide Recommendations for the Development of:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Community Policing Programs;
Diversity Recruitment;
Diversity Training;
Community Service Officers & Cadet Programs;
Community Engagement Through Social Media; and
Increased Awareness with Stakeholders and Employees

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Peer Review Scope continued

Packet Pg. 37 9

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b














Director Julien Bouquet
Director Shontel Lewis
Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Director Kate Williams
General Manager Debra Johnson
Mike Meader
Bob Grado
Steve Martingano
Karl Ballard
Michelle Lawrence
Kimberley Ford
Melanie Snyder















Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Interviews Conducted with 25 Individuals:
Fred Worthen
Dave Jensen
Danielle Jones
Michael Ford
Lindsey Alarcon
Reagan Pena
Barbara O’Donnell
Ron Short
Lance Longenbohn
Walter Palmgren
Lt. Sean Farris
Lt. Jim Lesnansky
Pastor Del Phillips
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

57 Recommendations Made

Packet Pg. 39

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

RTD Peer Review

Industry Best Practices,
Observations and
Recommendations

Packet Pg. 40

RTD Security Peer Review I 12

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

RTD’s Commitment
RTD is committed to offering safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and costeffective transportation throughout the District to all constituents.

RTD strives to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and has equal access to
transportation.
RTD Code of Conduct

Packet Pg. 41

RTD Security Peer Review I 13

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Current Model
55 RTD internal division employees
20 Sworn Transit Police Officers
305 Armed Transit Security Officers
350 part time secondary employment
police officers
(the equivalent of 64 full-time police
officers)

Packet Pg. 42

RTD Security Peer Review I 14

1.C.1.b

What we heard during interviews:
• Not a fan of the current security company at RTD, they do not have a good reputation.
• Not every call requires a critical response and officers need to change their mindset
when they respond.
• Preference is not to have private security guards acting as first responders.
• Suggest reducing the use of contract security guards but not sure on what would be the
correct mix or the appropriate number for a hybrid approach.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Current Model

Packet Pg. 4315

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

What we heard during interviews:
• People need to see a security presence.

• Turnstiles can help limit people entering Denver Union Station (DUS), making sure
ticketed riders enter the area.
• DUS transit security officer can only stand and watch while waiting for transit police
to respond, which takes 30-45 minutes and security has no authority to escort
individuals off property/buses.
• If you are limiting security officers’ ability to react, then put more actual transit police
officers out on the road patrolling, not in garages.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Current Model

Packet Pg. 4416

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

What we heard during interviews:
• Large amounts of loitering at DUS.

• Bus operators receive no support dealing with “frequent flyers”.
• Long response times for the Denver Police.
• Give security the authority they need to actually secure areas, rather than waiting for
a response from another agency.
• Aurora PD will get on Colfax route but will exit the route before entering Denver.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Current Model

Packet Pg. 4517

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

What we heard during interviews:
• Why doesn’t Denver PD police the area that they are paid to police?; Why should RTD
have to continue to pay for services that we, as taxpayers, already pay for?

• Would like for the peer review panel to review RTD’s current policies and procedures to
ensure that they are sound and have incorporated lessons learned from the Stinnett
case.
• How do we measure success of the security function?
• When dealing with kids, they should use the least amount of force necessary to control
the situation, they should work with kids and use their voices instead of their weapons.
• RTD drivers and operators have safety concerns.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Current Model

Packet Pg. 46
I 18

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Proposed RTD Transit Security Model

Packet Pg. 47
I 19

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

What we heard during interviews:
• Community oriented policing is still effective when dealing with the public.
• Would like to see more unarmed security guards and social workers on the system.

• Want to expand the ambassador program.
• RTD should expand training for all officers related to mental health issues.
• Suggest having more community volunteers to provide security oversight and less
officers so that they can talk out the situation without the need to involve police.
• Solicit public’s feedback on strategies of effective policing.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Proposed Model

.

Packet Pg. 48
I 20

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

What we heard during interviews:
• RTD should not be in the security business, they should be in the transportation business.

• They should call the real police when there is a life safety issue.
• Suggest RTD look at the Cahoots (Crisis Assistance Helping Out On The Streets) program in
Eugene, Oregon and the STAR (Support Team Assisted Response) program in Denver where
non-law enforcement officials such as EMTs (emergency medical technicians), mental health
professionals and social workers respond.

• Security/police should be there to deal with violent people that are threating operator safety.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Proposed Model

Packet Pg. 49
I 21

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

What we heard during interviews:
• Doesn’t feel that it is necessary for RTD to enforce every rule and regulation.
• I know having armed and fully trained police officers is the gold standard for security,
however, the gold standard is too expensive, so RTD will need a mixture of police and
technology.
• Would support the use of off-duty police officers to ride the system and provide added
visibility.
• Need to develop a specialized unit to deal with homeless issues.
• Would like to see more of a security presence on the system.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Proposed Model

Packet Pg. 5022

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

Phased approach to increase
internal police staffing levels.
Phased reduction of contacted
security officer staffing and duties.
Continued expansion of mental
health and outreach partners.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Proposed Model

Packet Pg. 51
I 23

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

•
•
•

•
•

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Proposed Model
Generate awareness about the Transit
Police Division.
Create opportunities to gather
community feedback about transit
security.
Provide public education about the
new security model and its benefits.
Promote the RTD Transit Watch
program.
Expand outreach by working with
community partners and law
enforcement agencies.

Packet Pg. 52

RTD Security Peer Review I 24

1.C.1.b

Conduct community outreach
to receive customer feedback
about the plan and enhance
social media profile.
Enhance the security model
using feedback during each
phase of the reorganization.
Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Proposed Model

RTD Security Peer Review I 25

1.C.1.b

The panel suggests that data regarding ridership, crime and
customer satisfaction, in addition to community input, inform the
deployment strategy and public safety hybrid model of RTD. This
model should include RTD transit police, contract security guards,
off-duty police, ambassadors and mental health clinicians.
Deployment strategies should be re-visited after service returns to
pre-pandemic levels.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Future Model: Recommendation

Packet Pg. 5426

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

The peer review panel supports the proposal to decrease
the non-sworn transit security officers (TSO) acting as
law enforcement officers, and to increase the number of
sworn RTD transit police officers available for
deployment to respond to calls for service, particularly on
buses and trains.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Proposed Model Recommendation

Packet Pg. 55
I 27

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• Deployment of contract security officers is driven by
the contract.
• Contract security currently receive only three weeks of
general training from the contractor.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Armed Contract Security Acting as Law Enforcement

Packet Pg. 5628

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

The contract transit security officer
(TSO) turnover rate fluctuated from 40
to below 60 % from March of 2019
until September 2020, when it climbed
to 70% and then increased to 84% in
January 2021. The national average
turnover rate for contract security
officers is 40%. Without exit interview
information from the contractor, Allied
Universal, the reason(s) for the increase
in departures is undetermined.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Armed Contract Security Acting as Law Enforcement

Packet Pg. 57
I 29

Armed Contract Security Acting as Law
Enforcement
While the cost of contract security may appear to be less than the
cost of sworn transit police, the quality of service may be dissimilar,
resulting from the extensive training that sworn transit police
receive. As employees of RTD, the sworn transit police align their
values and performance to RTD’s standards and principles and may
see their employment as more of a career than a job.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 58
I 30

1.C.1.b

The panel recommends that a
staffing study be completed to
provide RTD with short and
long-term plans for deploying
the appropriate number of
transit police and contract
security officers based on RTD
and community expectations
for public safety.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Armed Contract Security Acting as Law Enforcement

Packet Pg. 59
I 31

RTD Security Peer Review

Armed Contract Security as Second Crew Members/Fare Inspectors
or Conversion to Train Conductors onboard RTD Commuter Rail
• The panel suggests that to accurately evaluate the utilization of ambassadors on the
RTD Commuter Rail, that this initiative be reevaluated post-pandemic when
ridership increases.
• If ambassadors are permanently converted to a second crew member/conductor role,
the panel recommends that the deployment of security, RTD transit police or off-duty
law enforcement personnel, be evaluated to ensure that there is an appropriate
response to security incidents onboard trains or at facilities.
• An evaluation of the second crew member/conductor deployment be conducted to
assess the effectiveness of the prevention of crime and perception of safety and
security.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 60
I 32

RTD Security Peer Review

Armed Contract Security as Second Crew Members/Fare Inspectors
or Conversion to Train Conductors onboard RTD Commuter Rail

The panel recommends the deployment of RTD transit police, offduty law enforcement or TSOs at the end of rail lines to assist with
clearing the trains before they go into the tail track. This is in
response to concerns communicated by operations staff who
reported that not all passengers clear the train at the end of the run
which creates a safety issue for train operators and customers.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 61
I 33

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

The Use of Paid Fare Zones in Intermodal Transit
Facilities

Packet Pg. 62
I 34

RTD Security Peer Review

The Use of Paid Fare Zones in Intermodal
Transit Facilities
It is suggested that RTD transit police and RTD legal counsel work
with local prosecutors and police, as well as other stakeholders, to
shape the ordinances, laws or rules that would need to be created or
enforced as well as the requirements and methods for customer
notification and the consequences for violations of the paid fare
zone rules.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 63
I 35

RTD Security Peer Review

The Use of Paid Fare Zones in Intermodal
Transit Facilities
• Once the authority to create paid fare zones is in place, the panel recommends
that RTD consider conducting a pilot program of paid fare zones at several
select facilities to measure their effectiveness. Based on the results of the
evaluation, RTD could consider expanding paid fare zones to other stations
throughout the system.
• RTD socialize this pilot program and the fare policy modifications that include
signage, announcements, program marketing, and branding, with RTD board
members, elected leaders, community stakeholders, customers, RTD
employees and local law enforcement.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 64
I 36

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Denver Union Station (DUS)

Packet Pg. 65
I 37

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• The 22-gate underground bus facility opened to the public in the spring of 2014.
• Allied Universal Security was the primary resource for security operations, as RTD
contractors.
• Security is supplemented by off-duty Denver Police, as secondary transit police
officers, as needed.
• The RTD Code of Conduct was first implemented in 2016 to help with the influx of
non-paying, unhoused people utilizing the facility as an option for shelter during cold
weather events.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Background Denver Union Station

Packet Pg. 66
I 38

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• Due to the high number of complaints, in 2019, the RTD Transit Police Division
requested assistance and the RTD Planning Division formed a Homeless Task Force.
• In 2019, the Transit Police Division presented a plan to create a “Paid Fare Zone”
which was not pursued due to the outbreak of COVID-19.
• In 2020, the RTD Board of Directors formed an “Ad-hoc” Code of Conduct
Committee, who recommended revisions to the code of conduct which allowed persons
to lie down on RTD property and utilize power outlets to charge personal devices, such
as mobile smart phones.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Background

Packet Pg. 67
I 39

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• In 2020, the RTD Transit Police proposed the possibility of “Direct Filing” criminal
charges with the Denver District Attorney (currently, RTD Transit Police can only
enforce laws in other counties).
• The addition of the Greyhound Bus lines created more challenges.
• January 2021, RTD General Manager Debra Johnson modified facility rules at DUS ;
prohibiting eating (unless medically necessary), prohibiting lying or sitting on the floor
and limiting the number of individuals in restrooms.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Background continued

Packet Pg. 68
I 40

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• It’s the panel’s understanding that RTD Transit Police Officers are prohibited by
Denver officials from taking enforcement actions, including making arrests and issuing
citations, within the corporate city limits of Denver and Denver County which includes
Denver Union Station.
• The panel was advised that this prohibition may be inconsistent with the statutory
authority granted to RTD Transit Police Officers by the State of Colorado.
• Currently, Denver Police must be dispatched to DUS and take whatever action they
deem appropriate, even when the RTD Transit Police are present are on the scene.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Denver Union Station (DUS)

Packet Pg. 69
I 41

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Due to public complaints received concerning the numbers of persons lingering at
the underground bus terminal within Denver Union Station and complaints
alleging that individuals were not wearing facial coverings or may be wearing
them incorrectly and that this requirement is not enforced, RTD was cited by
Public Health officials.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Denver Union Station continued

Packet Pg. 70
I 42

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Public Health citation:
Upon walking through the bus terminal, I observed approximately 20 people who
were either not wearing face coverings, or who were wearing them below their
noses. I also observed one RTD employee at the ticket counter with her mask
pulled completely below her chin as she sat in the ticketing office with another
employee who was wearing a mask. I did not see the employee without a mask
eating or drinking. I also observed several people sitting in the bus terminal who
were not socially distanced.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Denver Union Station continued

Packet Pg. 71
I 43

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Public Health citation:
On 01-08-2021, at approximately 1315, I, P. Hensley, went to the RTD bus depot
at Union Station located at 1701 Wynkoop St. reference a complaint received by
DDPHE that there were people waiting in the bus terminal (specifically near the
Greyhound Bus stop B3) who were not socially distancing and were in violation
of Public Health Order 20-36.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Denver Union Station continued

Packet Pg. 72
I 44

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Union Station Bus

Packet Pg. 73
I 45

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Union Station Indoors

Packet Pg. 74
I 46

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Union Station Indoors

Packet Pg. 7547

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Union Station Vandalism

Packet Pg. 76
I 48

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• It’s the panel’s recommendation that RTD representatives continue efforts, initiated by RTD
General Manager, Debra Johnson, to partner with the City of Denver and County of Denver
officials to explore solutions to resolve the public health and customer service concerns at
DUS.
• RTD representatives collaborate with the City of Denver and County of Denver officials to
resolve the apparent jurisdictional conflict that prohibits RTD transit officers from taking
enforcement action within the corporate city limits of Denver/Denver County.

• When the jurisdictional issue is resolved, RTD Transit Police should consider an increase in
its presence at Union Station.
• DUS bus and train areas should be designated as one of the paid fare zone locations once the
appropriate ordinances, policies, and procedures are created.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Union Station: Recommendations

Packet Pg. 7749

RTD Security Peer Review I

Data Collection, Methodologies, Systems
and the Use of In-House System Data
The panel recommends that RTD consider acquiring a crime analysis software
program and a crime analyst to gather data needed to:
• Make resource deployment decisions and provide crime analysis trends,
• Keep employees, community leaders, board members, and customers
informed of crime trends and patterns,
• Share data with local jurisdictional law enforcement partners, so collaborative
efforts can be undertaken and crime intelligence shared.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 78
I 50

RTD Security Peer Review

Data Collection, Methodologies, Systems
and the Use of In-House System Data
With the information collected, RTD transit police are encouraged to analyze
relevant data sets using a performance management system (e.g., CompStat) in
order to reduce crime and align security efforts with the RTD public safety goals.
Data related to criminal offenses and incidents, calls for service, use of force,
arrests, contact and arrest demographics and complaints should be gathered and
shared with the RTD board, employees, customers and community stakeholders
to create awareness, highlight crime prevention efforts and encourage trust,
transparency, and accountability.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 79
I 51

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

RTD Safety & Security Survey
Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

The panel recommends that RTD
analyze the results from the RTD Safety
& Security Survey to inform decisions
on the public safety program that
includes an evaluation of how
stakeholders view the program,
determine whether the program is
aligned with RTD’s security objectives,
establish priorities, set key performance
indicators and timelines to ensure
priorities are achieved and to apprise
employee training.
Packet Pg. 80

RTD Security Peer Review 52

1.C.1.b

• Community policing is a strategy that
focuses on building trust between
citizens and law enforcement through
mutual understanding and
collaboration. Community policing
programs are also meant to encourage
partnerships between local police and
the community.
• Many transit police agencies hold
community-based events such as toy
drives, back-to- school events, food
drives, bicycle safety days, and
participate in National Night Out
events to engage with the community
and to build relationships.
Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Community Policing

RTD Security Peer Review I 53

1.C.1.b

• The panel encourages the RTD Transit Police Division to explore opportunities
to participate in community activities and attend community events and
meetings.
• RTD transit police leadership should leverage a RTD board committee that is
inclusive, diverse and represents the community, to serve in a public safety
advisory role, provide feedback and oversight concerning the public safety
programs and act as transit security advocates.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Community Policing Programs

Packet Pg. 82
I 54

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• The panel recommends that RTD develop a long-range internal and external
marketing campaign focused on increasing the awareness of the public safety
program and high equitable treatment of the community.
• RTD transit police leadership review the community policing training provided
to RTD police officers, the off-duty law enforcement officers and TSO’s to
ensure that the training content aligns with RTD General Manager’s, RTD board
and the RTD agency culture.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Community Policing Programs

Packet Pg. 83
I 55

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• The panel suggests that RTD continue to partner with mental
health clinicians and social service providers to ensure best
practices are used when responding to people in crisis or with
mental health concerns.

• RTD transit police expand efforts to provide education on
conduct prohibited by the RTD Code of Conduct to ensure that
customers, employees, stakeholders and the community are
aware of the requirements.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Community Policing Programs

Packet Pg. 8456

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Community Policing Programs
• The panel suggests that RTD continue its social media
outreach and use other outreach efforts to ensure they
connect to various communities and promote public
safety, inclusion and transparency.
• The panel recommends that RTD evaluate the current
marketing strategy regarding the RTD public safety
program and include non-social media mediums along
with its social media outreach, to elevate the message
and engage with everyone in the community.

Packet Pg. 85
I 57

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Community Engagement and Social
Media to Increase Awareness
Operators, mechanics, engineers, accountants
and everyone in between and their unique stories,
showcasing personality, passions and their connection
to the community and commitment to the RTD mission
to move people.

Packet Pg. 86
I 58

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Diversity Recruitment

Packet Pg. 8759

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

General Denver Demographics
Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

.

Packet Pg. 88
I 60

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• To increase the size of an available diverse employment pool, the panel recommends that
current hiring policies for RTD transit police officers be examined with consideration of
the benefits of hiring of uncertified and diverse individuals as RTD transit police trainee
officers who would be sent to a Colorado POST certified police academy.
• Trainees could be obligated to sign a service length commitment and be required to pay
back the cost for the training if they resign prior to the expiration of their obligation.

• In its efforts to diversify its employment pool, the panel recommends that RTD develop
appropriate screening/selection/testing criteria to recruit those best suited for transition
to RTD transit police officer from the existing TSO contract workforce.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Diversity Recruitment

Packet Pg. 8961

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• The panel suggests that RTD develop and implement strategies
and solutions to advance diversity recruitment and hiring.

• The panel highlights the 30-by-30 initiative developed by a
coalition of police leaders, researchers, and professional
organizations to advance the representation of women in policing
by 30% by 2030, as an example of a diversity recruitment
strategy.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Diversity Recruitment

Packet Pg. 9062

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

RTD consider partnerships with community and industry groups
such as the NAACP, the Urban League, the Conference of Minority
Transportation Officials (COMTO), Women’s Transportation
Seminar (WTS), Latinos in Transit (LIT) as well as professional
organizations that advocate for Asian, Native American, Hispanic,
and Latino communities, as resources to seek talented and diverse
potential employees.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Diversity Recruitment

Packet Pg. 91
I 63

1.C.1.b

The panel adds that another useful
recruiting tool could be to partner with
the U.S. armed forces. Colorado has
six military bases that could be used
as a pipeline for the RTD public safety
program. The military hires could be
required to go through the police
academy with the prospect that the
cost of the academy could be offset by
military benefits.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Diversity Recruitment

Packet Pg. 92
I 64

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

1.C.1.b

Communications Center

Packet Pg. 93
I

65

1.C.1.b

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Communications Center
26 Public Safety Dispatchers Certified for Law Enforcement & EMS Operations
Responsible for approximately 53,000 Annual Reportable Incidents
• Transit Watch Hot Line
• Text Messaging
• Email Support
• Transit Watch App for iPhone and DROID
• Training & Compliance Oversight: APCO Standards
• Live CCTV Monitoring
• Alarms
• Customer Care

Packet Pg. 94
I 66

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• The panel recommends that RTD conduct a workload analysis for both
dispatchers and communications center managers and evaluate service
demands to determine the appropriate staffing levels, identify the skills and
knowledge required to perform the job functions and verify the training
required for public safety dispatchers.
• RTD assess the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials
(APCO) and Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies
(CALEA) standards as resources for Communication Center best practices and
training requirements.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Communications Center

Packet Pg. 95
I 67

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

• The panel suggests that RTD perform a workflow analysis of calls for service
from bus and rail employees that are received and routed through the bus and
rail operations dispatch centers to the RTD police communications center for
appropriate assignment, response and resolution.
• RTD examine the agreement that requires a separate dispatch center for the
Commuter Rail to determine if an opportunity arises to merge both dispatch
centers, one unified communications center could be optimal.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Communications Center

Packet Pg. 9668

RTD Security Peer Review

1.C.1.b

•

The findings provided through this review are intended to
assist RTD enhance the security model and inform
enhancements to increase public safety.

•

A full report of the peer review panel’s observations and
recommendations has been crafted.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Concluding Remarks

Packet Pg. 9769

RTD Security Peer Review I

1.C.1.b

The panel sincerely appreciates the support and assistance
extended throughout the entire peer review process by RTD. The
panel stands available to assist with any clarification or
subsequent support that RTD may need.

Attachment: RTD Transit Security Model Peer Review

Concluding Remarks

Packet Pg. 98
I 70

TITLE OF PRESENTATION

