2021-06-08
Operations & Customer Service Committee
JOHN MCKAY: We are good to go, Director.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. The Bus Operations and Customer Service Committee will now come to
order. We are convened, as of 5:30 PM, Mountain Daylight time. I would respectfully ask that everyone
attending this meeting mute themselves unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held during
Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
possible on the Board's website. You can visit RTD-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for
the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn only adds to the confusion for the record and to the confusion
of the proceedings.
Directors and staff who are participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate they would
like to speak of pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6.
Please note that we will not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public
interested in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meeting.
For future meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal which is located at RTD.iqm2.com.
At RTD, safety is one of our core values. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. While
public health orders have relaxed, requirements for the use of face coverings in certain settings, please
don't let your guard down too soon.
It's a reminder that TSA, Transit Security Administration, has extended the federal mask requirements for
public transportation until September 13, 2021. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must
wear a face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation, to include airports and
aircraft, trains and train stations, bus stops and buses.

RTD requires that employees and customers continue to wear face coverings. And RTD is taking a
cautious approach to returning to pre-pandemic operating practices to ensure the safety of our employees
as well as our customers.
Transit continues to be an extremely safe way to travel. There have been no clusters of positive cases
linked to transit in the Denver metro area. So again, consider getting vaccinated if you have not done so
already. Wear your face covering in settings where one is required.
Practice reasonable physical distancing and continue your good hygiene practices. We will end this
pandemic sooner rather than later. Thank you all. Ms. McManus, would you call the role of the Directors
at this time?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIAN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
DIRECTOR COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore. Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair, Angie Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, one absent. Director Whitmore. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. McManus. At this time we have no recommended actions. So we are
going to proceed to a discussion on the APTA transit security model peer review recommendation. Mr.
Ford, Mr. Meader, will one of you open the conversation?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Actually, Madam Chair, if I may, it's Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO and
I will be shepherding this initiative tonight. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: That works for me. Have at it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right. Thank you, ma'am. So it's my pleasure to introduce to you members of
APTA staff. Being Polly Hansen, the Senior Director of Security of Risk and Emergency Management at
the American Public Transportation Association.

I will have her introduce the APTA peer review panelists. But to set the tone and provide context for all
those that are virtually assembled-- as you may recall, back in the January time-frame I shared with all of
you, in order for us to have an understanding of the direction in which we were going as we looked at
optimizing our safety and security models here at the organization, that I thought it would be prudent of us
to solicit assistance from our peers around the industry and assessing what we are currently doing and
putting forth recommendations to chart a path forward for all of us as relates to how we are doing our
policing model here at the agency.
And to that end, after reaching out to the American Public Transportation Association, a peer review
panel was convened. In conjunction with that endeavor, we also retained the consulting services of one of
the panelists who is a former Chief of Police for the Metropolitan Atlanta Area Rapid Transit Authority,
being Chief Wanda Dunham.
And so with that as a backdrop, this evening you will hear from the panelists, their findings and
recommendations as set forward in relationship to the scope of work we provided in regards to having this
peer review. So before I yield the virtual floor to Chief Hanson, I want to express my extreme gratitude to
the American Public Transportation Association, to our volunteers who all have day jobs working at other
transit agencies, trying to ensure their safety and security that took time out to engage in this endeavor
over the past few months.
So with that, I want to thank you all for your attention. And I will yield the virtual floor to Chief Hansen.
Thank you.
POLLY HANSON: Thank you, Madam General Manager and CEO Johnson and Director Williams. Once
again, my name is Polly Hanson and I am Senior Director of Security Risk and Emergency Management.
And next slide, please. I will introduce the peer review team, one of whom is having a problem getting in.
So DeeNaye, if you can advance to the next slide, that would be great.
DEENAYE WILLIAMS: Hi, Polly. My screen seems to have frozen or something. OK.
POLLY HANSON: OK, great. So as Ms. Johnson mentioned, we did have, as a part of the team, Wanda
Dunham, the Vice President of System, Safety, Security, and Emergency Management. And was the
Chief of Police retired from MARTA in Atlanta, Georgia.
Also on the team was Ashton Greene, the Executive Director, Deputy Chief, System Security and Law
Enforcement Division with Los Angeles metro, LA California. Ed Alvarez, who is our one panelist that's
having some difficulty getting in. He's near the end, so we hope he'll-- John is working really closely with
Ed to try to get him in.
But Ed is the Chief of Police from the Bay Area Rapid Transit Police in San Francisco, California. Ron
Pavlik, Chief of Police, Metro Transit Police, Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, otherwise
known as WMATA, Washington DC.

Next slide, please, DeeNaye. We also have Matt Walling from DART. He's the Deputy Chief of the Dallas
Area Rapid Transit in Dallas, Texas. I'll wait for DeeNaye to catch up. Myself and then DeeNaye Williams,
who is in the background there, running the slides, who is the Peer Review Administrator From APTA.
So let's go to the next slide, DeeNaye, if we can. And so once again, I know this isn't your first opportunity
being briefed by APTA. I know there was an audit review several weeks ago, a very similar format and
template.
So once again, we look at the scope of the review, the objectives, the methodology, which you're very
familiar with. And then the findings, observations, and recommendations. So next slide, please. So it
seems so long ago, in February, where we started the peer review, went through March.
We did have to re-finagle some interviews because you had the weather dynamic out there, which I think
was unheard of. And so the observations and recommendations that you're going to hear of are in
support of the gap analysis of the existing transit policing model.
And then of course, we provided reorganization recommendations. And this is in support of creating a reimagined public safety program. And we say public safety program because you're just not providing
security. You do have a mix of resources. And those are really positive things.
So instead of just referring to it as a security program, it really as a public safety program. Next slide,
please DeeNaye. And because you've been through this before, you know that this is something that
APTA does. We've done it for a really long time.
It's of benefit to the industry and APTA. At a CEO or General Manager's request, assembles a team of
really highly experienced respected source matter experts, transit professionals in the field. And they
provide their time, as Ms. Johnson said, to support the address of the scope that we just referred to.
So during this peer review, we did look through the documentation. We actually looked through
photographs and videos. We had a series of virtual briefings. 25 interviews were conducted with the
Board, many of you, the General Manager of Staff, union members, and agency stakeholders.
Next slide, please. So these are some of what we were asked to look at as a part of the scope. And so it
was to look at a model that includes using contract security as first responders. And the term, first
responders here, is meant as sending contract security personnel out on the same kind of calls that law
enforcement, armed local law enforcement or transit police law enforcement respond on.
Also to examine the use of the contracted armed security as a second crew member or fare inspector or
the conversion of that role or position to train conductors on board the RTD commuter rail. Next, slide
DeeNaye.

Also we looked at the review of the use of paid fare zones in your inter-modal transit facilities. We looked
at the examination of your data collection, the methodologies for data collection, the systems, and then
the use of your in-house data. Next slide, please.
These were additional areas that we looked at and did make recommendations for. Community policing
programs, diversity recruitment, diversity training, use of community service officers and cadets,
community engagement through social media, and then increased awareness with your stakeholders and
employees. Next slide.
We once again, did 25 interviews. This is a list of folks who were interviewed. Next slide. And there were
57 recommendations made. Next slide. And so we're going to begin the panel presentations and we're
going to start off with Chief Pavlik.
RON PAVLIK: Good evening, Polly. Can you hear me?
POLLY HANSON: Yes, I can. Thank you, sir.
RON PAVLIK: Thank you. Good evening, Ms. Williams and RTD Board members. As Polly said, my name
is Ron Pavlik and I served as the Chief of Police at WMATA. Next slide, please.
So right here, this is the commitment, RTD's commitment. It's right out of the code of conduct. And it
simply says, RTD is committed to offering safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and cost-effective
transportation to the district, to all constituents.
RTD strives to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and has equal access to transportation. This kind of
served as our whole model going forward as we did the peer review. Next slide, please
Current staffing-- I'm not going to read every bullet on all the slides that I have. But one part I did want to
pull out here is, when you look at the 350 part time secondary employment, these are the officers that
work part time from the various jurisdictions that surround RTD.
It's equivalent to 64 FTs that could be sworn, trained police officers working directly for RTD. Next slide,
please. So on each one of these slides, I'm just going to really highlight one or two bullets. And then
obviously, all these copies are made available to you all. But just want to highlight some important parts
from each one of the slides.
Here I want to talk about the preferences not to have private security guards acting as first responders.
What we heard here from the interviews is that the expectations of when you call for the police
department and you have a contract security guard show up, that individual may not be trained as highly
as a certified police officer, have the skill set, the tools, and the resources to de-escalate a situation,
manage a critical emergency incident.

The expectations the employees have of that security guard, or even your riders have of that security
guard may be one thing, but at the end of the day, they may only deliver another thing. So the level of
service that a contract security guard could bring versus a uniformed police officer, RTD transit police
officer, is quite different. Next slide.
We heard throughout, the feeling of the people, want to see or have a security presence. They want to
feel safe while using RTD. And quite frankly, some of the people said they didn't feel that way when using
the system. Some of the survey results, we saw they didn't feel safe using RTD.
But the perception is and the feeling is, they want to feel safe and secure when utilizing RTD services.
Next slide.
So I want to talk a little bit about the Denver Union Station. I had the privilege of coming out of Denver
several years ago with NAFTA, a trip out there. And I was quite impressed to say, that was your crown
jewel. And I say was because of pictures and videos that we saw the current status or state of affairs
going on at Union Station, appears to be a very large challenge with the homeless population or as Ms.
Hansen has referred to them as, non destination riders.
People loitering inside the station, manipulating the electrical outlets for their own personal use, having
sit-ins in the area where it's blocking the ingress or egress and safe passage for your paying riders or
people utilizing the services. So at DUS we heard a lot of comments about that station itself and some of
the challenges that are there and how people simply don't feel safe while they're in that station.
And what that really came about, when the police respond at Denver Union Station, who's in charge,
who's taking the lead on those type of situations. So we heard a lot of comments and you'll see that
throughout the actual report about Denver Union Station itself. Next slide.
We did have the privilege to speak to several RTD employees and I'll highlight the last bullet here. Where
speaking to some of the employees, they have concerns with their personal safety, their individual safety.
And they said that oftentimes, there's a large lag response time when they call for emergency services.
And they're not sure what type of service they're going to get, whether it be a contract security guard,
whether it be an RTD transit officer, or whether it be a contract police officer working part time, who is
going to respond.
They also said at the terminal station they felt their safety was in jeopardy sometimes on feeling safe and
secure while they're at a dead head or while they're sitting there at a terminal station. Next slide. This was
taken from the committee group that was formed some time ago.
I apologize, I don't have the date in front of me. But basically, the model that they were looking at, in the
three priorities. Next slide. We did hear a lot of positive things about the Ambassador Program and the
Pilot Program that you started.

But one thing we were interested in, is to see what that feedback would be, once COVID ends. So the
results are early. And it's kind of based on a pandemic mindset. Once the pandemic ends, ridership gets
restored, how would the Ambassador Program work as an opportunity to expand the program?
We heard a lot of positive things about the Ambassador Program. And then a lot about mental health and
training for RTD officers. We're seeing it here in the District of Columbia, where the mental health
community is jeopardized because some of those services that were available to those individuals,
because of COVID, they're not available.
So I can speak from personal experience here in DC, the mental health community is very challenged
right now. And you have a good program in place that helps deals with that. And look at how we can
expand that going forward. Next slide.
I want to talk about the real police, when there's a life safety issue here. And this goes back to the
contract security guards and or even in some situations where a local police officer who's on overtime
responding. It seems those individuals that are working part time may not have the aspiration or the
desire to perform at a higher level or do not necessarily have RTDs best interests at heart, because they
are there for a part time employment and they're not there as one of your own employees.
So we heard some of those challenges there. I think there's an opportunity here, and it's later in the
program, where you can market and brand the RTD transit police officer that you do have, and look for an
opportunity to better engage the community and we'll hear a little bit about that later.
Next slide. Here I just want to highlight the homeless issues. We heard that over and over again, where
there are certain lines in Union Station, for example, where the homeless population has really taken over
certain parts of the system to the point that employees are feeling unsafe and that the general public is
unsafe. And they may elect not to use RTD services and choose other transportation modes or options.
Next slide. Here we just want to talk a little bit about the phase approach or ways you can increase
staffing and security at RTD. We suggest that there needs to be an overarching security plan. I have a
one year, three year, five year strategic plan on how to improve overall security within Denver RTD.
Retaining more RTD officers and going back to one of the earlier slides, where if you reduce or eliminate
off duty police officers working part time and increase your own staffing levels, you'll have a better
commitment level from your personal police force, versus using other police officers. Next slide.
Here I'll talk a little bit about opportunities here, about the transit police division and marketing, branding
the police officers that you do have. Talking with the Chief and his staff members, it's clear that there's a
lot of passion for RTD, a lot of commitment to RTD. And he really believes in what RTD is doing.

And there's an opportunity to educate the public there more, talk about the security model, the proposed
security model, the recommendations that this report provides. Share that with the public and then show
the benefits of what this will bring to RTD riders and more importantly, your workforce.
And then an opportunity to form MOUs, MOAs with the proctor police agencies in the region, where you
can look at concurrent jurisdictions or multiple departments responding to a critical incident at RTD. Next
slide.
Here's where I talk about the community outreach and how you could do that. Speaking with some of your
employees that we did interview. Again, it goes back to the awareness and outreach. How can you
communicate to the RTD public that this is in the best interest of RTDs future, as far as protecting the
workforce, increased ridership, increased security, the perception of a secure system, in and around
anybody who chooses to use RTD transportation. Next slide.
So here we just want to highlight some of the data. Everybody uses data and numbers. There were some
challenges getting some of that data. But use the data that is available to make the argument and identify
the opportunities here to increase staffing levels, reduce the contract security officers, look at increasing
RTD transit police officers, and then the Ambassador Program.
A lot of good comments about that. We interviewed some of the clinicians that actually respond out with
RTD. I heard some very positive comments about that. And then more importantly, things were looking at
with models, as ridership comes back to some sense of normal after the pandemic eases, what is that
going to look like?
An opportunity here as ridership comes back, the pandemic kind of goes away, an opportunity to brand
RTD transit and look for these new security directives that we're proposing in the recommendations and
kind of turn it on all at the same time. Next slide.
So here, this is my last slide. But I just want to confirm, decreasing the number of transit security officers,
contract security, and increasing the sworn officers within the RTD will improve the quality of service that
your employees will receive improve the quality of service that your rider will receive and will improve the
overall security posture for RTD and buses and trains. And that's my last slide, Ms. Hanson.
POLLY HANSON: Thanks, Ron. And now we're going to hear from Ashton Greene, from LA Metro.
Ashton, you're on mute.
ASHTON GREENE: Look at that. I prepared for that not to happen and it actually happened. So thank
you for your patience. Good day, everyone.
So you're probably going to hear some recurring themes related to the presentation. We're going to echo
some common best practices that you'll see throughout the transit industry. Beginning, for example, with
the on contract security acting as law enforcement.

What we observed is the deployment of contract security officers driven by the contract where you have
industry standards, where that's a needs based solution. So we observed an opportunity there for
improving, just the scope of work for contract services. And then the second bullet there highlights
contract security currently received only three weeks of general training from the contractor.
It may invite some instability, in terms of having transit related training levels of services. So there's an
opportunity there to revisit that. Training is obviously reflective of accountability and agency liability. So a
focal point for a scope of work that includes enhanced training, transit specific. Definitely an opportunity
for improvement in that area that we observed, based on our discussions and our interviews. Next slide.
Somewhat connected to that training experience, the on contract security acting as law enforcement, is
the turnover rate. As you can see here highlighted, it fluctuated from 40% to 60% from March of 2019 to
September of 2020. A direct impact on the customer experience, of course.
The national average turnover rate for contract security is 40%. And so without having information from
the contractor as to why those departures, what's occurring, it does not inform the management
opportunity to make improvements so that staff can be retained, because that increases a culture of
knowledge, if you will, that benefits the customer experience.
So that continuity of leadership, if you will, is certainly a missed opportunity with the high turnover rate.
Next slide. But while the cost of security may remain less than the cost of sworn police, the quality of
service may be dissimilar.
No doubt about it, definitely shouldn't be a conflation, if you will, of the security services with law
enforcement services. This results, as you see here in the slide, from extensive training that sworn police
officers receive that are not being received by contract security. And as RTD employees, they are
experiencing, if you will, a gap in services that the community would expect.
So as transit sworn police officers get an opportunity to align their values, perform according to the
Agency standards and principles and that promotes a better customer experience, reinforces them as
agents of the agency, more of a career path. Contract security does not necessarily have the same
dedication, if you will.
So there are definitely benefits that you will find in the transit agency between the value of transit police
versus the value of security. So that definitely is a conflation point that needs to be corrected. Next slide.
So the panel recommends that the staffing study be completed to provide RTD with a short and long term
plan for deployment of the appropriate number of transit police versus contract security officers. That's a
balanced study. It's a needs based, evidence based study.
It is a undertaking that will have years of value. It will paint a 10 year, five year plan. I think it was
mentioned earlier, that kind of strategy helps to support, basically, communicating with the public as to

why you have a deployment the way you have it, what the benefits are of that balancing between policing
staff and contract security staff.
And it helps to sort of chart cost and expenses for those services for years to come. So it's a
recommendation that the panel strongly makes to help advance the agenda for security and public safety
for RTD. Next slide. Armed contract as second crew members, fare inspectors or conversion of that to
train conductors on board RTD commuter rail.
So the issue here is response time. The second bullet highlights that if ambassadors are permanently
converted to a second crew member, that conductor role, the panel recommends the deployment of
security, RTD or off duty law enforcement personnel to be evaluated. So that response time to security
incidents are maintained.
So a hard shift, if you will, to contract security second crew member can have a direct impact on the level
of response services to those lines. And so that certainly has to be an assessment and evaluation. What
could be used is a side by side analysis or an assessment. Or you could use training and exercises as a
tool to evaluate how that will be impacted if you do that hard switch or cut over.
So an evaluation of the second crew member is definitely part of a recommendation, as it will have a
direct impact on prevention of crime and the perception of safety by the public. So that evaluation is also
strongly recommended. Next slide.
So the panel ultimately recommends the deployment of RTD transit police officers, off duty law
enforcement of TSOs, at the end of rail lines to assist with clearing of trains before they go into the tail
track. This is a response to community concerns, by operations staff, who reported passengers are not
clearing the trains at the end of the run. And it creates a safety issue for training operators.
It also has a real negative issue in terms of customer perceptions. It is also, interestingly enough, a best
practice for end of the line clearing, for offloading. It's good for maintenance. In addition to providing some
Homeland Security value of clearing the train of unwanted-- whether it's of packages or persons that need
to be provided assistance, that's a great opportunity for providing that attention, if you will, to those
security concerns.
The panel recommends a deployment, a direct dedicated employment of transit police officers, as you
can see, off duty TSOs at the end of rail lines as a common daily practice. And that's the end of my initial
slides.
POLLY HANSON: Thanks Ashton. Now we're going to turn it over to Matt Walling, who is the Deputy
Chief from the Dallas Area Rapid Transit Police.
MATT WALLING: Good evening. It's an honor to have the opportunity to address you today. My portion of
the presentation focuses on the use of paid fare zones and the Denver Union Station. Next slide, please.

The panel recommends the use of paid fare zones at RTD transit facilities to address the security issues
that are being encountered. In order to do this, RTD will need to develop the necessary ordinances,
policies, and procedures. Next slide.
Once the authority to create paid fare zones is in place, the panel recommends that RTD consider
conducting a pilot program of paid fare zones at select facilities to gauge its effectiveness. And based on
the results, consider expanding it to other problematic stations throughout the system.
The panel recognizes the importance of gaining the support of the ridership and the community and
suggests that the paid fare system concept and goals should be presented to stakeholders, along with
implementing a media plan to educate the public on the changes. Next slide, please.
The renovation and modernization of Union Station is a textbook example of a successful transit oriented
development. However, as a result of the increase in homelessness and challenges created by the
pandemic, RTD is facing many challenges at the facility. Next slide.
In preparation for the peer review, RTD provided background information for the panel, relevant to Denver
Union Station. Included in that was the Allied Universal Security, that they are primarily responsible for
the site security and that Denver police are called as needed.
Also noted was that the RTD code of conduct was implemented in 2016 to address certain issues that
were being encountered there. Next slide. In 2019, a Homeless Task Force was created and the transit
police division presented a plan to create a paid fare zone.
However, as a result of the pandemic, it has not been implemented. And also in 2020, changes were
made to the code of conduct which allowed individuals to lie down in transit facilities and also use outlets
to charge personal electronic devices. Both of these changes had negative effects on the ability to police
Denver Union Station. Next slide.
The panel also learned that RTD transit police have not been granted the ability to make arrests or file
criminal cases within the city of Denver and Denver County. As well, Greyhound bus lines have been
granted access to the gates in Union Station bus facility.
And in January of this year, RTD General Manager Debra Johnson modified facility rules at DUS,
prohibiting eating unless medically necessary, lying or sitting on the floor, and limiting the number of
individuals in restrooms. Next slide.
From the interviews conducted with stakeholders, including Denver police, it's the panel's understanding
that RTD transit police officers were prohibited by Denver officials from taking law enforcement actions,
including making arrests and issuing citations within Denver.

This prohibition appears to be inconsistent with the statutory authority granted to RTD transit police
officers by the state. And under the current situation, Denver police must be dispatched to Union Station,
or for that matter, any incident location in Denver, where police enforcement is needed.
This is required, even when RTD transit police are on scene. Next slide. During interviews the panel
conducted, we heard many complaints regarding Union Station. Next slide. The panel was also made
aware that RTD has been cited for health violations at Union Station as a result of the conditions that
existed there at the time.
Next slide. Both public health violations were based on health officials observations of the failure to wear
masks and social distancing when required. Next slide. The following pictures depict the conditions that
were observed at the time the panel was conducting its review.
Next slide. Next slide. Next slide. Next slide, please.
It's the panel's recommendation that RTD representatives continue efforts initiated by the CEO to develop
solutions to resolve the public health, customer service and crime concerns at Union Station. Is also the
panel's recommendation that RTD collaborate with the city of Denver and Denver County officials to
resolve the apparent jurisdictional issues that prohibit RTD transit police officers from taking direct law
enforcement action within Denver.
Once the jurisdictional issues are resolved, it's the panel's recommendation that RTD transit police
consider increasing its presence at Union Station. Also Union Station bus and train areas should be
included in the paid fare zone pilot program when it is launched. And that's the end of my presentation.
Thank you.
POLLY HANSON: Thanks, Matt. Now we're going to turn it back over to Ashton to talk about data and
data systems.
ASHTON GREENE: Yes. So earlier, I talked about deployment and the ability to know where you're
putting staff. Well that is rooted in data collection. So the panel recommends that RTD consider acquiring
a crime analysts software program and a crime analyst to gather data needed to make resource
deployment decisions and provide crime analysis trends, keep employees, community leaders, Board
members and customers informed of those crime trends and patterns, and to share data with local
jurisdictions, law enforcement partners, so collaborative efforts can be undertaken and criminal
intelligence shared.
And that is part of a good foundation for a security ecosystem that is rooted in evidence based solutions.
Next slide. The panel recommends-- I'm sorry. With the information collected, RTD transit police are
encouraged to analyze relevant data sets using performance management systems such as the
CompStat model commonly used in other transit systems, in order to reduce crime and align security
efforts with the RTD public safety goals.

Data related to criminal offenses, incidents, calls for service, use of force, arrests, contacts, and arrest
demographics and complaints, even suspicious packages. All those things should be gathered and
shared with the RTD Board, employees, customers, and community stakeholders, to create awareness
and highlight crime prevention efforts and encourage trust, transparency, and accountability.
So everyone knowing the crime stats and the crime picture will be able to see the justification for the
resources being applied to address those concerns and those patterns. Next slide. Sort of a
complementary. The RTD Safety and Security Survey, hearing from the public.
The panel recommends that RTD analyze the results from the RTD Safety and Security Survey to inform
decisions on the Public Safety Program. That includes an evaluation of how stakeholders view that
program, determine whether the program is in line with RTD security objectives, establish priorities, set
key performance indicators and timelines to ensure those priorities are achieved, and to appraise
employee training.
A great practice. And here at Metro, we've actually established a Public Safety Advisory Committee that's
going to be leading efforts, just as this. So it's highly recommended by the panel. That's the end of my
slide.
POLLY HANSON: Thank you, Ashton. Now we're going to hear from retired Chief of Police and Vice
President of Safety and Security and Emergency Management from MARTA, in Atlanta, Georgia. Wanda
Dunham.
WANDA DUNHAM: Thank you, Polly. Just a minute, before I go into the community policing, I just want to
take some consultant privilege and thank everybody. I know I talk to everyone and Board members and
thank you for your time. We talked to you several times and played phone tag.
But thank you for everybody calling me back and thank you for being very candid. So we could include,
and some of you should probably see some of your comments, in this presentation. So I just want to
thank you for that. And thank you, Ms. Johnson, for bringing me in.
So community policing. Community policing is a strategy that focuses on building trust in citizens and law
enforcement, between citizens and law enforcement, through mutual understanding and collaboration.
And if we ever needed that before, we need it now.
So it is very important that every law enforcement agency and every government agency, especially
public transit, try to reach out and understand our public and understand the community. And to figure out
the problems and how we can work together and build trust and transparency between the transit agency,
the law enforcement agency, and the community.

So it is very important and transit plays a really major role in that. Many transit police agencies hold
community based events. And a lot of people will say, well transit agencies don't have a real true
community. But that's not true. We go through so many different communities that we touch and so we
have a greater responsibility.
And we have a greater opportunity to touch and focus on more transit community policing than other
agencies. And so we don't have to go far. There were so many transit agencies that they're doing great
things. Back to school drives, toy drives, food drives, bicycle safety days, national night out on crime
events.
Of course, if we transition into having more staff, because the staff currently, RTD, they're limited. And so
they can only do so much. But I think we need to definitely have a plan for community policing because it
really will pay off. Next. Thank you.
The panel encourages the RTD transit police division to explore opportunities to participate in community
activities and attend community events. I say, if they don't have community events, then create
community events. You host something.
You don't have to just look-- but it's always good to collaborate. But if they're not having something and
there's a need that needs to be met, then you host it. That's fine. So RTD can be the leader and be a host
of something that's going to impact the community.
RTD transit police leadership should leverage an RTD Board Committee and it's not a Board Committee,
but a committee that reports to the Board, that is inclusive, diverse, and represents the community. To
serve in a Public Safety Advisory role.
WMATA, Chief Pavlik, they just started one. So there's plenty of benchmarks out there. And it's up to you,
as the RTD leadership, as to how much engagement you want for the oversight committee. Or just when
you start a new program, do you want the committee to come before-- you want the police to come before
that committee to just get feedback and to talk about it before we go out with the new changes.
And so it can be what you want it to be, but a lot of people are doing community oversight. And so that's
one thing that we can consider. Next.
So the panel recommends that RTD develop a long range internal and external marketing campaign
focused on increasing the awareness of the public safety program. A lot of people did not know that RTD
had police. Every time, when I talked to community leaders, they reference-- every time I talked about
security-- they referenced Allied Universal.
They didn't really know RTD had a sworn police force. Albeit small, they are sworn. And so they need a
program to tell their story. They need to tell the good things that RTD police are doing. So they need to
increase awareness.

RTD transit police leadership review the community policing training provided to RTD police officers. The
off duty law enforcement officers and TSO. So that's really important because there's a lot of community
policing that internal RTD police officers receive.
They also receive CIT training, Crisis Intervention Training. According to Chief Grado, they're already
doing that. But we're not sure, are the TSOs receiving that same training? Because you have so many
different factions of law enforcement, we don't know if the training is consistent. And then, is it transit
specific customer service training?
And so we need to look at the training, decide what that training will be, and make sure it's consistent
across all spectrums. Next. The panel suggests that RTD continue to partner with mental health clinicians
and social service providers.
I know you had a grant. You had you went from one to four, now. So you have four. That's always a good
thing. Some of you suggested the Denver STAR program. We researched that and that's something
maybe we can collaborate and partner with them on.
There's other programs out there. The CAHOOTS program. And so there's a lot of different programs that
we can look at, to see if clinicians can be called before law enforcement is called. So there's a lot of
opportunities there and a lot of people are starting new programs that maybe we can tap into.
So you don't have to do it on your own. There are some benchmarks that we can look at. RTD transit
police expand efforts to provide education on conduct prohibited by the RTD code of conduct to ensure
that customers, employees, and stakeholders are aware of the requirements.
So we've had some changes in the code of conduct. And we just want to make sure that people have
received that latest education on what's expected. So a lot of times, people will do what you ask them to
do, if they know what's expected.
And so we want to make sure to leverage that and make sure they don't have an excuse to say, they
were not aware what they could do on RTDs property. Next. So the panel suggests that RTD continues
its social media outreach. I think you should do more.
But I know that you're limited. But you have to do more. Not just in social media, but there's other
outreach efforts that you can do as well. And so we need to make sure that we're hitting every point of
how we can communicate to the public.
We don't have the luxury any longer to communicate to people the way we want to communicate to them.
We have to communicate to them the way they want to be communicating. And that's where we kind of
missed the boat. We were like, we've always done XYZ, but who are we including? Are we getting in
touch with the right people?

And so you have to make sure that we're hitting on all cylinders and making sure that the people that we
want to communicate with actually are getting those messages that we want them to get. The panel
recommends that RTD evaluate the current marketing strategy regarding to RTD Public Safety Program
and including on social media mediums, along with the social media outreach to evaluate the message
and engage with everyone in the community.
Next. So it's starting. Community engagement and social media to increase awareness. General Manager
Debra Johnson, she is starting the People Who Move People campaign. Which is great. It's an
awareness campaign but it's also an introduction of the employees, the front line employees, who are
doing those tasks every day.
She's making them more real. She's making it realistic. And so people are like, oh yeah, RTD has this
type of employee and that kind of employee. That's a great start. it's a great foundation. And I'm sure
she's going to continue with it. But this is a great foundation for just telling those unique stories and
making the employees have a fan base.
So when people are on RTD-- OK, well, I know that they have this person and that person, and so it
makes it personal. Next. So diversity recruitment. Next. This is an interesting topic.
So we looked at the demographics of Denver, the city of Denver and County. And so based on the
census, the census will tell a story about how many people are available to work by demographic. And so
there's some opportunities to try to recruit and be more diverse.
And so the numbers speak for themselves. But there are some opportunities that RTD has to be diverse,
trying to be more diverse, and try to be more representative of the citizens and the customers that you
serve. Next.
To increase the size of an available diverse employee pool, the panel recommends that current hiring
policies for RTD transit police be examined with consideration of the benefits of hiring an uncertified and
diverse individual. All that means is that basically the current hiring model, you hire certified officers only.
And currently you don't put officers-- you don't send them through the Police Academy.
And sometimes you can find some diamonds in the rough. They're uncertified. Send them through the
Academy. You can always have them sign a service agreement. If they leave before a certain time, or
they don't pass the Police Academy, then they can pay you an unused portion back.
So there are different options that you can use. But I think you're missing a really big segment of the
population for just hiring certified officers. In its efforts to diversify its employment pool, the panel
recommends that RTD develop appropriate screening selection tests and criteria to recruit those best
suited for transition to RTD police officers from the existing TSO contract workforce.

Now speaking to-- I know the interviews that I did, some of you were kind of mixed on the job that Allied
Universal, the employees. So some said that Allied Universal has some very professional employees.
And so they may be interested in coming over full time.
They go through the screening process and you pick the best of the best. But there may be some
opportunity because they are already familiar with your system, to transition some of the Allied Universal
workforce over to full time RTD staff. Next.
The panel suggests that RTD develop and implement strategies and solutions to advance diversity
recruitment and hiring. We talked about that. The panel highlights the 30-by-30 initiative, developed by a
coalition of police leaders. And basically, 30-by-30 is saying, currently females make up only 13% of law
enforcement.
And so by the year 2030, there's an initiative to have 30% of females, of women, in law enforcement. And
so we can do something like that and try to set a goal for diversity for RTD. Next.
RTD should consider partnerships with community and industry groups, such as the NAACP, the Urban
League, the COMTO, which is a Conference of Minority Transportation Officials, WTS, Latinos in Transit.
There's so many. As well as professional organizations that advocate for Asian, Native American,
Hispanic, and Latino communities, as resources to seek talented and diverse potential employees.
So those are great resources. But because you guys all represent different districts, there may be
opportunities within your districts for recruitment as well. And so maybe, as Board Members, hosting an
event in your district so that we can have diversity-- we can have recruitment fairs and see if there's
anyone in those districts that are interested in, not just law enforcement, but RTD jobs in general. Next.
The great thing about diversity is you have an opportunity-- which I did not know and I found this out from
one of the focus groups, and it was one of the employees that told me about this-- that Colorado has six
military bases that can be used as a pipeline for RTD public safety programs. That is gold.
The military hires could be required to go to the Police Academy with the prospect that the cost of the
Academy could be offset by the military benefits. I spoke to Chief Grado. Carson City is already doing
this. They just had their first recruitment there with the military and they had 2,400 people to show up.
So I don't think that we'll have a problem. We have six military bases. And we did a study many years ago
at MARTA to see what was the best type of employee for transit agencies. And military was the number
one best, would make the best transit police officer, was people coming from the military.
They make the best. Military-- because they're used to standing watch and they're used to taking orders.
So it was a win-win. So you have six military bases and I think you should leverage that. Next.
POLLY HANSON: Thank you, Wanda. And now we're going to introduce—
WANDA DUNHAM: OK. That's me. Thank you.

POLLY HANSON: Yep. Thank you. And so now we're going to introduce Ed Alvarez, who's the Chief of
the Bay Area Rapid Transit Police Department in the Bay Area of San Francisco, California. Welcome,
Ed. Thanks.
ED ALVAREZ: Thank you. I just want to make sure you can hear me.
POLLY HANSON: Loud and clear.
ED ALVAREZ: All right. Thank you. So good afternoon. Again, my name is Ed Alvarez. I am the Chief of
Police here at our police department in San Francisco. So I'm going to touch on the communications
center and some of the stuff that we learned by talking to your staff. Next slide.
So by talking to your staff, we realized that there was only 26 active dispatchers that were assigned to
RTD. And looking at the responsibilities, they have quite a few things that they do, as I will allude to here
in the next slide or two, would require more staffing.
They are responsible for the hot-lines, the text messaging, and the app that takes in reports, to an
average of about 53,000 annual reports collectively, from all the things that they do. So here at BART we
also have a similar transit watch app that we call BARTWATCH.
And we push that out to provide to our riders so that they can report non-emergency calls. And I think
that's, right now, currently it looks like a missed opportunity for you. In the sense that, at the time, there
was about 30,000 downloads of your app for your riders.
And we did a very robust campaign here at BART and we got it up, pretty close, to 100,000 downloads,
just by putting out advertisement on your train cars, your buses, things like that. So I think that's a good
opportunity for you moving forward to get that information out there, that the app is available, so that you
can get your riders to download it and use it as a resource for them. Next slide.
So the panel recommends that you conduct a workload analysis for both your dispatchers and your
communications center management. So right now on staff, you have one to two dispatchers currently on
duty with a Manager. And prior to them going on duty, which was interesting to hear, is that they have to
log on to 16 different programs at the start of their shift. Which is a lot to ask, especially when you have
that small of a staff.
So they're spending a lot of time just to even go onto their console and prepare themselves for the start of
their shift. So the recommendation is that the work analysis is done at both levels so that you could see
how you could be more efficient.
The panel also is recommending that the current staff get linked to APCO and CALEA, which are
standards as resource for the communications center for best practices and training requirements, so that
you do get the best staff and the best dispatchers into your centers. Next slide.

And the panel suggests also that the RTD perform a workflow analysis. And what this is going to help do,
it's going to help with a better and faster response for calls for service for both your bus and your rail
employees. So that they can get the calls through the operations dispatch center, to the police
communications center a lot faster.
So the panel's recommending that you examine the agreement that requires a separate dispatch center
for the commuter rail to determine if the opportunity is there. So it would make more sense to merge both
the dispatch center into one unified communications center so you get the optimal response for both rail
and police. So you don't have the middle person having to take those calls for service and then pass it on
to another center. So that's the end of my presentation. Thank you.
POLLY HANSON: Thanks, Ed. And so in conclusion, we hope that you found the recommendations as
valuable as they are intended, to assist in improving or helping RTD enhance the security model and
inform enhancements to your public safety program.
You have the full report. And as Wanda said, we really do want to thank the support and assistance of the
staff and it was a pleasure, as Wanda indicated, to meet many of you Board members and your
employees. And so the panel now-- and you can go to the last slide, or no slide at all, DeeNay-- the panel
is happy to answer any questions that you may have.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a question, please raise your virtual hand. I see
Director Rosenthal has his hand up. Director Dishell, I will come to you next. Paul, you're muted.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: My apologies. Thank you, Madam Chair. That was quite an extensive process that I
know that the analysts went through. And it was great to chat with Ms. Dunham. I really enjoyed our
conversation. And I'm glad to see so much input from the directors and others in this report.
Obviously, we could go all night on a very long report with lots of questions. But I'm just going to focus on
a couple of things. One was the turnover rate on the contracted security. And what I wanted to see, would
like to hear about, is the comparison with the sworn RTD officers and what is the turnover rate there, and
do a comparison between the two.
POLLY HANSON: And I'll go ahead and respond. It was never highlighted as an issue. And certainly, Mr.
Meader is here, or Chief Grado could address that. But the turnover rate of the RTD officers was not
mentioned as an issue. It was with the security guards.
And as I think was alluded to when that was discussed by Ashton Greene, you're getting folks in and they
just don't get acclimated to your system. They don't understand transit. They don't understand your
employees and they don't understand your customers.

And so there were times when yours was much better than the national average and whatever it is that
occurred and once again, Allied Universal in their exit briefings would have to share that information with
you, but something occurred. And I even tried to analyze it myself, to see if it was the pandemic, to see if
it was the aftermath of Mr Floyd's death and it just didn't seem to correlate.
I don't know if any of the other panelists have any thoughts. And Wanda, you look like you want to say
something.
WANDA DUNHAM: I was going to say, Bob is on, the Chief. So maybe he could shed some light on that,
Bob.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, if I could address, just really quickly, to the point that Chief
Hanson-- and I call her Chief Hanson because we worked together and she was the Chief when we were
colleagues. So I just wanted to clarify, during the initial request made to APTA, as she indicated, that was
not within the scope.
But we surely could ascertain what the turnover rate is by doing our own analysis. So I just wanted to
qualify that and reiterate the point that was made. That was not within the purview of this APTA peer
review panel. Thank you. And Chief Grado, if you would like to add something at this juncture, I don't see
you on my screen but I know you're here.
KATE WILLIAMS: If you're talking, we don't hear you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I was just letting her finish. Thanks. So another question is, I noticed quite a bit of
focus on Denver Union Station. And I'm wondering, in terms of where the issues arise and where many of
the complaints of phone calls arise, is this mostly inside the City and County of Denver, where we find a
lot of issues we're seeing?
Is it half? Is it 2/3? Where are so many of these issues arising? And does that sort of lend itself to where-and I think I saw some of the recommendations for building a particularly closer relationship with the city
of Denver, with Denver Police Department and others within the city of Denver.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, address Director Rosenthal's question. Keeping in mind that
this was also part of the scope, recognizing that Denver Union Station is one of the major inter-modal
hubs that we have within the RTD Transit Network. It was specific in reference to focusing on that area,
due to the fact that coming into this organization I had seen firsthand that we had a myriad of different
issues.
Quite naturally, transit is the fabric that's interwoven into a community. And it's a collective effort. And so
in reference to mitigating such issues, we have been working in partnership with a myriad of different
entities and have convened a task force that is comprised of not only the City and County of Denver, the
mayor's office, the Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, the Denver City Attorney's Office,

Public Safety, Denver Homeless Outreach Office, Denver Department of Public Health and the
Environment.
So I just want to qualify that all, as we go forward, recognizing that some of this, basically, was giving us
the ability to have a laser like focus on what we need to address collectively. And a lot of these things are
ongoing, recognizing that we convened this panel back in January.
So that's the nature of it. And getting to your question about where the primary focus is, recognizing that
in the course of the pandemic, people that are unhoused or seeking shelter, they've been using the
underground bus concourse, as you saw displayed in reference to the photographs that was showcased.
In addition, like the Great Train Hall, and you have people milling about because they can seek some
refuge in reference to having some shelter.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And for my final question, if I may, Madam Chair. So in terms of the ETA
for, I guess, our process here, would the General Manager be reviewing these recommendations and
then putting a timeline on them and saying these are the ones that we'd like to adopt now or in the near
future or in the distant future or-- what is the process for reviewing these recommendations? And I'm sure
that they would be presented to the Board as well for our input.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may address Director Rosenthal. The course of action, first and
foremost, was to ensure that you all received these recommendations. At the conclusion of such, as I
indicated, we have retained the services of Chief Dunham to work in conjunction with us.
We'll be convening a meeting in short order, in which I will be participating, along with Chief Dunham, in
conjunction with Mr. Mike Meader, who serves as our Chief Safety Officer, as well as Chief Grado.
Basically, going through that, establishing a timeline is very analogous as to what we're doing currently
with the internal audit function as well.
We are going to have a very forward facing process, recognizing that we have leveraged our employees,
doing focus groups, of which Ms. Dunham had conducted, working with our partnership with the
Amalgamated Transit Union. And then quite naturally, engaging with the community. Because it's
paramount, as we see, that we have our community, as well as our customers that have been impacted.
And more so as we leverage this, I would say, inter-agency working group that we have convened, as
well as our private partners that basically have auspices over the residential high rises.
They too will be at the table. And we will map out a plan going forward. And then I would like to, for
certain, engage Director Lewis, who did join me with the initial kick off of APTA with her capacity as being
the Chair of the ad hoc safety committee. So I trust that answers your question. And we will get back to
you in a more fine line timeline going forward.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And good job, everybody.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I believe that Director Dishell was next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to the APTA team for putting this together. It
was really quite amazing. I actually happen to disagree with Director Rosenthal. I think most of these are
actually management decisions, not Board decisions.
While I look forward to receiving updates on a lot of the security items laid out, how and where and why
we decide to do or predict to be, fall squarely within management and not necessarily a Board policy
decision. So trying to keep in the vein of policy, I do have a couple of questions.
One is, for those who are in the 30-by-30 initiative or otherwise, how is their retention? Not just their
recruitment?
POLLY HANSON: That's a huge issue of mentoring. And I think you find that with your own bus
operators. So mentoring is a huge component of-- once you get somebody on board, keeping them. And I
do reference bus operators because that's an issue with them as well.
And I would just defer to Ms. Johnson. But mentoring, from my experience, law enforcement-- and I am
over 30 years in transit as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Chief Hanson and Director Dishell. Chief Hanson is spot on in
relationship of looking at, not only recruitment-- and I spoke to this on Saturday when I talked to retention
going forward. How we treat employees, how we ensure that we enable their success. So as we look at
that going forward, there is a component whereby we have been engaged in discussions with the
assistance of our human resources, Senior Manager of Human Resources, as well as Michael Ford and
his staff, as well as ATU, as we look at having a mentorship program, when you bring somebody into the
organization.
These are all in very preliminary stages and we need to do more refinement. Hence, when I was talking
about looking at the data that we've collected from exit interviews so we can make informed decisions
about how we develop retention strategies. So that goes hand in hand when you look at the myriad of
different job classifications, of which we have, within the Regional Transportation District.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And my other question is-- and this actually might be more for General Counsel
or for General Manager, which is a lack of exit interview seems to be a persistent problem within this
agency. Whether it was prior to General Manager Johnson's coming on or now with our contracted
services here.
If I were to guess, we probably also don't do exit interviews with others who we contract with. Are we
allowed to, as a Board, require that contractors conduct exit interviews and share that data with us?
Because this seems to be a recurring theme. And it would be great as a Board if we could be firm on that.

MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Yes, Director Dishell, it would
be an option. RTD could include that in a contractual position, to require exit interviews. Of course, we
don't currently have that. I'll just refer back to General Manager and CEO Johnson, if she wants to add
anything.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, General Counsel Snyder. And basically, this is an issue that I
have discussed. Because when we engage in a contractual agreement, we can specify the terms and
conditions relative to that. As we all know, basically these entities are representing the interests of RTD.
So in relationship to that, I am of the firm belief that we can Institute that going forward. And of course, I
would defer to General Counsel, in reference to the specifics as to that. But quite naturally, these are
individuals representing our interests. And so basically, as we go forward, that is something that we are
examining quite naturally. Thank you for your question.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Looks like maybe we'll have a resolution tonight. If anyone wants to join me in
that, you know where to find me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Dishell. I did see Director Davidson next. But your hand is down,
so he obviously got his question answered. OK. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you, Chair. And again, thank you to the group who has evaluated
Denver security issues. It was a remarkable piece of work and I really appreciate all the references to
collaboration and community outreach and robust engagement.
I think that's terrific. That said, issues dealing with homelessness and the unhoused do not have any
relationship to jurisdictional lines. I understand the core of the problem is in Denver and particularly Union
Station.
But RTD does contribute to the traveling of the unhoused throughout the metro area. And that it is an
issue that affects every single jurisdiction. In fact, I have had contacts from one locality, not my home
town, that people are living in bus shelters.
Which is really sad that they're living in bus shelters, but it's also sad that the rest of the traveling public
can't use that. And is there-- I didn't recognize the names of any suburban police Chiefs or officers as
interviewees. Is that a later outreach?
POLLY HANSON: We actually did speak to the Manager of the off duty contract for Aurora and a very
strong program there. And I also want to be very complimentary, General Manager and CEO, to say as

an outcome of this peer review, your staff gathered with other transit agencies that they had met through
peer reviews, this one and others, and have created an informal group looking at the use of crisis
intervention mental health professionals and trying to come up with some key performance indicators,
sharing best practices.
And I was invited to participate in one of their calls. So I was just really impressed, how after this peer
review occurred, your staff had met other transit officials and they've coordinated this group. And I think
that's really admirable and is going to get to some of the explanations and discussions about what are
some of the great partnerships.
What are some of the best practices that other agencies are seeing? And for people that are further along
with their mental health professionals, how are those programs working and how are they evaluating
them?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. The best practices sharing is really great to hear. And I hope in the
future, they will be shared with other localities that are also along our rail and bus lines. So this is a great
start. And I look forward to our talking about these issues as a Board.
I see them as inextricably mixed between Board policy and management issues. Thank you, again.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. I did see Director Catlin's hand up. But I do not see it any
longer. Director Catlin, are you-- you're good to go. OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I want to begin by saying a tremendous thanks to
the APTA team. A very impressive collection of talented and experienced individuals who have given us
not only great insights, but also the support to do what I know Assistant General Manager Meader and
Chief Grado have been working on for a long time and what General Manager CEO Johnson has been
working on in her seven months or so with us.
A few questions. First, concerning the two dispatch centers, one for bus and light rail and one for
commuter rail. As I understand it, that's actually driven by our agreement with Denver Transit operators
for the operation of the commuter rail. But of course now that we have the N Line functioning, which we
are providing, is there some reasonable sense that we will be able-- and I guess is to General Manager-we'll be able to consolidate that into one communications dispatch center?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much Director Tisdale, for your question. And there is a myriad of
things that we're working on. And just most recently, about three weeks ago, have convened the team.
When I say the team, it's with Mr. Ford's operation as well as Mr. Meader's, as we look at where we need
to draw a line in the sand and look at what we're doing on the N line, in reference to optimizing in-house
services as we go forward.
So I'm not at a place to address your question at this juncture. As I stated before, as we make informed
decisions and look at what's before us and with input from our consultant as well, we will be shepherding

those initiatives and come back and put forward recommendations for the betterment of the organization,
the communities that we serve.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that. And that actually triggers a comment I was going to make
later, that I believe that Director Dishell is absolutely correct in saying that most of these
recommendations that are made are in fact management decisions, with the right of the Board to
comment, but not the right of the Board to usurp a management decision.
The issues may be intertwined between management and governance. But the vast majority of these
appear to be management recommendations. Concerning the City and County of Denver and its lack of
cooperation with allowing our sworn officers to take anyone into custody, I'm wondering-- apparently we
have agreement with other jurisdictions that our sworn officers can do that.
Do we have a sense that City and County of Denver is prepared to work with us collaboratively and
ultimately, to cooperate in having our sworn officers be able to have that ability?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Tisdale, most definitely. We have made major strides. And I would like to
actually have General Counsel Snyder speak to that more carefully. Because there are some nuances, in
reference to understanding exactly what the status is. So General Counsel Snyder, if you would please.
Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, General Manager. Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Tisdale, yes,
I think RTDs 20 sworn transit police officers are statutorily designated as police officers. They are certified
by the state of Colorado's POST board. And they are authorized to enforce state law, including making
arrests.
So it's not really a legal issue. It's more of a coordination issue. I've had conversations with the Denver
City attorney about some options. I have not reached out to the Denver District Attorney yet. We're still
working through some options with the General Manager Chief Grado.
But I think that there's some opportunity there for sure.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. That's good to hear, that is being followed up on because I think it's a very
important discussion point for management to pursue. Next, I was struck by Chief Pavlik's comment
regarding Denver Union Station and the change since we hosted Revolution back in 2018 and had
everyone from APTA come to Denver.
And I appreciated the photographs that he provided because I don't know that we've actually seen that
compiled in one place before. I know that each of us individually has gone out to Union Station from time
to time to see what the situation is on the ground, as it were. But I appreciated that.

As I understand it, my next comment, it is a question. The General Manager, as I understand it, did
amend the code of conduct regarding Denver Union Station in particular, as to the point of lying on the
floor. Which was inserted at the insistence of some very vocal members of the ad hoc committee.
And I'm wondering, do we have any reaction from the ad hoc committee, relative to this change
concerning the situation in Denver Union Station?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Tisdale, if I may put a qualifier on that. The reason why that was initiated by
me was due to the fact that we received a violation of the public health order, in reference to being in a
pandemic. And so in doing so in reference to people sort of co-habitating and being in close proximity,
that was to maintain the safety and welfare of not only our employees, but those that were utilizing
Denver Union Station.
So I did want to qualify, that wasn't just done to obstruct the code of conduct. It was due to the fact that
we received a citation.
DOUG TISDALE: And I'm sorry. If that was the implication, I apologize. I was wrong. That was not the
implication I was trying to communicate. I just wondered whether, in fact, in light of this and understanding
the emergent circumstances that required that action, have we had feedback from any members of the ad
hoc committee?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director, I will yield the floor. But initially, when we did this, there was some
communique about some demonstrations. That really was the only notification that we had once I
disseminated that information early on. I would yield the floor to those that know more about the ad hoc
committee, recognizing when I came into the organization, it had just been convened.
And then basically, with the advent of this initiative, we are holding it in abeyance. So I will defer to others
to address that and perhaps, not to you, sir, Director Williams, but recognizing that Director Lewis is the
Chair of the ad hoc committee, I will leave it to Director Williams. Thank you, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis, if you'd like to speak now. If you can hold your question, because
Director Cook has been waiting, and then Director Davidson. But if you want to speak to this, please, we
would all appreciate it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No please, go ahead, Director Cook.
DOUG TISDALE: If I can, just before we go, I just wanted to make sure-- I had one other thought to
express. And that is concerning this committee to report to the Board as a transit police oversight
committee, which I think is an excellent recommendation, makes a lot of sense.
And I know that we have the co-chair of the Citizen's Advisory Committee, Matt Appelbaum. Mayor
Appelbaum is here with us as well. I'm wondering whether the CAC might not take up that role as one of

their functions or perhaps have a subcommittee of that body take up that function? And those are all my
comments and I apologize for going on an extended length. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. We will have your suggestions and comments noted in the
record. And we can pick them up after this meeting. Director Cook, I think you were next.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. For Chief Greene, you had indicated that one thing you looked at
was the possible expansion of use of the ambassadors or the second crew member. Did that include-and I understand, one piece of that is shifting the number who are not security officers, not the Allied
personnel, but RTDs own. Did you also look at extending that to light rail, where they're not currently
required, but it sure seems like there's a benefit.
Whether it's TSO or an ambassador, there's a benefit or might be a benefit of having that second person.
So did you look at that? Do you have data about that? If no data for RTD, do you know of that in other
agencies?
POLLY HANSON: Ashton?
ASHTON GREENE: Yeah. So our view was more conceptual, in terms of the roles of both. And our
recommendation was to try to develop or achieve some sort of assessment where you can compare the
two roles so that you can de-conflict the responsibilities, particularly as it pertains to response times. And
so we go beyond that because that was the determination based on our discussions, that we had to first
make sure that there was no conflict in terms of the roles, because that can be confusing.
You can have a duplication of efforts which can cause additional problems. So the focus was just to
conceptually determine, what would be the role of the second crew member, comparing that to the
function of law enforcement off duty personnel? Did that answer your question?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. And do you know, yourself, agencies that place a second person on light rail?
Or other services?
ASHTON GREENE: No.
POLLY HANSON: Ashton, I was going to ask Chief Alvarez to come up, since he probably has the most
mature ambassador program.
ASHTON GREENE: That's fine.
ED ALVAREZ: Good evening, Director. So yeah, we have an ambassador program that we use in our
system. We have 10 unarmed civilians that ride our system. And they're basically our eyes and ears,
reporting information to our dispatch center. And we train them. We've given them a crisis intervention
training.

We've given them de-escalation training. And we also give them the opportunity to contact the station
agents and walk the platforms and get on our trains to be visible. So we've had it for a little over a year
now. It's been very successful. To the point now, we turned the pilot program into a full time position in
our system.
SHELLEY COOK: Good. Excellent. Thank you. And that's all I have. I would just echo the appreciation
that others have expressed. I think this is hugely helpful. And I wanted to say thanks also to General
Manager CEO Debra Johnson for initiating this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook, appreciate your comments. Dr. Davidson or Director Lewis,
I'm unsure who's next.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Lewis, go ahead. OK. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Lewis.
Thanks for a great presentation and great report. Very, very helpful and very thorough. I was particularly
struck by section 4.5, with just the lack of quality data, that a lot of data is captured by hand, that we don't
have access to a lot. Which-- difficult to make decisions and manage from a lack of data.
It came up, I believe-- well first of all, thank you, Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Greene for diving into
that a little bit. But I believe Chief Pavlik, you alluded during your section that it was difficult to get to some
of these conclusions with some of the lack of data.
I'm just wondering, and this may be a question for the entire panel, but whoever would like to take it is
fine, are there any major unanswered questions or issues you couldn't get as deep into as you would
have liked, given the lack of data? And if so, what might those areas of uncertainty be? Thank you.
POLLY HANSON: Ron or Ashton, do you want to start the response?
ASHTON GREENE: Sure. I mean, for me it connected to the element that was my first bullet from my first
slide, which was deployment. So deployment typically is based on crime stats. You put your resources
where you have known troubles. You have to have some basis of design, if you will, of your security
program.
And so not knowing, for example, the details related to part one crimes, part two crimes. Those are things
like aggravated assaults. And we even found out that there were a lot of instances that were not even
reported. And so not having what we call in the industry a crime picture is almost like being in the blind, if
you will.
And so being able to say, well, based on the data, we recommend this type of security solution. We
recommend for example, the number of canine units you should have based on the number of suspicious
packages that you have. Even in terms of your homeless outreach and engagement, where you have

your hot-spots, that determines the level of resources you apply, how many mental health evaluators you
have.
What is that premised on? So not having that information is limited, in a sense, in terms of being able to
craft or develop a very thoughtful security program. So that's where I felt a little like, OK, this is a priority
and having a day to day crime analyst that could put the dots on the map of where you have issues and
problems is certainly something that would be of added value to get rid of those blind-spots.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Just couldn't make those specific recommendations. Thank you very
much. That answers my question. Appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson. Director Lewis, thank you for your patience. Would you
take the floor, please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. Thank you. Thank you all for this work. I am just ever so grateful for the
work and the effort that you all have put into this. It is thorough and I am quite satisfied by it. I just have
one clarifying question and then I had, potentially a comment.
On packet page 47 it says, proposed RTD security transit security model, community policing and
engagement and increased internal capabilities and then budget. Is that what's being proposed or is this
what was in existence? I wasn't quite sure what this slide was reflecting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Somebody want to try to answer that?
WANDA DUNHAM: I'm sorry. I can answer what I saw. This is Wanda. So when we were looking at the
documents, Chief Grado gave us a stack of documents to go through and that was the ad hoc, the Board
ad hoc committee recommendations.
And I think it was what was going to be proposed or what was going to be presented to the Board. And so
that was one of the documents that we saw. So those are the three areas that the ad hoc committee, the
safety security ad hoc committee had discussed. And so I think that's where it came from. Correct, Polly?
POLLY HANSON: Yes. It came from what was proposed and then what the panel observed and then the
recommendations that were made. So it was looking at where you are, where you wanted to be, and then
the recommendations of where the panel suggests you might want to consider going or evaluating further.
Does that make sense, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. And then I had a question about the
fare pay zones. It's my understanding that we had moved away from that. And back in 2012, that the
Colorado legislature actually repealed that law.

And so I'm just curious as to how we're thinking about the implementation of that. And I'll just be honest,
that I have a concern that we might unintentionally be criminalizing poverty with the fare pay zone. So I'd
really like to talk a bit more about our thinking around that. And also maybe we can hear from Melanie, if
it's something that we are able to execute.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair and Director Lewis. I'm not familiar with the 2012
amendment that you're talking about. I'll definitely look into that and get back with the Board, for sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Thank you so much. And then in terms of next-- one thing that I wanted to
add, and I think Director Dishell spoke about this a bit. You all talked about diversity recruiting and
retention, is always really important for me. And so just having a specific goal that is about how we are
retaining folks because we can recruit as much as we want, but if we can't keep them, then it's all in vain.
So just being very specific about the retention. Those are all my comments. I really appreciate the work
that you all have done on this. And thank you, General Manager for doing this peer review. I really
appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Tisdale, your hand is up. Is that a leftover hand or
a new hand.
DOUG TISDALE: It is a leftover hand because I didn't have dinner and I was trying to get some leftovers.
Sorry, I'll take it down.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Dishell, is that a leftover hand or a new hand?
BOBBY DISHELL: This is a new hand, upon some reflection. Which is for-- what I asked about retention,
you had mentioned that mentorship was a key component to that. Are there agencies or common practice
that are compensating those people, those individuals, specifically our marginalized individuals for, in
essence, doing extra work?
I don't think we ask our white employees to participate in a mentorship program to help retain other white
employees. So I just want to make sure that extra labor-- is it being properly compensated? How are
other agencies who maybe have a robust mentorship program approaching this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may take that question, Director Williams, recognizing that any type of work
that is done from that element, generally is compensated. And that's been my experience at the various
agencies in which I've worked. Especially when we look at collective bargaining agreements and things of
the like, if, in fact, we do have that, there is a pay differential to compensate the additional work duties
that are absorbed from that effort.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both. I do not see any more hands up. I'd like to ask the peer review
committee if they have anything further that they would like to bring to us, based on this conversation.
POLLY HANSON: I think once again, we want to thank you for the opportunity. And certainly, General
Manager and CEO Johnson, who actually presented on a panel today at the APTA conference. And of
course, APTA did, going back to Director Dishell's comment, have a very extensive panel on diversity and
inclusion.
And there were a number of conversations about just the kind of programs you were talking about. So I
think there will be some best practices coming out of the efforts. And once again, your own General
Manager CEO was a presenter today at the conference.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Hanson. I have one more thing and it's the Chair's prerogative. I'd like
to ask-- I see that Bob Grado is here now. If he has anything he wants to add to this conversation, since
he did not get a chance to speak earlier.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. First of all, sorry. My login was not letting me come up front and talk to you guys. So
somebody behind the curtain fixed that for me. So I think the best thing to do-- I will send out some
information to the directors regarding the change in the security officers from the 40% retention dropping
down to the most recent 84%.
We do have some data on that we can share with you guys. Other than that, I'm here if anybody has any
questions. Happy to answer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that offer, sir.
BOB GRADO: And then lastly, I just want to say thank you to our panel and to CEO Johnson for allowing
this to happen. And it was a great experience for all of us.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I think that concludes our discussion on this topic. I see no more hands. I'd like to
also thank the entire group for the work that they did for us and for all of our people who participated in
helping to move this issue forward at RTD.
Thank you, everybody. I do not see anything further on this discussion. So as part of this committee
meeting, we're going to move on. The next-- there is no second discussion item that I'm aware of. And so
we will go to other matters.
Are there any other matters to come before this committee? OK. Hearing none, I do not have the next
meeting date in front of me. If anybody has the next meeting date on their agenda. I see Debra Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: It's next Tuesday, ma'am.

KATE WILLIAMS: For this committee?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, it's June 15th.
KATE WILLIAMS: I thought as much, but didn't look right to me. It's usually a month later. So the next
committee meeting will be June 15th at 5:30, also on Zoom. And seeing no other discussion, I'm going to
adjourn this committee. We will take a five minute break prior to our next committee meeting for comfort.
See you all back here shortly. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you,
KATE WILLIAMS: Melanie, we're adjourned at 5:00, 6:00, whatever it is. We're adjourned at 7:12.

