Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 19, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Gary Abbink – LRT Train Operator – 21 years
Timothy J. Aguilar – Lead Dispatcher – 29 years
Howard Alton – Bus Operator – 25 years
Terry DeArment – Bus Operator – 35 years
Charles H. Castro – Sales and Information Representative – 26 years
Anita Karen Davidson – Bus Operator – 29 years
Eugene E. Gasteratos – Bus Operator – 22 years
Steve Garrett – Project Master Technician – 27 years
Jerome Hall – Bus Operator – 39 years
Gary Hull – Bus Operator – 21 years
Ronald R. Romero – Bus Operator – 28 years
Lane D. Ryden – Certified Mechanic – 40 years
Dan Sundquist – Electro-Mechanic – 24 years
David Sutton – Unit Shop Technician – 26 years
Curtis L. Whiteley – Project Master Technician – 25 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone

Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

2018 Audit Charter

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached 2018 Audit Charter.
B.

Annual Audit Plan 2018

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2018.
C.

Budget Transfer for Planning Grant Projects

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $4.664 million from the Operating
Reserve to the Planning base system expense grant project budget, effective January
1, 2018, to allow for the completion of grant-funded projects that will not be
completed in 2017. The Operating Reserve will be replenished in the 2018 Amended
Budget with the funds that were not spent on these projects in 2017.
D.

Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 60 - 40' Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise the contract
option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. for the purchase of 60 additional
40’ transit buses and associated spare components in an amount not to exceed
$26,350,000.
E.

5311 Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2018 and for amounts not to exceed $379,677.00 for
Boulder County, $373,346.00 for Adams County and $115,679.00 for Jefferson County.

F.

City of Boulder Hop Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial
areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business
and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,430,742.00.
G.

Exercise Option for On-Vehicle Advertising Contract

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to exercise the one-time extension with Lamar
Advertising of Denver [Lamar] for the two-year period January 1, 2018 through December
31, 2019. Under the terms of the recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either
1) a minimum guarantee of $3.4 million in 2018 and $3.4 million in 2019 or 2) seventy
percent of net sales, whichever is greater.

XII.

Recommended Action
H.

Recommendation for On-Call Construction Services Contracts

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award contracts to Krische
Construction, Gilmore Construction Corporation, HPM Incorporated and T-Bone
Construction Inc. for On-Call Construction Services for one year, with four optional oneyear extensions. The maximum cumulative value of the four contracts, including all
optional extensions will not exceed $30 million.
I.

Contract Award for the Regional Bus Rapid Transit Feasibility Study

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a professional
services contract award to Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for
assistance in the preparation of the Regional Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Feasibility Study
for an amount not to exceed $1,250,000. Funding for this contract is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
J.

Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt updated 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures to include measures for
ridership, fare revenue, and total operating revenue.
K.

DRCOG Vanpool Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents

necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program
in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and shall be in
an amount not to exceed $1,058,600.
L.

Englewood Art Shuttle Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the Art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for an amount not to exceed
$336,208.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

