1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
B
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 19, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Absent
Present
Present

Arrived

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present
Absent
Present
Present

5:36 PM
5:29 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:33 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:33 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

4:24 PM

4:39 PM
5:32 PM

5:32 PM
5:34 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were thirteen (13) members present at roll call.
Directors Anderson and Francone were absent.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Gina Callahan, Nicole
Carey, Susan Cohen, Anita Davidson, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry
Emmons, David Genova, Bob Grado, Gary Hull, James Maguire, Brian
Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike
Meader, Tai-Shrae Parish, Mace Pemberton, Scott Reed, Ruth
Seleske, Jannette Scarpino, Henry Kevin Steele, Stopplecamp, Mark
Tieman, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Dr. William Gross, Delaina Hull, Donald Stitt, John Thompson, Nicole
Townsend, Gary Van Dorn

The Chair discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency situation occurred.

IV.

Retiree Awards
Chair Hoy stated that there were a number of retirees for the month of December and
asked the General Manager and staff to present the retirees.
General Manager Genova asked Bruce Abel to approach the podium.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, noted that the first retiree of the evening was Anita Davidson. He said that
Ms. Davidson was retiring after 29 years of service to the district and she first served as a
bus operator and then as a revenue instructor. He noted that her retirement plans included
traveling to Albania to work for the World English Institute.
Ms. Davidson commented that the retiree award meant a lot to her. She added that
sometimes drivers get on the road and do not realize how important their jobs were to
everyone else. She said that she remembered one time when a man kept saying that he
was going to blow his wife away and she asked if he had any children and what would
happen to them and to him if he did that. She said that RTD serves many people day-today from all walks of life and the agency has so many neat things going on and it had
been great to have been a part of it.
Mr. Abel also recognized Gary Hull, who had 20 years of service with RTD. He thanked
Mr. Hull’s wife for sharing him with RTD for the past 20 years and said that Mr. Hull’s
retirement plans would include sleeping in late and working for RTD as a part time driver.
Mr. Hull said when he first started working for RTD people told him that 20 years would
fly by in the blink of an eye and they were right. He thanked RTD for the ability to provide
for his family and for all of the people he had met along the way.

Chair Hoy added that it was always great to see the people who had worked so hard for
RTD and noted that they are what made RTD a great organization.

V.

Public Participation
Gary Van Dorn, Denver, said that he was speaking on behalf of the National Federation of
the Blind of Colorado (NFBCO). He commented that Civic Center Station was absolutely
gorgeous, but after exploring the station, he noted that half of the braille was incorrect or
that signage required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was missing. He stated
that the NFBCO was unhappy that proper signage was not installed or was incorrect, and
they were also dismayed that RTD did not consult with them in advance of Civic Center
Station’s re-opening. He stated that he would like to work directly with the General
Manager to resolve the issue as soon as possible.
Chair Hoy said that Mr. Van Dorn’s concerns would be investigated right away.
Chair Hoy added that Mr. Joe Triplett, a constituent who regularly attends Board
meetings, was unable to attend and asked that the Chair extend a happy holiday message
from him to the Board.

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
There was no update from the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to approve
the Board Meeting minutes of November 28,
2017.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow said that there was an error in the minutes and
that the discussion of the General Manager’s bonus only
reflected 1% and not the original 4%.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, said that votes are reviewed
from the bottom up, and the last vote was for 1%.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office,
said that the 1% discussion was located in Other Matters.
Mr. Asphaug reiterated that after the original motion failed
where the 4% discussion occurred, the motion was brought
forward for re-consideration and was discussed in New
Business.
Chair Hoy noted that Director Lubow’s concern would be
reviewed and corrected if needed.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor (Archuleta,
Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 0
against. Directors Anderson and Francone were
absent and Director Solano abstained.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

ACCEPTED [12 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Lorraine Anderson, Tina Francone

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy provided the following report:
Attended events and awards
 December 1st – The Denver Regional Mobility & Access Council (DRMAC) Annual
Meeting and Regional Coordinating Council (RCC) Annual Meeting was held, and
Directors Tisdale and Williams attended.

 December 4th – District H had its Open House in Centennial, and Director Tisdale
attended.
 December 4th – Was proclaimed Colorado’s Autonomous and Connected Vehicle
Day, and Directors Mihalik and Williams attended the event at Panasonic.
 December 5th – Mayor Hancock’s 2017 Sustainable Denver Summit was held in
Denver. Director Solano attended.
 December 7th – The Metro Mayors Caucus & Metro Area County Commissioners
Regional Leadership Reception was held in Denver and Directors Francone,
Lubow, and Tisdale attended.
 December 8th – The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group
breakfast was held in Centennial, and Director Tisdale attended.


December 13th – District I had its Open House in Longmont, and Director Lubow
attended.

 December 14th – District N had its Open House, and Director Francone attended.
 December 15th – The Civic Center Re-Dedication Ceremony was held at Civic
Center Station and Directors Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Mihalik,
Solano, Tisdale, Williams, and myself attended.
Ongoing and upcoming events
 January 4th – Director Solano will be attending the Denver Metro Chamber’s 5th
Annual Business Legislative Preview Breakfast in Denver.
 January 8th – District C will have its Open House at Trevista at Horace Mann in
Denver, and Director Archuleta will attend.
 January 9th – Commuting Solutions will host its 9th Legislative Breakfast at the
Lionsgate Event Center in Lafayette. Directors Sisk, Solano, and myself will
attend.
 January 9th – Will also be the Special Board Meeting and Executive Committee
Election in this room.
 January 10th – District E will host its Open House at Whole Foods Market in
Denver, and Director Folska will attend.
 January 11th – District D will host its Open House at Englewood High School and
Director Walker will attend.
 January 31st – District J will host its Open House, and I will be in attendance.
Director Menten inquired as to which ways the Open Houses were being advertised.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, said that staff putt out news
releases to the media and posted on RTD’s website and social media.

Director Menten asked if Channel 8 was receptive to or being asked to provide the
information on their channel.
Mr. Reed said that sometimes, if an event is not a municipality specific event, they will
not, but he noted that the information is being published and is available for their use.
Director Menten noted that she was going to try to attend as many open houses as she
could make. She added that she was going to start a Ride-n-Dine program in her district
and noted that people who signed up for the event were responsible for paying their own
way and the first event would be held at a dollar soup and salad bar.
Mr. Reed noted that invitations were also emailed out to people to promote the events.
Director Menten added that, if anyone would like to join her for the first Ride-n-Dine event,
the meal itself would be inexpensive. She said that the ride and meal would be $17.50 or
less, which included the tip.
Director Folska said that, for District E, it would be great if RTD could advertise and invite
city council members as well as local school administrators. She noted that publishing ads
in local newspapers, such as The Villager, would be great.
Mr. Reed explained that staff focused on the community newspaper in each district, the
larger paper such as the Denver Post, and the local elected officials. He said that Directors
were welcome to provide their own email list and added that staff would be happy to work
with each Director on their specific needs or requests.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:
 Attended the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) Board Meeting,
Leadership APTA and met with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) on
Thursday, November 30th through Friday, December 1st.
 Met with the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Region VIII Administrator,
Cindy Terwilliger, on Monday, December 4th.
 Attended the Colorado Autonomous and Connected Vehicle day at Panasonic with
Governor Hickenlooper on Monday, December 4th.
 Met with Nancy Freed, Aurora Deputy City Manager, Mac Callison, Aurora
Transportation Planning Supervisor, Dave Chambers, Aurora Director of Public
Works, and Roberto Venegas, Aurora Assistant City Manager/Intergovernmental
Relations and staff on Tuesday, December 5th.
 Attended the Visit Denver Government & Community Affairs Committee on
Wednesday, December 6th.













Had a conference call with the Denver Transit Partners (DTP) Board on Thursday,
December 7th.
Attended a quarterly meeting with Mayor Hancock on Thursday, December 7th.
Attended the Metro Mayors Caucus & Metro Area County Commissioners Regional
Leadership Reception on Thursday, December 7th.
Attended the Northwest/US 36 Stakeholder quarterly meeting on Friday, December
8th.
Met with State Representative Phillip Covarrubias on Monday, December 11th.
Attended the Civic Center Media Tour on Tuesday, December 12th.
Met with the APTA Rail Rodeo Planning Committee on Tuesday, December 12th.
Attended the Visit Denver Board of Directors Meeting on Wednesday, December
13th.
Met with the House Minority Leader Patrick Neville on Wednesday, December 13th.
Met with State Representative Cole Wist on Wednesday, December 13th.
Attended the 2017 Leadership Academy Graduation on Thursday, December 14th.

General Manager Genova added that, after the pre-hearing conference with the
administrative law judge, staff would look to set the final schedule in mid-January. He said
that staff was confident that the hearing would be scheduled for some time in February,
but staff would know more after the public commentary closed.
Director Folska inquired if the Leadership Academy graduates could make their final
presentations to the Board.
General Manager Genova said that he would review the schedule to see if that could be
added.
Director Broom commented that he had read an article that stated that the student pass
came out to $24.50 and asked if that was for both high school and college students
Chair Hoy said that college passes were offered through the respective universities or
colleges in the college pass program.
General Manger Genova noted that, for college passes, RTD had a master contract with
each college or university that opted into the program, and the cost of the pass was then
passed onto each student through their student fees, whether they used the pass or not.
Chair Hoy added that Front Range Community College did not like the concept of the all or
nothing pass, and that was why they were not participating in the college pass program.

Director Deadwyler asked if the article Director Broom mentioned was correct in that RTD
offered student passes at $24.50.
General Manager Genova said that any student up through high school, or age 19, could
get a 50% discount on a pass, and currently a local monthly pass would equate to $49.00
for K-12 students.
Chair Hoy commented that the article Director Broom had mentioned was wrong, and they
had used a half of a half to get to $24.50 and were incorrect.
Director Tisdale stated that, in light of the circumstances the previous day in Washington,
he would like staff to provide information to the Board as it became available.
General Manager Genova noted that it was very early in the investigation, and that train
was not under Positive Train Control (PTC), whereas RTD’s system was.
Director Williams thanked Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, for her input earlier in the day at the Pass Program
Working Group (PPWG) and for all of her efforts in the process.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy suggested that if there were any questions or need for discussion of an agenda
item, a Director should request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda.
Seeing none, he asked for a motion to approve items A through G.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve
items A-G on the unanimous consent agenda.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska said that Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) did an outstanding job with the van
pool, however, RTD and DROCG both provide transportation
outside of the district and in the future she would like a
broader conversation about that.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Archuleta,
Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker,

Williams) and 0 against. Directors Anderson and
Francone were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Tina Francone

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
A.

2018 Audit Charter

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached 2018 Audit Charter.
B.

Annual Audit Plan 2018

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2018.
C.

Budget Transfer for Planning Grant Projects

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $4.664 million from the Operating
Reserve to the Planning base system expense grant project budget, effective January
1, 2018, to allow for the completion of grant-funded projects that will not be
completed in 2017. The Operating Reserve will be replenished in the 2018 Amended
Budget with the funds that were not spent on these projects in 2017.
D.

Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 60 - 40' Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise the contract
option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. for the purchase of 60 additional
40’ transit buses and associated spare components in an amount not to exceed
$26,350,000.
E.

5311 Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These

Agreements are for calendar year 2018 and for amounts not to exceed $379,677.00 for
Boulder County, $373,346.00 for Adams County and $115,679.00 for Jefferson County.
F.

City of Boulder Hop Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial
areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business
and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,430,742.00.
G.

Exercise Option for On-Vehicle Advertising Contract

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to exercise the one-time extension with Lamar
Advertising of Denver [Lamar] for the two-year period January 1, 2018 through December
31, 2019. Under the terms of the recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either
1) a minimum guarantee of $3.4 million in 2018 and $3.4 million in 2019 or 2) seventy
percent of net sales, whichever is greater.

XII.

Recommended Action
H.

Recommendation for On-Call Construction Services Contracts

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award contracts to Krische
Construction, Gilmore Construction Corporation, HPM Incorporated and T-Bone
Construction Inc. for On-Call Construction Services for one year, with four optional oneyear extensions. The maximum cumulative value of the four contracts, including all
optional extensions will not exceed $30 million.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to approve the
Recommendation for On-Call Construction
Services Contracts.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Menten asked how this contract related to the 16th
Street Mall repairs.
General Manager Genova commented that there was a
separate contract just for the 16th Street Mall repairs.
Vote on

The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor
(Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 1 opposed (Menten). Directors
Anderson and Francone were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [12 TO 1]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Lorraine Anderson, Tina Francone

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
I.
Contract Award for the Regional Bus Rapid Transit Feasibility Study
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a professional
services contract award to Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for
assistance in the preparation of the Regional Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Feasibility Study
for an amount not to exceed $1,250,000. Funding for this contract is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
the Contract Award for the Regional Bus Rapid
Transit Feasibility Study.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Archuleta,
Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 1
opposed (Folska). Directors Anderson and
Francone were absent. Director Sisk was away.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED [11 TO 1]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska
Lorraine Anderson, Tina Francone
Chuck Sisk

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
J.
Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt updated 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures to include measures for
ridership, fare revenue, and total operating revenue.
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to approve
the Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance
Measures.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Archuleta,
Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker) and 0 opposed.
Director Williams abstained, and Director
Deadwyler was away. Directors Anderson and
Francone were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED [11 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker
Kate Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

K.

DRCOG Vanpool Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program
in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and shall be in
an amount not to exceed $1,058,600.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to approve the
DRCOG Vanpool Funding Agreement.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 10 in favor (Archuleta,
Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 2 opposed
(Menten, Mihalik). Director Deadwyler was
away. Directors Anderson and Francone were
absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED [10 TO 2]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams
Ken Mihalik, Natalie Menten
Lorraine Anderson, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
L.
Englewood Art Shuttle Funding Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the Art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for an amount not to exceed
$336,208.

Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to approve
the Englewood Art Shuttle Funding Agreement.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Archuleta,
Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 2
opposed (Menten, Mihalik). Directors Anderson
and Francone absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [11 TO 2]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Ken Mihalik, Natalie Menten
Lorraine Anderson, Tina Francone

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
Director Lubow thanked staff for their hard work and their help at the Open House in
Longmont. She said that everyone did a sterling job and it was a pleasant evening, which
she was very grateful for.
Director Menten added that she was glad to hear that the event was not hostile. She said
that if District I knew how hard Director Lubow fought for her district, they would not be
mean to her at all.

XV.

New Business
Director Folska thanked staff, her colleagues on the Board, and the Board Office and said
that she was proud to serve the district and looking forward to the new year. She added
that her heart and prayers were going out to everyone on the inaugural ride on the
Washington train the previous day and commented that hopefully RTD could learn from
that accident.

Chair Hoy remarked that this would be the end of the year for the Board and he wanted to
thank everyone in the room, and to those that could not make it for all of their hard work.
He noted that, while sometimes the Board can get down in the weeds, the agency itself
puts on a heck of an effort. He said that everyone was a part of the team and wished
everyone a festive holiday season and prosperous new year.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:30 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

