Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 19, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Gary Abbink – LRT Train Operator – 21 years
Timothy J. Aguilar – Lead Dispatcher – 29 years
Howard Alton – Bus Operator – 25 years
Terry DeArment – Bus Operator – 35 years
Charles H. Castro – Sales and Information Representative – 26 years
Anita Karen Davidson – Bus Operator – 29 years
Eugene E. Gasteratos – Bus Operator – 22 years
Steve Garrett – Project Master Technician – 27 years
Jerome Hall – Bus Operator – 39 years
Gary Hull – Bus Operator – 21 years
Ronald R. Romero – Bus Operator – 28 years
Lane D. Ryden – Certified Mechanic – 40 years
Dan Sundquist – Electro-Mechanic – 24 years
David Sutton – Unit Shop Technician – 26 years
Curtis L. Whiteley – Project Master Technician – 25 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone

Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

2018 Audit Charter

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached 2018 Audit Charter.
B.

Annual Audit Plan 2018

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2018.
C.

Budget Transfer for Planning Grant Projects

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $4.664 million from the Operating
Reserve to the Planning base system expense grant project budget, effective January
1, 2018, to allow for the completion of grant-funded projects that will not be
completed in 2017. The Operating Reserve will be replenished in the 2018 Amended
Budget with the funds that were not spent on these projects in 2017.
D.

Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 60 - 40' Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise the contract
option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. for the purchase of 60 additional
40’ transit buses and associated spare components in an amount not to exceed
$26,350,000.
E.

5311 Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2018 and for amounts not to exceed $379,677.00 for
Boulder County, $373,346.00 for Adams County and $115,679.00 for Jefferson County.

F.

City of Boulder Hop Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial
areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business
and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,430,742.00.
G.

Exercise Option for On-Vehicle Advertising Contract

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to exercise the one-time extension with Lamar
Advertising of Denver [Lamar] for the two-year period January 1, 2018 through December
31, 2019. Under the terms of the recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either
1) a minimum guarantee of $3.4 million in 2018 and $3.4 million in 2019 or 2) seventy
percent of net sales, whichever is greater.

XII.

Recommended Action
H.

Recommendation for On-Call Construction Services Contracts

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award contracts to Krische
Construction, Gilmore Construction Corporation, HPM Incorporated and T-Bone
Construction Inc. for On-Call Construction Services for one year, with four optional oneyear extensions. The maximum cumulative value of the four contracts, including all
optional extensions will not exceed $30 million.
I.

Contract Award for the Regional Bus Rapid Transit Feasibility Study

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a professional
services contract award to Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for
assistance in the preparation of the Regional Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Feasibility Study
for an amount not to exceed $1,250,000. Funding for this contract is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
J.

Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt updated 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures to include measures for
ridership, fare revenue, and total operating revenue.
K.

DRCOG Vanpool Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents

necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program
in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and shall be in
an amount not to exceed $1,058,600.
L.

Englewood Art Shuttle Funding Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the Art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for an amount not to exceed
$336,208.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

6.A

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, December 5, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent

Arrived

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:30 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

4:54 PM
5:20 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Absent

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:14 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Absent
Present

5:31 PM
5:31 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:07 PM

5:10 PM

Packet Pg. 5

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Caitlin Arnold, Rolf Asphaug, Nicole Carey, Lou Cripps,
Jeff Cluphf,Paul DesRocher, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry
Emmons, Andrew Gale, David Genova, Adriana Gibson, Bob Grado,
John Hersey, Jim Kelly, Mitch Kuharski, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Jeff Miessel, Allen Miller,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Ruth Seleske, Bill Sirois, Amruta
Somalwar, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, Michael Washington, Brian Welch.

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Holly Buck, Patricia Doersch, Tim Drake, Mike
Hylez, Enrique Maguire, Anne Mieno, Chris Nevitt, William
Richardson, Dave Sachs, Vivian Stovall, John Thompson, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner.

Director Anderson participated via phone. Directors Archuleta, Lubow, and Solano were
absent.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates
Committee Chair Walker commented that Roger Sherman of CRL Associates
was unable to attend, but his written report was included in the meeting
packet. He noted that if a Director had any questions they should contact
Mr. Sherman or Sherry Ellebracht, RTD’s Government Relations Officer.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna (BBMK), said that the
Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) had met the previous
week and there was conversation about a draft bill regarding state funding
for supplementing low-income transit riders. She noted that it failed, but
given some interest by legislators, BBMK had been meeting with House and
Senate members to update them on the status of RTD’s pass program
working group and to answer questions. She anticipated legislation on this
topic to come up during the next session, which was scheduled to convene
on January 10, 2018. She also noted that BBMK had met with
Representative Lebsock, who had an interest in auditing the district. She
noted that he was unaware how many times the state audits RTD and that
BBMK was able to educate him on other topics as well. Finally, she
commented that lawyers from the Scientific and Cultural Facilities District
(SCFD) had been working all summer and fall on draft bill language that
could be amenable to both the Republican Senate and Democratic House.
She added that there would be a robust stakeholder group meeting on the
Packet Pg. 6

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

811 call system, which impacts a lot of utilities and could impact the
district, and said the bill would likely be introduced during the next session.
Committee Chair Walker noted that he had forgotten to read the safety
procedures when the meeting began. He reminded the Board and audience
what to do in case an emergency situation occurred and proceeded to read
the safety procedures.

Ms. Brandeberry commented that the only rumor she heard came during the
special session, but it was not drafted or put into legislation and she had not
heard anything else to date.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Patricia Doersch, Squire Patton Boggs (SBP), stated that she, along with
colleagues Anne Mieno, Tim Drake, and Mike Dino would provide the federal
update to the Board.
Ms. Doersch stated that $63.3 million dollars was in the House
Appropriations Bill, the Senate Appropriations Bill, and the President’s
recommendation for the Appropriations Bill, and SPB believes that the $63.3
million for the EAGLE project will be in the final transportation appropriation
bill presentation, which should be finalized by Christmas or shortly
thereafter. The $63.3 million represents the final and full amount for the
EAGLE project.
Mr. Dino stated that FasTracks continued to receive recognition by people in
the administration and was one of the prime items always on the agenda.
He noted that:
• FasTracks:
o More than $1 billion in contracts to small, Minority Business
Enterprise (MBE), and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise
(DBE) businesses over 12 years, through the FasTracks
program.
• Improvements / Expansions:
o RTD received a five-year approval from Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA) for the University of Colorado A Line and
the B Line.
o Reopening of the state-of-the-art Civic Center Station.
• Federal Funding: $63.3 million for the final year of the Eagle P3
project, part of $2.8 billion in federal grant and loan
commitments.
o Funding is included in the House and Senate Fiscal Year 2018
Transportation/HUD appropriations bills.
Packet Pg. 7

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Broom asked if there had been any rumors about putting people
putting strings attached to the reinstatement of the marijuana tax.

6.A

Mr. Dino commented that RTD continued to be a leading voice in public
transportation. He noted that:
• Senate Environment + Public Works (EPW) Committee held a
Roundtable on Transit Finance in May
o CFO shared RTD’s innovative approaches for generating and
capturing the economic benefits of transit.
• RTD sent a letter to US DOT Secretary Elaine Chao in support of
continued New Starts (Capital Investment Grants/CIG) funding in
May
o RTD shared its Eagle P3 experience after reviewing FY 2018
budget proposal that would end funding for new CIG projects
nationwide.
• Rail-Volution Conference was held in Denver in September
o
RTD co-hosted conference; Board Chair and CEO
participated as plenary speakers.
• Site Visit by House T&I Chairman Bill Shuster occurred in October.
o RTD hosted Chairman Shuster for a tour of Denver Union
Station (DUS), the surrounding transit oriented development,
and the University of Colorado A Line.
Mr. Dino commented that the Federal priorities included:
• New Starts: Securing full funding for the Eagle P3 in the 2018
fiscal year omnibus appropriations bill expected in late December
or early January.
• FRA approvals for commuter rail service: RTD successfully
secured a 5-year FRA approval for the University of Colorado A
Line and B Line.
• Return of Credit Risk Premium (CRP) funds on Railroad
Rehabilitation & Improvement (RRIF) Loan: RTD is currently
seeking the return of the $29 million credit risk premium paid on
the RRIF loan for the DUS project.
o Making RTD’s case to:
• US Department of Transportation (DOT) Build America
Bureau
• House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
staff
• Senate Commerce Committee staff
• Senate Banking Committee staff
• Upcoming Opportunities:
o Infrastructure bill in early 2018
o Highway Trust Fund revenue solution
Packet Pg. 8

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

He noted that, as Ms. Doersch had mentioned, SPB was looking forward to
Congress finishing the 2018 appropriations in order to finish the final grant
for the EAGLE P3 project.

6.A

Ms. Doersch stated that she wanted to pose the questions that Mr. Drake
and Ms. Mieno would answer so that the Board would know what RTD was
struggling with at the moment. She noted that funding for programs and all
government agencies ended on Friday, December 6, 2017. She asked what
Congress planned to do to keep the government operating while the House
and Senate tried to reach an agreement on tax reform and budget deals. She
noted that the government was currently operating under a two-month
continuing resolution and, because of that, transportation funding was on
hold. She added that it should be infrastructures turn in Washington, and if
so, she questioned what Congress, the White House, and the Department of
Transportation (DOT) had in mind. Finally, she stated that open positons
were being filled at the DOT but noted that RTD would need to be cognizant
of policy changes due to those appointments. She further commented that
one thing SPB is working towards was the refund of the CRP, but she stated
that would require top secretarial input, along with the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB).
Ms. Mieno remarked New Starts funding for the EAGLE P3 project was
reliant on:
• House and Senate bills that would fully fund the Eagle P3 funding
request
o RTD’s FY 2018 request: $63.3 million.
• President’s FY 2018 budget request:
o $63.3 million
o Pending House and Senate FY 2018 Transportation, Housing,
and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD)
appropriations bills: Both fund the Eagle P3 project at $63.3
million.
• A full-year spending bill: US DOT will not award grants under
discretionary programs (programs in the control of the
Appropriators) in the absence of a full-year spending bill.
• It is likely that no FY 2018 New Starts funding will be awarded
until after a full-year omnibus spending bill is enacted.
Mr. Drake commented that DOT leadership under Secretary Chao is ongoing.
He started that:
• Nominations and appointments were in progress:
o Pace of nominations and appointments had increased.
o RTD should expect substantive policy decisions to follow.
Packet Pg. 9

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

He noted that Director Folska had inquired about the Highway Trust Fund
(HTF) and if any technological innovations would help that issue. He added
that the return of the CRP was something that SPB continued to forage for
in Washington D.C., with the Colorado delegation as well as the rest of
Congress.

•

•

•

•

Chao’s top 3 US DOT leaders had been confirmed:
o Deputy Secretary: Jeffrey Rosen
o Under Secretary for Policy: Derek Kan
o General Counsel: Steven Bradbury
Federal Transit Administration:
o Awaiting nomination of an Administrator.
o Deputy Administrator: Jane Williams has been appointed.
Federal Railroad Administration:
o Administrator: Ronald Batory had been nominated;
awaiting confirmation.
o Deputy Administrator: Heath Hall had been appointed.
Build America Bureau (TIFIA, RRIF, private activity bonds):
o Executive Director position vacant.

Mr. Drake stated that opportunities in an infrastructure bill included:
• Potential for a long-sought HTF revenue solution:
o Closing the gap between spending levels and dedicated HTF
revenues seen as “unfinished business” after Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation (FAST) Act.
o Still broad bipartisan Congressional support: In June, a letter
from 253 House Members sought long-term revenue solution
in tax reform.
• But surface transportation funding is not a must-pass bill:
o FAST Act funds surface transportation programs through
2020.
o Other Trump/Congressional priorities include: healthcare, tax
reform, and trade.
o Competing transportation priorities in FY 2018 include: Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization, autonomous
vehicles.
o Same politically difficult revenue options such as: taxes on
gasoline, oil and gas production, vehicle-miles traveled.
Ms. Mieno remarked that the Infrastructure and Tax Reform Bill was:
• Congress’ current focus was tax reform:
o House passed its tax reform bill on November 16th; Senate
passed its bill on December 2nd.
• House and Senate would vote on a final tax bill before the end of
the calendar year.
o Early hope was tax reform could serve as a vehicle for an HTF
revenue solution or at least a one-time funding boost, neither
of which were included in the House or Senate tax bills.
• Republicans were using tax reform to lower rates, not
for new spending.
o Yet the gas tax debate continues:
Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

White House advisor Gary Cohn recently floated the
idea of a gas tax increase to the bipartisan
congressional Problems Solvers Caucus.
• Senator Schumer recently voiced opposition to a gas
tax increase as a regressive tax; favors use of one-time
repatriated revenues.
Now playing defense: fighting to keep favorable infrastructurerelated tax provisions such as private activity bonds, advance
refundings, and commuter benefits.

o

Ms. Doresch noted that the President’s Infrastructure Proposal had:
• Still too much speculation and very few specifics.
• Timing: Anticipated by early 2018 after tax reform. Congress
likely must vote on a bill by May; thereafter the window for
moving a bill starts to close due to elections.
• Funding and Finance: the President’s original proposal still stood
which included leveraging $200 billion in Federal funding to
attract a total of $1 trillion in infrastructure investment.
o Financed through both public and private capital.
o Recently, the President stated that P3s were “more trouble
than they’re worth.”
• Regulatory Reform: reducing or eliminating burdensome
regulations to cut red tape and advance project approvals more
quickly.
o Secretary Chao asserted that regulatory red tape was the
biggest hurdle to project advancement than lack of funding.
• Transportation stakeholders were not giving up on an HTF
revenue solution; if not in tax reform, then here.
•
Ms. Doresch commented that changes in transit programs could include:
• Authorizers reluctant to revisit carefully-crafted compromises in
the FAST Act.
o Authorizers wanted any additional Federal funding to be
distributed via FAST Act formula programs, which were in
place through FY 2020.
• Republican-led Congress rejected Trump Administration
proposals to zero-out TIGER and new CIG funding in FY
2018 Transportation, Housing, and Urban
Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) bills.
• Where change was likely was in regulatory reform:
o White House Council on Environmental Quality focused on
streamlining and reducing permitting requirements on
infrastructure projects.
o US DOT pulled back two-man crew rulemaking and sleep
apnea rulemaking for FRA-regulated operators.
Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

•

6.A

US DOT eliminated local hire pilot program for highway and
transit projects.
Strong support for Buy America requirements government-wide
o

•

Mr. Dino commented that he did not know the total dollar amount for all
applications submitted, but stated that Colorado did not have a great history
of receiving funding from the TIGER program. He noted that it was a very
competitive program and this was the first time the program was being
administered under a new administration. He added that the billions of
dollars RTD received over the years had not gone un-noticed, and being very
competitive, it did not help that the state had not come up with a
coordinated program to seek TIGER funding.
Ms. Doersch added that it was difficult to make two awards in the same
state, but there was broad support within the Colorado delegation.
Director Folska noted that CDOT’s TIGER application for the I-25 expansion
was $62 million dollars, whereas RTD’s TIGER application was for $12
million, and she asked if that would make a difference.
Ms. Doersch stated that $62 million would be unprecedented, and $12
million is typically considered the sweet spot.
Director Folska asked what impact it had if the head of a government
agency was acting or confirmed.
Ms. Doersch stated that if someone was in an acting role they had full
authority for as long as they were in that position
Director Folska asked if they had any updates on the Vehicles Miles Traveled
(VMT) Tax pilot program going on in Oregon.
Mr. Drake stated that the pilot was ongoing, and Oregon would report their
findings over the next two years.
Director Francone asked if the $550 million TIGER Grant appropriation
approved by the Senate was a normal amount.
Ms. Doersch said yes, and noted that it was always appropriated around the
$500 million level.
Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Broom said that, in terms of the TIGER Grant, the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) was counting on a TIGER Grant to
widen I-25 from Castle Rock to Colorado Springs. He asked how many
applications were standing in Colorado and whether that one project would
wipe out all of the funding for the state.

6.A

Director Francone asked if there was anything that RTD, APTA, or other
transit agencies could do to ease the current administration’s minds that
P3’s were an important component to public transportation.

Director Francone asked, with respect to the credit risk premium, whether
SPB was optimistic that RTD would be refunded that money.
Ms. Doersch said that she was hopeful. She commented that this was under
the control of the DOT and OMB. She noted that, while they could make the
decision for the refund, no one had ever received their CRP payment back.
She remarked that, if the DOT did not act quickly enough, RTD could go
back to the Senate Commerce Committee.
Director Folska asked what type of transportation FTA Deputy Administrator
Williams would favor, since she did not like trains.
Ms. Doersch explained that Deputy Administrator Williams viewed rail as an
antiquated and expensive way to move people. She added that Deputy
Administrator Williams supported Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), platooning buses,
and automated buses and wanted to further explore technology.
Director Sisk asked, in terms of preparing for the next year, what the
agency’s talking points should be, considering the current uncertainty, how
RTD should make its points, and what staff and the Board should be thinking
about.
Ms. Doersch stated that, RTD should say thank you when it received the
last portion of its $1.03 billion Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) Grant.
She noted that for next year, depending on where the government was on
the infrastructure proposal, RTD could have a chance to influence that and
could get a final definition of BRT at the same time. She added that it would
also be an opportunity to show leadership and push RTD’s issues.
Mr. Dino noted that RTD may need a push with the help of the Colorado
delegation and hopefully the University of Colorado A Line, B Line, and G
Line would continue to go in the direction the Board expected. He said if it
needs a little push come march, it would be worth mentioning too.

Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. Doersch said that General Manager Genova weighed in with a letter
back in May and took a leadership role in saying that, through FasTracks,
local voters agreed to tax themselves to help pay for the project while still
having the largest new starts grant ever made. She said that local, private,
and government funds were all needed to fund projects such as FasTracks.

6.A

Director Sisk inquired as to who
Representative Polis about the north.

would

volunteer

to

meet

with

Mr. Dino stated that he could do it again.
Director Anderson stated that she was concerned that, if the tax exemption
for parking went away, RTD could lose its Eco Pass program and inquired if
that was a correct assumption.

Director Anderson asked if local government wanted to use both public and
private capital, what the difference would be between that and a P3.
Ms. Doersch explained that P3’s in the transportation sector are considered
to be design, build, finance, operate, and maintain (DBFOM) projects. She
said P3’s shift responsibility and risk over to the private sector partners, and
if they do not have any investment of their own in the game, the project is
not a P3.
Director Anderson stated that the President’s idea would be an investment
and then refunded with interest.
Ms. Doersh said that scenario would be more akin to a cash flow tool,
similar to issuing debt.
Committee Chair Walker asked if there were any disincentives for the private
sector to get involved in P3’s.
Ms. Doersch said that the House Bill had a bit of a disincentive because it
eliminated private activity bonds, which were tax exempt, and entities that
do not meet the public use standard.
Mr. Dino commented that he and his colleagues would like to thank the
Board for continuing the relationship with SPB and they looked forward to
supporting RTD for another year.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska commented that one of the most important things the Board did
every year was continuing education through Accelerate Colorado, which benefitted
the RTD Board and the Colorado delegation in Washington D.C.

Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. Doersch said that yes, it could go away. She said that, if an employer
could no longer write it off, it would be a disincentive.

6.A

E. Next Meeting Date - February 6, 2018
F. Adjourn

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:27 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 15

6.B

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, December 5, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C

Status
Remote
Absent

Arrived

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

6:31 PM
6:38 PM
6:34 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:35 PM
6:34 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Absent

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

6:33 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present

6:36 PM
6:38 PM

Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District K
Director, District H

Absent
Present

6:29 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:31 PM
6:30 PM

Packet Pg. 16

6.B

B. Recommended Actions

• Recommendation for On-Call Construction Services Contracts

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs, introduced Joytsna Vishwakarma, Senior Manager
and Chief Engineer, and Mitch Kuharski, Construction Project
Manager, to provide the background on the On Call
Construction Services Contract.
Ms. Vishwakarma explained that RTD has been using the on
call contractor for the last five years and had three companies
work on a number of projects throughout the districts. She
introduced Mitch Kuharski stating that he has managed these
contracts and worked closely with the on call contractors over
the last five years.
Mr. Kuharski explained that over the last five years 48 work
orders had been initiated and the work varied in cost from
$8,000 to $2 million, totaling over $24 million for the last 5
years of work. He added that the projects have assisted the
base group, facilities, light rail, civil structural, state of good
repairs, as well as of number of other areas. He stated that
having an on call contract keeps RTD projects on budget and
schedule and offers value to RTD to ensure completion of
projects throughout the agency. Mr. Kuharski added that the
on call contracts assist the Strategic Business Plan and the
APE by completing projects in the fiscal year that they are
proposed and funded. He stated that the on call contractors
provide the following benefits to RTD:

Ability to make emergency repairs quickly

Ability to deliver smaller projects efficiently

Shortened procurement time
Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award
contracts to Krische Construction, Gilmore Construction Corporation, HPM
Incorporated and T-Bone Construction Inc. for On-Call Construction Services
for one year, with four optional one-year extensions. The maximum
cumulative value of the four contracts, including all optional extensions will
not exceed $30 million.

6.B

Shortened construction duration, and better quality

Reduced public impact of projects
Mr. Kuharski stated that in September RTD advertised a
Request for Proposal (RFP) for supply/services for On-Call
Construction Services work, and that an evaluation team which
consisted of seven RTD staff members from procurement,
engineering, and civil rights met and selected the following four
firms were selected:
1.
Krische Construction
2.
Gilmore Construction Corporation (Certified DBE)
3.
HPM Incorporated
4.
T-Bone Construction Inc.
Mr. Kuharski explained that the contracts would be for general
construction including but not limited to grading, drainage,
utilities, paving, intersection improvements, rail repair, sitework, landscaping, small buildings, and building repairs.
Director Broom asked how the RTD decided between the five
agencies for a project.
Mr. Kuharski explained that RTD the decision would be based
on competitive bidding and expertise in the area of the
proposed project.
Director Menten asked if using Small Business Enterprise (SBE)
and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) drives up the
cost of projects.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that anytime work is sub
contracted out the cost is increased for each ,if you have a
sole source contractor thee reis less mark up for the project. A
lot of the projects developing the community and relationship
with a number of contractor. Track 13
Director Menten stated that the price goes up when using a
sub-contractor because a general contractor will add cushion
to the price.
Mr. Stopplecamp agreed, explaining that each firm wants a
profit and that overhead must be covered. Overseeing the
work and every time a contractor hires a sub each company
needs to cover overhead and profit for the work that is being
done or work that is being overseen.
Director Francone commented on the clear articulation of the
alternatives and that it is appreciated to understand the
information in order to make a sound decision on the
recommended action.
Director Anderson stated she would vote yes.
Packet Pg. 18

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)



6.B

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik,
Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Ernest Archuleta, Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
Lorraine Anderson

• Contract Award for the Regional Bus Rapid Transit Feasibility Study
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve a professional services contract award to Felsburg
Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for assistance in the preparation
of the Regional Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Feasibility Study for an amoun t
not to exceed $1,250,000. Funding for this contract is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brian Welch, Senior Manager Planning Technical Services,
explained that RTD issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) in
October 2017 for consultant services to assist with the
preparation of the Regional BRT Feasibility Study. The
RFP included a 15 percent Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise (DBE) goal. He stated that a committee
comprised of representatives from RTD, CDOT, and
DRCOG reviewed the proposals submitted by six teams:
AECOM; David Evans; Felsburg, Holt, & Ullevig (FHU); HDR;
Michael Baker; and the University of Wyoming – College of
Engineering and Applied Science. He added that the selection
committee short-listed two teams for interviews and
unanimously concluded that the team led by FHU had the
most relevant experience, including innovative approaches
to study preparation and BRT implementation, and are
recommending that the Board approve and authorize the
General Manager to negotiate a contract with FHU. Mr.
Welch stated that funding for this study is provided through
Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED.

6.B

$1million in DRCOG TIP funds and $250,000 in RTD local
funds.

Mr. Welch explained that NAMS concentrated on the area for
HWY 119 and Mobility Choice focused on how the agency
should consider the role of technology in transportation. He
added that this study is complimentary and parallel to these
studies and would incorporate information from all the studies.
Director Francone thanked Mr. Welch and the team for
articulating alternatives in a neutral manner and providing the
financial information regarding the study.
Director Broom asked, if the study proved that there were
seven or eight areas that qualified for the BRT, whether these
projects would compete with FasTracks.
Mr. Welch explained the key reason was to prioritize how they
will compliment to move people to FasTracks lines via a short
list of corridors that would then, with the Board’s discretion,
move to the next phase. He added that these were corridors
that were not slated for rail in the future.
Director Walker commented that many agencies are in favor of
BRT projects because they can boost mobility at a lower cost
and be completed in parallel with other agency projects.
Director Anderson stated that she would be supporting the
program because the BRT study showed responsibility to all
the other districts and planning for the future.
Director Mihalik stated that the first million was from DRCOG,
and asked if the $250,000 contribution from RTD would end
up being less.
Mr. Welch explained that, given the scope of work and the
internal cost estimate, that the contract will use the full
amount.

Packet Pg. 20

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska asked what was the difference between this
study and North Area Mobility Study (NAMS) and Mobility
Choice studies, and why the agency needed another study.

6.B

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 2]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik, Sisk,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten
Ernest Archuleta, Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
Lorraine Anderson

C. Updates

• Pass Program Study
Michael Washington, Transit Equity Manager, provided an update on the
Pass Program Working Group (PPWG). He explained that the task of the
group was to make recommendations for improvements to the pass
program, and that the working group was made up of a diverse group of
organizations. He added that the group has had eight meetings and has
looked at the issues with the current pass programs and has taken into
consideration information from the community regarding the updating of the
pass program. He explained that the working group has developed three
distinct options (Option B, Option C, & Option E) for pass programs and are
currently modeling those options for revenue and ridership impacts and have
also solicited feedback from Nonprofit Program participants via surveys and
engagement meetings. Mr. Washington stated that the PPWG based the
option on market segments that would fill the needs for business, colleges,
low income, and youth. He explained the three options stating that Option B
was bulk purchasing for any group, Option C included utilization based
prices mostly for businesses and colleges, and Option E continued with the
current model. He added that the PPWG were facilitating other ideas and
that each option included low income passes for families with $50,000 per
year income or less and 50% off fares. He stated that the preliminary
results showed that none of these options met the Strategic Business Plan
goals, the ridership gained would not offset the discounted price, cross
subsidization within pass programs was creating unfairness between
participants. He said some are not paying their fair share and some are
overpaying, and the attempt to right price pass programs and reduce
discounts posed a risk to ridership and revenue as those that experience an
increase in cost may choose to drop out of the program. He added that the
PPWG is on schedule to have a recommendation for first quarter of the
following.
Director Williams requested the date and location for the next PPWG
meeting.

Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED.

6.B

Mr. Washington stated that the meeting would be held on December 19,
2017 at the Hoffman Library, 1298 Peoria Street, Aurora at 1:00 – 4:00
p.m.
Director William asked if the recent tax issues regarding Eco Passes were
being considered in the PPWG.
Mr. Washington stated that this would be considered and did not impact the
developed options.

Mr. Washington explained that would be modeled and the results would be
presented.
Director Menten asked how much data from tapping has gone into the
PPWG data.
Mr. Washington explained that all the tap data that has been gathered would
be included.
Director Menten asked how many people were tapping and giving data.
Mr. Washington explained that the agency had not broken down the data in
that way but had used the taps required for this study.
Director Menten asked what type of pass or payment were used by groups
who were under or overcharged and asked who were in those groups.
Mr. Washington explained that it was not in one particular area or group and
that there were businesses that pay more and others that pay less.
Director Menten asked if the payment differences would be determined by
Service Level Areas.
Mr. Washington explained that this was broken down in the last report and
that he would send that report to the Board Office.
Director Walker asked if specific discounts created revenue loss.
Mr. Washington explained that all the discounts prevented revenue.
Director Francone asked if some of the organizations dropped out of the
PPWG, because they were not included on the list of participating
organizations.
Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Williams asked if a fixed rate option would be considered.

6.B

Mr. Washington stated that University of Colorado was participating and
that Jefferson County would provide feedback through the public
participation process instead of being part of the PPWG.
Director Francone asked how the 70% for a youth discounted pass was
determined.

Director Francone asked if the modeling data would be presented at the next
meeting and requested an explanation of utilization-based pricing and
insurance model pricing.
Mr. Washington explained that under the utilization-based pricing a customer
pays for what they use and would be billed on a monthly basis of trips taken
(Option C), and with the insurance model businesses would pay annually and
the option would allow for businesses to cross subsidize each other.
Director Francone asked who would verify low income participants.
Mr. Washington explained that RTD would not be responsible for verifying
means and that the agency would work with other agencies and
organizations to determine those qualifications, and that detail would need
to be worked out.
Director Tisdale stated that there was much more information on the RTD
website under PPWG including agendas, reports, and minutes from
meetings. He added that it was important that the PPWG maintain a clear
vision of the roles and what was originally proposed to do in the study.
Mr. Washington explained that when the PPWG released the preliminary
results it revealed that the modeling was not meeting the original goals and
guiding principles, and the working group was very well aware of meeting
those principles and guidelines. He added that he would like to discuss
concern with Director Tisdale in greater detail.
Director Tisdale agreed and stated that the PPWG had only included three
comparable transit agency patterns and would appreciate more consideration
of what other agencies do.
Director Folska asked when the study would be finished.

Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Washington explained that the PPWG attempted to balance the amount
that youth and families with youth would find feasible. He added that there
was not a lot of data regarding youth ridership and that the percentage
would be expected to change based on the modeling data.

6.B

Mr. Washington stated that it would be completed in the first quarter of the
following year (2018).
Director Folska asked when fare increases would come back to the Board for
approval.
Mr. Washington stated that the Board reviewed fare costs every three years
and that changes would be voted on beginning in 2019.

Mr. Washington explained that, when the number of rides verses the cost of
the passes were compared, some businesses were paying $100 per ride.
Director Folska commented that if the businesses encouraged their
employees to use the passes then that cost would come down. She added
that there were businesses that benefit from people using public transit and
that it would be in those businesses’ best interest to assist with subsidies to
lower the cost of passes.
Mr. Washington agreed but explained that the PPWG was not in the position
to work on proposals with organizations and businesses.
Director Folska asked if the PPWG considered groups of students should be
entitled to the same student or youth discount status.
Mr. Washington stated that this had been central to the student pass
discussions and that the student/youth must have proof of affiliation to an
organization in order to receive any pass benefit/discount.
Director Broom asked if the 70% discount was off of the full fare price and
what was the monetary value of that discount.
Mr. Washington explained that the discount was 70% off of the cash fare,
and the exact cost and monetary value would be determined by the
modeling.
Director Sisk asked if Option E was the only one that kept the Eco Pass.
Mr. Washington stated that it keeps the current version of the Eco Pass.
Director Sisk asked if the fixed income that came from colleges and other
organizations would be removed with the proposed options, and if the PPWG
was considering those finances and the impact of losing that income with
the implementation of a new pass program.
Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska asked for explanation of how groups were over paying.

6.B

Mr. Washington explained that the working group was still working through
those issues and was aware of what those programs do for the agency.

Chair Hoy stated that many committees have the issue that goals and ideas
change as a working group begins, but that RTD could not afford to give up
revenue and that there were agencies that do that want subsidized fares to
address low income issues. He added that RTD should not subsidize schools
as they are both government agencies. Chair Hoy stated that the nonprofit
program was limited to a maximum outlay of $6.8 million and RTD should
not subsidize greater than that amount.
Director Menten agreed with Chair Hoy.
Director Walker asked if there would be any cost savings with these options.
Mr. Washington stated that cost savings had not been determined.
Director Anderson commented that someone had to pay for transit, which is
a commodity, and that, if there are some social needs, they should be taken
care of by other organizations created to help those with needs. She added
that it was not RTD’s job to provide free transit.
Director Folska stated that whether people used public transit or not the
public benefitted by having it.
Director Williams asked if the 70% discount would benefit the schools.
Mr. Washington explained that the discount would be available to all youth
and organizations that purchased passes for youth that are 19 and under.
General Manger Genova commented the PPWG and RTD staff knew there
would be a lot of discussion on the issue pass program. He stated that the
high level recommendation must be fiscally sustainable and have
consensuses. He stated that the PPWG was committed to being open and
transparent, having a wide variety of stakeholders, and preserving upfront
revenue. Lastly, he stated that every three years’ rates and fares are
reviewed and that 2018 would be a year the Board would review RTD rates,
and the timing of the PPWG would tie in with this issue.

Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Sisk stated that it may be understood by the working group but it is
the Board’s decision and that money will undermine the study. He added
that he hoped the options provided take that income into consideration
before being brought to the Board.

6.B

Director Tisdale commented that the PPWG should not select only one
alternative to present and that there was a need to have several proposals in
order to be more productive.

• Transit Oriented Development

Unsolicited Proposal Procedure Objectives
Mr. Sirois stated that the procedure was on line for organizations that would
like to submit an unsolicited proposal. He explained the following objectives
of the procedures:
1.
Clarify 2015 Board Resolution on Unsolicited Proposals
2.
Create transparent process for internal and external stakeholders
3.
Strategically allocate staff time
4.
Maintain objectivity and fairness
TOD Assessment of Potential Joint Development Sites – Categorization
Mr. Sirois explained the following objectives for the categorization of
Potential Joint Development Sites and explained the different categories as
follows:
Prioritize analysis of stations and PnRs in order to:

Proactively plan for development

Document transit operations needs

Manage expectations of value capture potential

Strategically allocate staff time

Improve negotiating position with developers
Categories of Joint Potential Development Sites:

Long - Term Potential Sites or Sites with No Potential

Medium - Term Potential Sites

Sites to be Monitored

Highest Potential Sites
Mr. Sirois stated the last piece of the presentation would discuss the TOD
Evaluation piece and how to prioritize values. He explained that it was
determined that there are two categories. The first was direct value which
would be items that the agency gains value from, such as ridership or
revenue. The second was indirect values, which are things that RTD gains
value from that may not be immediately evident, such as jurisdictional
support or sustainable development. He added that the following were
guidelines that would be followed to during internal decision making on TOD
projects, and that first there are principles that every project would be
Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, of Transit Oriented Communities, p r e s e n t e d
t h e u p d a t e f o r t h e Transit Oriented Development (TOD) department. He
summarized the unsolicited proposal procedure, TOD site assessment, and
the proposed TOD value evaluation guidelines stating the following:

6.B

Principles: six standards all developers are expected to meet.
1.
The TOD project must be budget neutral or budget positive for RTD.
2.
The TOD project must be expected to increase ridership.
3.
Ground leases of RTD property are preferred over sales.
4.
The TOD project must reflect the Parking Guiding Principles (PGP).
5.
The TOD project must enhance safety and security.
6.
The TOD project must have jurisdictional support.
Factors - Eleven elements of a development project that will be considered
for every project; divided into Tier 1 and Tier 2.
Tier 1:
1.
Ground Lease/Land Sale
2.
Increased Ridership/Fare Revenues
3.
Replacement or New Facilities
4.
Outsourced Maintenance
5.
Jurisdictional Support
6.
Enhanced Operations
Tier 2:
1.
Improved Safety/Security
2.
Upgraded Rider Amenities/Access
3.
Community Facilities/Affordable Housing
4.
Sustainability
5.
Brand Image Enhancement
Director Francone commented that the presentation was well done.
Director Williams echoed Director Francone.
Director Tisdale commented that the presentation was an articulate wellpresented statement on how the agency should proceed.
Director Menten asked if the TOD department was aware of the initiative for
a ballot proposal that would limit growth in Colorado to 1%. She added that
there had been some proposed local limitation in Golden, Boulder, and
Lakewood that may be issued statewide.
Mr. Sirois stated that the TOD department has not been made aware of the
initiative.
Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

required to meet in order to have joint development or TOD at RTD stations;
and second there are factors, which are elements that would be measured
and reported to the board on about how each project was progressing. He
added the below summary of the guidelines:

6.B

Director Menten requested feedback as to how the initiative would impact
TOD at a later time.
Director Williams asked if, during the unsolicited projects proposal process,
the Board would hear all of the proposed projects.

Director Menten clarified that the proposed growth initiative was regarding a
1% limit to residential construction.

• First & Last Mile Study (Verbal/No back-up)
Paul DesRocher, Manager of Planning Coordination, introduced the issue of
the first and last mile study by asking the Board to consider the that much
of the public stated that they would use public transportation if it went
exactly where they needed to go. He explained that was the exact issue the
first and last mile study would examine and that public transit did not
always serve every trip. Mr. DesRocher stated that RTD was recently
awarded $200,000 from CDOT’s Funding Advancements for Surface
Transportation and Economic Recovery Act of 2009 (FASTER) program and
that RTD matched these funds to investigate a viable solution to the first
and last mile issue. He added that recently RTD issued a Request for
Information (RFI) from agencies that performed a Mobility on Demand study
and plan to incorporate that information to learn how those studies would
assist in expanding transit and add value to the RTD study. He commented
that there would be regular updates provided through committee meetings.
Director Menten asked when or how to find out about government
regulations that would block the first and last mile issue from being solved.
Mr. DesRocher explained that the study would take 12 months and that the
initial stages would be examining existing conditions and problems, and
would begin recommending solutions and updates to problems that were
discovered.
Director Francone stated that the first and last mile had always been an
issue and that she was anxious to see as the study progresses if there was a
solution.
General Manager Genova commented that the study would provide the
agency an opportunity to look at the issue from a system approach and
address it universally. He added that Panasonic held a kick-off project with
a demonstration of an autonomous shuttle that would to provide a link from
Packet Pg. 28

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Sirois explained that the process was created to weed out viable and
non-viable projects, and that the action by the board would be when the
agency entered into negotiation with a developer.

6.B

bus service on Tower Road to the station at 61st and Pena on University of
Colorado A Line, but he noted there were several regulatory hurdles and
testing before that autonomous shuttle would be fully operational. He
commented that this demonstration was one example of new technology
that would be used to address the first and last mile issues.
Director Walker commented that there would always be some part of the
population that would have a first and last mile issue.

Broom requested an update at the next meeting on the G Line testing and the
Public Utilities Commission (PUC).
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that there were two issues around the North Metro Center
Corridor National Western Stock Show Complex. He explained that the National
Western Center Citizen Advisory Committee requested a name change for the
future North Metro line station located at 48th and Brighton Boulevard, and they
would like it to be called National Western Center at Historical Area it currently was
slated to be called 48th and Brighton/National Western Stock Show Station. He
added that RTD was currently working with the City and County of Denver (CCD)
and stakeholders regarding possible alternatives while holding the current name.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained the second issue was that CCD was making
modifications to Brighton Boulevard around the new RTD station and that the
widening project would require CCD to acquire a strip of property that would
reduce RTD parking from 40 to below 30 spaces. He explained that the project
would help the traffic movements on Brighton Boulevard and into the stock show
facility. He added that RTD staff intended to present a plan for the sale of the
property and how to reconfigure the remaining parcel. Mr. Stopplecamp stated that
CCD was working on a long range master plan that included parking that would
negate RTD needs for parking in this area, and that the benefits of this agreement
to RTD would be less maintenance and capital costs.
General Manager Genova gave a brief update on the PUC stating that a pre-hearing
conference would be held on Friday, December 8th at 8:30 a.m. with the
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) who would preside over the RTD hearing, which
has not been scheduled. He said it was an open meeting that would set out the
process for the upcoming hearing and explain the schedule. He added that the
hearing was anticipated to be scheduled in January and that the following day RTD
would be filing a motion to grant testing for the G Line.
Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel, stated that a there was a 14-day period for
objections to a motion and explained that the G Line testing decision would not be
expected on Friday.
Director Francone asked Mr. Reed if there was an expected number of attendance
for the District N open house scheduled on December 13, 2017.
Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

D. Other Matters

6.B

Mr. Reed explained that there would be more information on the attendance and
the Mobile Lab Pilot Program early the following week.
Tisdale asked if there was an opportunity to lease the property to CCD for the
Brighten Boulevard project.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that CCD would be building a road and that the sale
would be best for the good of the area and the project.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 6, 2018
Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 5, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Williams adjourned the meeting at 8:33 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 30

6.C

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, December 12, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Absent
Present

Arrived
5:25 PM
5:12 PM
5:28 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Absent

5:31 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Absent
Absent

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:24 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:31 PM

Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:24 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Chair

Present

4:58 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D

Absent
Present
Present
Absent

5:17 PM
5:30 PM
5:02 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:02 PM

Packet Pg. 31

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tina Aragon, Michelle Brier, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Becker,
Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Nicole Carey, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Chris Deines,
Paul DesRocher, Kevin Diviness, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons,
Andrew Gale, Steve Gieske, David Genova, Bob Grado, Brian Iacono,
Anne-Marie Isaac-Heslop, Beverly Lindsay, Tim Lucero, Adrian Mabry,
Doug MacLeod, Brian Mathews, John McKay, Heather McKillop,
Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott
Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Jannette Scarpino, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Lisa Trujillo, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian
Welch, Dennis Yaklich,

Others Present:

Dr. William Gross, John Thompson, Susan Spry

B. State of the District Address - General Manager Genova

• 2017 State of the District
General Manager Genova presented his 2017 State of the District Address to
the Board. He introduced the members of the Senior Leadership Team and
the Executive Office and presented the following information:


Service summary
o ~3.6 million hours of service (annualized)
o 2.5 million bus service hours
o 250 thousand rail service hours
o 636 thousand Access-a-Ride service hours
o 126 thousand Call-n-Ride service hours
o 50 thousand hours of special service
o 140 local, 15 regional, 6 BRT routes
o 10,000 bus stops
o 7 light rail lines (58. 5 miles, 62 stations)
o 2 commuter rail lines (29 miles, 9 stations)
o 24 Call-n-Ride areas
o On pace for 100 million boardings
o 99.5% of all fixed route services, 99.9% of rail services
o Improved OTP Access-a-Ride from 95 to 96%
o 1026 fixed route buses
o 398 paratransit cutaway buses
o 172 light rail vehicles
o 66 commuter rail vehicles



Customer satisfaction
o A high satisfaction rating indicates RTD delivered those things that
mattered most for a customer - indicates high-quality experiences are
the norm for our customers (4.2 out of 5)

Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.C

6.C



Whether they used a bus, train, or a combination of RTD services,
customers indicate that they’ll trust RTD to meet their transportation
needs again in the future and that they would recommend RTD
services to others.

Agency Challenges
o University of Colorado A Line and G Line regulatory approval
o Completion of G Line testing
o Revenue service G Line
o Quiet zones
o N Line schedule
o Two contractor claims
o Bus and Rail operator shortage
o Mandating overtime
o Dropped bus runs

General Manager Genova noted that the starting wage for bus operators was
averaged $19.07 for the Denver metro area, as compared to RTD’s starting
wage, as of August 17, 2017, of $17.59. He stated he would continue the
presentation by stating three accomplishments, three goals, and three
challenges for each major operating component of the agency.


Bus Operations
Accomplishments
o Rebid and implementation of revised ADA paratransit service
provision resulting in improved on-time performance and reduction
of manually adjusted driver manifests
o Completed implementation of Interactive Voice Response (IVR)
system for Access-a-Ride to provide night-before reminder calls to
customers and “10 minutes away” service verification calls to
customers
Goals
o Implementation of Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) all-electric BYD
Mall Shuttle Bus fleet
o Redesigned interior seating configuration of new fixed-route buses
to better accommodate customers using mobility devices
o Provision of over 99% of scheduled fixed route bus service
Challenges
o Meet staffing needs in all areas of operations to respond to
changing service needs, demographic trends and succession
planning needs
o Improve service delivery to meet growing mobility needs and
improve on-time performance while staying within constrained
financial and human resources
Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o

6.C

o

Capital Programs
Accomplishments
o Placed the R Line into service and completed the Civic Center
Renovation
o Continued to work with CCD and the Downtown Stakeholders
on developing solutions for the 16th Street Mall
o Implemented state of good repair projects for the existing light
rail corridors, bus system and facilities as outlined in the SBP
Goals
o Place the G Line in service and institute Quiet Zones on the
commuter rail lines
o Continue to work with CCD and the Downtown Stakeholders
on developing solutions for the 16th Street Mall and start the
reconstruction of the Mall
o Continue to implement state of good repair projects for the
existing light rail corridors, bus system and facilities as
outlined in the current SBP
Challenges
o Address project management challenges of managing all
projects of our capital program safely, within budget, onschedule and with high quality
o Successfully work with stakeholders to meet their
expectations while maintaining the defined scope, schedule
and budget of the projects
o Transition from management of a large-scale capital
construction program to a maintenance program for a large
multimodal transit infrastructure in a state of good repair



Communications
Accomplishments
o Release of new RTD Trip Planner on the website and for
internal users – One trip planner that displays the same results
for both Customer Care and external users
o Won 6 First Place APTA AdWheel Awards and the Grand Prize
for the “Train to the Plane” campaign
o Reached all-time high of 22,700 followers on Twitter with 8.5
million impressions, 23,000 likes on Facebook with 2.3 million
impressions, and 95,000 email subscribers

Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)



Address changing technology and its potential for integration into
the public transit/mobility service offering

Goals
o Use the RTD Mobile Lab internally and externally to establish
our commitment to continued communication of information,
as well as a way to build consensus on key topics and
evaluate progress of RTD initiatives
o Continue to provide our public with the most current and upto-date information regarding RTD services and programs,
FasTracks and RTD base construction projects
o To ensure that RTD is well represented at all levels of
government – federal, state, local – as well as at stakeholder
meetings and to keep the RTD Board of Directors and RTD
staff apprised of pertinent information
Challenges
o G and N line messaging and timeframe for opening
o Effectively market enhanced system with limited budget and
resources and staff, including exploring relevant trades,
partnerships and low-cost alternatives
o Merging the outdated and unsupportable FasTracks website
into main RTD website


Finance & Admin
Accomplishments
o MyRide portal launched in May
o Real Time predictions for Light Rail went live in August
o Mobile Ticketing went live in November (2 months ahead of
schedule)
o Dissolution of DUSPA
o Did 6 refinancings in 2017 which saved $192 million between
2018 and 2040
Goals
o Ratification of the 2018-2021 Collective Bargaining
Agreement
o Improve recruitment and retention of bus and light rail
operators
o Implementation of the Pass Working Group recommendations
and prepare for fare changes January 1, 2019
o ERP Project - Business process review, hiring of contractor,
and begin implementation of budgeting portion of the project
o Kronos Implementation (Replacement of our Time and
Attendance) – Summer 2018
Challenges
o Providing transit service and maintaining RTD assets in a state
of good repair in an uncertain funding environment
o Staffing RTD at an acceptable level with quality candidates
Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.C

6.C

o


Retention and/or knowledge transfer of existing employees
Mitigating impact from pending Federal legislation regarding
the refunding of tax exempt bonds
Meeting our 1.2x debt service coverage

General Counsel
Accomplishments
o Effectively managed unprecedented legal challenges and
commitments including two major construction disputes,
extensive PUC filings, and multiple refinancings
o Met all goals from 2017 including:
 Completing new procedures and terms for technology
contracts
 Finishing drafting, and beginning implementation of a
comprehensive 5-year plan to make RTD proactive and
even transformational in information governance
 Establishing new CORA, scanning, accident reporting, and
policy/procedure processes
o Groundbreaking diversity and mentoring initiatives (Colorado
Attorney Mentoring Program, and RTD being the first
governmental entity in the country to adopt diversity measures
in legal services contracting recommended by the American
Bar Association)
Goals
o Effectively manage Eagle and North Metro regulatory and
contractual matters, and any legal issues relating to collective
bargaining, while also providing all other usual legal services
(RTD Law)
o Implement best practices for analysis and reporting of liability
and workers’ compensation claim data, to improve employee
safety and reduce exposure and costs (Risk Management
Division)
o Lead RTD in completing the transition from management
directives to easily searchable, comprehensive policies and
procedures as part of our 5-year plan for information
governance; and in implementing effective contingency plans
and insurance strategies for risk management (Information
Governance & Management Division)
Challenges
o Extremely complex, data-intensive Eagle and North Metro
regulatory and contractual matters and litigation, together with
collective bargaining work, while at same time implementing
new matter management and e-discovery procedures (RTD
Law)
Packet Pg. 36

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o
o

6.C

o



Continuing to move RTD forward toward effective, integrated
information governance policies and procedures, including
increased emphasis on training (Information Governance &
Management Division)
Increasing numbers of liability claims subject to much higher
dollar limits, resulting in higher risks and need for additional
investigation and risk management prior to claim closure (Risk
Management Division)

Planning
Accomplishments
o Convened the Pass Program Working Group and made
significant progress towards a comprehensive evaluation of
RTD’s pass programs
o Awarded contract and initiated the process for environmental
review and Preliminary Engineering for arterial BRT options on
State Highway 119 between Boulder and Longmont
o Issued Request for Proposals (RFP), selected consultant, and
initiated work for the District-wide Regional BRT Feasibility
Study
Goals
o Obtain all agency approvals for 15L route improvements
project and issue RFP for construction (with Capital Programs)
o Develop initial list of RTD’s highest priority corridors for BRT
as part of the District-wide Regional BRT Feasibility Study
o Create Departmental process maps for all core business
processes to support identification of opportunities for
continuous improvement and innovation
Challenges
o Work to implement internal improvements targeted at New
Employee Recruitment and Retention (especially Operators and
Mechanics) with potential for significant improvements in
process and cost savings
o
Manage stakeholder expectations for outcomes related to
the following planning efforts: 16th Street Mall, First and Last
Mile Study, Pass Program Working Group, Denver Moves
Transit (Denver) & Colfax Corridor Connections (Denver)
o Achieve RTD goals and objectives for the Mobility Choice
Blueprint through a transparent and open process



Rail Operations
Accomplishments
o Rebuilt the aging infrastructure with full replacement of NB
Speer Grade Crossing, replacement of compromised OCS
Packet Pg. 37

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o

6.C

o

Goals
o Appropriately staff all Rail Operation divisions to ensure
operation and maintenance of the existing system and support
expansion of the new L-Line and SERE rail corridors
o Host the APTA International Rail Rodeo
o Receive delivery of twenty-nine LRVs and commission
successfully
o Complete system upgrades on selected system infrastructure
elements to assure maximum operational safety, efficiency and
on-time service delivery
o Begin the mobilization of the N Line operations team and
requirements
Challenges
o Continue LRV State of Good Repair vehicle overhaul project,
ADA retrofit and targeted track and system rehabilitation work
in downtown Denver
o Recruit, train and retain the additional rail vehicle operators
necessary to operate the existing corridors and also support
the future corridors
o Continue to obtain funding for State of Good Repair
rehabilitation work for the aging infrastructure


Safety, Security, and Asset Management
Accomplishments
o Worked closely with PUC to develop new FTA Regulated State
Safety Oversight Program
o Installed Access control card readers in elevators and
stairwells, front entry turnstile and upgraded front and HR
division doors for added security and safety at Blake Street
offices
o Completed Asset Management System Gap Analysis – 1st
step towards ISO 55001 Certification
o Developed Safety Concern Reporting, Safety Hotline and
Safety email to provide multiple avenues for employees to
report Safety Concerns
Goals
o Implement SMS Policy and Hazard/Risk Management Systems
Packet Pg. 38

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o

insulators and worn wire segments for State of Good Repair
rehabilitation
Completed integration testing and training to successfully open
the I-225 (R-Line) corridor
Implementation of the Roadway Worker Protection System
(ProTran) and the Advanced Red Signal Warning System

6.C

o

Accomplish all milestones for 2018 Asset Management
System roadmap to achieve ISO 55001 certification
Continue to provide law enforcement and security services
throughout the District

Challenges
o Capture of data across multiple RTD databases for hazard
management, OJI and Liability information, accident and
incident information and security data
o Delays in FTA Regulation issuance that will provide final
guidance on SMS framework
o Develop systems that allow for ease of safety reporting and
closed loop feedback to represented employees
Executive Office
 Civil Rights
Accomplishments
o FTA Triennial Review - the EEO Program and the DBE Program
were recognized as model programs and acknowledged for
best practices in the transportation industry
o Launched first Colorado Small Business Collaboration
Conference (RTD, CDOT, CCD)
 Over 300 attendees, workshops and education for small,
disadvantaged, minority and women owned businesses.
Additionally, RTD coordinated and hosted the Small
Business Breakfast of Champions to recognize the prime
contractors, and small, minority, disadvantaged and
women-owned businesses that participated on the
FasTracks projects throughout the region - $1 billion of
$5.6 billion FasTracks to DBE/SBEs
o Propelled several community partnerships and initiatives to
promote an inclusive and responsive environment
 Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities
 WIN-Prenuer Program which supports the development to
start their own businesses
 Partnering with the USDOT to broaden the horizons of
young women to explore careers in the transportation
industry
Goals
o Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Office and the
American’s with Disabilities Act (ADA) Office will implement
training for each RTD employee in an effort to enhance basic
awareness and understanding of policies and procedures for
EEO and ADA
Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o

6.C

o

The Civil Rights Division will create an external Publication for
our community resource partners, associations and small
businesses
The Civil Rights Division will develop and implement a diversity
class at RTD which will be required for all RTD employees

Challenges
o As we continue to implement and improve the ADA Complaint
processes a focus on documentation, monitoring, interviewing,
investigating, and auditing of these complaints will be critical
to ensure the consistency and resolution of all complaints
o The WIN Program will begin transitioning from a construction
focused community workforce development training program
for RTD FasTracks projects to assisting, and developing
training programs and initiatives to support RTD’s internal
recruitment needs, retention and outreach efforts


Audit
Accomplishments
o On track to complete 2017 Annual Audit Plan
o Several audits with agreed upon recommendations will
improve RTD’s systems, policies, and procedures significantly
o Several additional skills sets added to Audit Staff this year
including CISA (Certified Information Systems Auditor) and
ACFE (Certified Fraud Examiner)
Goals
o Complete Annual Audit Plan 2018
o Improved relationship with Senior Leadership in order to
acquire responses to Audit in a timely manner and encourage
implementation of agreed recommendations
o Plan audits to achieve a wider coverage of RTD’s systems,
policies, and procedures
Challenges
o Completing the 2018 audit plan with limited resources
o Added contract funding in 2018 budget
o 2 interns



Materials Management
Accomplishments
o Solicited and awarded 4,884 Purchase Orders or Contracts
totaling $160,647,287
o Received $298,288 revenue from public auction of surplus
and obsolete District property
Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o

6.C

o

Achieved a 1.17% District wide Stock out level (Performance
Measure Goal is 1.5%)

Challenges
o Maintain District wide stock out level below 1.5%
o Implementation of Inventory Forecasting Software
o Continue to monitor diesel fuel futures pricing and make
recommendations to achieve budget certainty at competitive
market rates
The General Manager also presented the following strategic goals and
district-wide challenges and the agency’s vision statement:
2018 Strategic Goals
 Board adopted goals for 2018
 Fiscal Sustainability
 Workforce and Human Capital
 Asset Management/State of Good Repair
 2018 Board adopted budget, SBP and APE based on these strategic
goals
District-wide Challenges
 Fiscal sustainability
 Workforce
 Wages/CBA/trusts
 State of Good Repair (funding)
 Aging bus facilities
 New regulations (safety)
 Identifying funding to complete FasTracks.
 G line opening
 Plus other tangible challenges presented at beginning of presentation
Vision – Convergence
 Safety culture
 Asset Management/State of Good Repair
 Continuous improvement
 Data driven decision making
 Enterprise-based risk management
Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Goals
o Continue to award and administer contracts to support RTD
Base System and FasTracks
o Maintain District wide Stock out level below 1.5%
o Successful implementation of a new Inventory Forecasting
Software

6.C






Comprehensive Operational Analysis -> System Optimization Plan
Technology – MOD – MaaS – TaaS
Fiscal sustainability
Optimization and maximizing investment

General State of the RTD District
 Great team of RTD employees
 Safety, service and reliability remain as our core values
 Agency continues to perform at a high level meeting over 80% of
performance measures
 Operating within budget, on time, meeting goals, received national
recognition/awards
 Financially stable by managing competing priorities
 Transparent, collaborative, partner
 Continued focus on continuous improvement and innovation
 Positioned well to continue to meet goals and deliver service
Director Williams asked if the General Manager had given the information in
the State of the District address to the press during a recent tour.
General Manager Genova said that he had not and had focused on the
reopening of Civic Center Station but noted that he would make his
information widely available.
Director Williams said she did not see where the presentation showed what
happened when the agency experienced dropped routes.
General Manager Genova referred Director Williams to a slide that showed,
despite dropped routes, the agency provided 99.5% of bus services and
99.9% of rail services.
Director Williams said the agency should tout those figures more often.
Director Anderson congratulated the General Manager and staff and said she
was always proud to be associated with RTD. She noted the restructured
bus service network as a result of the opening of the G Line. She also
congratulated staff on recent refinancing efforts, which would save the
agency $192 million.
Director Lubow said she was surprised to see that RTD’s starting salary was
lower than average and asked whether companies with higher starting
salaries experienced fewer problems.

Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The General Manager summarized the State of the District as follows:

6.C

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, said that the collective bargaining agreement (CBA)
required 55% straight shifts and that, as of the January 2017 run board, the
agency was at 57%. He noted that operators were offered monetary
incentives to operate split shifts and that, as a result, the agency itself was
incentivized to reduce the number of split shifts.
General Manager Genova said that the agency was also trying to reduce the
duration of split shifts and noted that RTD realized the importance of wages
and wanted to be market-competitive for wages, benefits, and quality of life
considerations.
Director Lubow said she was intrigued by the fact that there were bus
organizations that did not share RTD’s problems.
General Manager Genova noted that those organizations were not transit
agencies and that RTD was in the middle of the pack nationally.
Mr. Abel noted that school systems were scrambling for bus operators in
Denver and that, across the industry, drivers and maintainers were in
demand.
Director Lubow said that she did not see RTD attempting to increase the
proportion of people in the district who used transit as opposed to personal
vehicles. She stated that increasing that proportion would keep the agency
relevant and would urge to such an initiative be included in future planning.
Director Tisdale said General Manager Genova had given a presentation of
the good, the bad, and the ugly and noted there were ugly elements the
agency had to face. Regarding the Workplace Initiative Now (WIN) program,
he said the driver shortage issue kept coming up and that he had confidence
in the community college system to work with RTD to create a workforce
pipeline.
Director Archuleta asked the General Manager to explain the problems with
the N Line.
General Manager Genova invited Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, to respond.
Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova said that things other than salary came into play in
regards to employee retention. He said that staff had not gathered
information on recruiting from the Employers Council but said that RTD was
unique because of its split shifts and report times. He said the agency had
successfully reduced split shifts through schedule changes.

6.C

Mr. Stopplecamp said that the issue was contractual and not financial and
had to do with coordination between the contractor and third parties,
including Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF), the Stock Show, and the
City of Thornton. He said the parties were communicating, sharing plans,
and moving forward. He said the line was scheduled to be turned over to
RTD in 2019.

Mr. Stopplecamp said there were stairs to the ground on the bridge itself
and noted that the agency worked with nearby property owners to secure
emergency services pathways. He said the agency’s preferred method would
be to use a rescue train to pull a stranded train off the bridge in the event of
a power outage.
Director Archuleta asked when the line would open.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that the line would be handed over in 2019 and that
the agency would work as quickly as possible to get it open.
Chair Hoy noted that the Colorado chapter of the American Public Works
Association Colorado had awarded Westminster Station the Project of the
Year, which he said was a big accolade.
General Manager Genova said he had seen mention of the award but did not
have more information.
Chair Hoy stated that he was very pleased with the cost, quick rollout, and
operation of the mobile ticketing application and said that people were happy
with it.
Director Folska agreed. She noted that the Art-n-Transit program had been
featured on a public television program and asked whether a link to the
program was posted on the RTD website.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, said the link
was posted and that the agency had sent out social media reminders.
Director Folska thanked staff for their ongoing efforts to hire persons with
disabilities, particularly in the Customer Care center. She said she had
received positive feedback from people saying they were pleased they were
being hired. Regarding the International Train Roadeo in June 2018, she
asked whether the agency planned to meet with representatives from
Japanese rail agencies. She noted that the Shinkansen bullet train had not
experienced an accident in over 50 years of operation.
Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Archuleta asked whether the agency had devised a way to rescue
stranded passengers from the Skyway bridge.

6.C

Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety,
Security, and Asset Management, agreed that transit agencies in the region
were leaders and that many of their safety procedures had been adopted all
over the world. He noted that APTA was in the process of adopting the
practice of pointing and calling, where operators point to and call out the
color of signs, speed limits, etc.
Director Broom noted that Japanese railroads did not have grade crossings,
which helped to increase safety. He noted that bus ridership was down and
asked whether the decline was leveling off or increasing and what the
agency should do to rectify the problem.
General Manager Genova noted that the decline in ridership was a national
trend in the industry. He noted that some agencies were down significantly
but said that the impact to RTD was low or moderate in comparison. He said
that the decline in ridership was one of five areas the new APTA chair was
reviewing. He stated that people had choices due to low gasoline prices and
a good economy and chose not to ride buses. He said that transportation
network companies (TNCs) contributed to the ridership decline but said the
agency could not tell how much market share RTD had lost to them.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of
Finance and Administration, said that the agency had seen movement of
passengers from bus to rail, which was accounted for in planning.
General Manager Genova said that the industry nationwide had witnessed a
decline in bus ridership to other modes of transportation.
Director Solano said that the agency was not talking about transit-oriented
development (TOD).
General Manager Genova said that the agency was still very much involved
with TOD and had recently presented information on plans to analyze
potential TOD projects going forward.
Director Menten said that TNCs do affect RTD but also fill a need and offer
quick, inexpensive service.
Ms. McKillop introduced Andrew Gale, the new Senior Manager of Human
Resources.
Packet Pg. 45

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova noted that rail agencies in southeast Asia had
developed proficiencies in operations and safety and noted that the
American Public Transportation Association (APTA) had sent a number of
missions to the region to learn about their operations.

6.C

C. Recommended Actions

• 2018 Audit Charter
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approves the attached 2018 Audit Charter.
Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.
Discussion: Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Internal Audit Manager, said that the
audit charter formalized the purpose, authority, and responsibility of the
agency’s auditors. She said that the professional body that governs auditors
typically updated only portions of audit best practices guidelines each year.
She said that this year the body had sent out a fully updated and
standardized guide, which she said she was happy with.
Director Folska said she would support the motion.
Director Menten asked whether the agency would need to approve the
charter on an annual basis.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said that the auditors typically updated the charter
annually and that any changes to the audit standards would require Board
approval.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 0]
SECONDER: Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
AYES:
Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Chuck Sisk
AWAY:
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Annual Audit Plan 2018
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2018.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Packet Pg. 46

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Motion:

6.C

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Director Broom said that 40% of audit hours came from contract audit hours
from outside the agency. He asked how many hours would be spent
managing the outside auditor and whether the audits assigned to the outside
auditor would be simple.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said that having the outside auditor would allow her to
have more time to manage internal auditing. She said that there was more
audit work than the auditors could perform and that having the outside
auditor meant that she could manage the work the auditors were doing. She
noted that she would be able to use the outside auditor for specific tasks,
such as IT audits, which would give the internal auditors more time to look
at things like the purchasing card audit.
Director Menten asked about the progress of the Access-a-Ride and Call-nRide audits.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said that the planning was completed and that the field
work had begun. She said the auditors were doing an analysis of vehicles
and the number of passengers per vehicle. She said that there was still a lot
of work to do but that it was going well.
Regarding the outside auditor, Director Menten asked whether the person
would be an experienced auditor or an intern.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said that she had one intern currently and expected
another to begin in January 2018, with each working 20 hours per week.
She said the other auditors added value but also needed managing.

Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Discussion: Ms. Isaac-Heslop said that audit had received few
contributions to the audit list from outside of the auditors’ office in 2017.
She said that in previous years the Board, the Senior Leadership Team (SLT),
and others had contributed. She noted that additional funding would allow
the number of audits to increase and that the auditors would be reviewing
purchasing cards, spending, payroll, lobbying contracts, performance
measures, travel training, entertainment expenses, workers’ compensation,
IT controls and assets, cybersecurity, and disaster recovery.

6.C

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone, Chuck
Sisk

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $4.664
million from the Operating Reserve to the Planning base system expense
grant project budget, effective January 1, 2018, to allow for the
completion of grant-funded projects that will not be completed in 2017.
The Operating Reserve will be replenished in the 2018 Amended Budget
with the funds that were not spent on these projects in 2017.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion: Ms. McKillop said that several carryforward projects were
missed during the preparation of the budget. She noted the projects would
not be completed in 2017 and that funds were available for the projects.
Director Folska asked Ms. McKillop to describe the projects that were
overlooked.
Ms. McKillop said that six of projects were related to money from the
STAMP program, under which RTD passed funds to local entities, and the
others were for the BRT 119 and BRT system study.
Director Folska stated those programs had already been approved.
Ms. McKillop said yes and noted that these programs would have been
caught if the budgeting procedure had been done properly.

Packet Pg. 48

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Budget Transfer for Planning Grant Projects

6.C

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone, Chuck
Sisk

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt updated 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures
to include measures for ridership, fare revenue, and total operating revenue.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion: Ms. McKillop noted that the Board had previously adopted the
2018 performance measures, but she stated that the Board must vote on
three additional measures each year following the adoption of the budget.
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, said
the performance measures in question were 6.2, regarding overall ridership
increase, and 6.3 regarding increased fare revenue and operating revenue.
Director Williams said she had a hard time agreeing with the recommended
action, because the Board had just heard a report saying that ridership was
decreasing, and she noted that fares would not be increased in 2018.
Ms. Scarpino said the performance measures dealt with revenue ridership,
which she said was a difficult number to forecast. She said the performance
measures had increased because of the anticipated opening of the G Line
and the continued ridership of the G Line. She said that staff was fairly
comfortable with their projections and would revisit the performance
measures in the amended budget.
Director Folska said she would support the recommended action.
Director Menten shared Director Williams’ concerns. She said that she had
seen a decreasing trend in boardings and had expressed her concerns with
Ms. McKillop, but she noted the performance measures could be adjusted

Packet Pg. 49

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures

6.C

later on. She noted that people were using alternative means of
transportation.
Ms. McKillop reiterated that the performance measures were based upon the
G Line opening and said that the measures did not anticipate an increase in
Base system ridership.

Director Anderson noted the pent up ridership demand in Arvada and stated
her community had already built TOD.
Chair Hoy asked for the estimated ridership of the G Line, and Ms. McKillop
said that she would provide those figures to the Board.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 1]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker
Kate Williams
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone, Chuck
Sisk

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

D. Updates

• October 2017 Monthly Financials
Doug MacLeod, Controller, stated that his report was half green, indicating
positive numbers, and half red, indicating negative numbers. He said the red
numbers were mostly due to declining ridership. He said the agency was
doing better than expected in relation to sales and use tax revenues. He
stated the agency anticipated lower revenues, largely, due to the loss of
marijuana sales tax revenue but in fact the opposite happened. He stated
that revenues were 1.8% above budget in June and 2.7% above in October,
yielding an additional $13 million. He noted that revenues from hotels and
restaurants lead the way in increases, possibly due to low unemployment,
and that car sales were flat. He stated that internet tax revenues doubled in
October, from a monthly average of $600,000 to $1.3 million in October.
He said that revenue bus ridership was down and light rail ridership was up
because of the R Line but flat year over year. He said that fare revenue year
over year increased 5.4%. He noted revenue at ticket vending machines
(TVMs) was up significantly, largely to University of Colorado A Line
ridership, and that bus fare box revenue was down slightly. He stated that
Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow asked whether the 3.4% increase in ridership was entirely
due to increased rail ridership, and Ms. Scarpino responded that was correct.

6.C

sales of passes were flat year over year. He stated that revenues from
mobile ticketing would show up in the monthly financial statements starting
in November 2017.
Director Tisdale asked whether tax revenues would have been even higher if
the marijuana sales tax had not been repealed.

Ms. McKillop stated that the budget forecast called for $6 million in
marijuana sales tax revenue in 2017, though the projected amount of overall
marijuana sales was increasing.
Director Williams said that RTD’s service was made up of 10% rail services
and 90% bus services. She said that bus ridership was not increasing and
stated that, if the agency wanted to remain in the positive, rail usage would
have to increase tenfold to compensate for bus ridership losses.
Ms. McKillop said that people were migrating to rail for regional and airport
services, which were more expensive than local service. She said that,
assuming the G Line opened in early 2018, the agency would see additional
regional fare sales and transfers at Denver Union Station for service to the
airport. She said that fare revenue would increase even though ridership
would not.
Director Lubow asked Mr. MacLeod to explain year-over-year decline in
ridership of 9.3% for the month of October.
Mr. MacLeod said he would look into it but suggested the decline may have
to do with projections that were based upon the G Line opening in 2017.
Mr. Abel said that the agency had been following a strategy of removing bus
service and replacing it with rail service. He said the agency should
participate G Line and overall FasTracks ridership to increase, though a
decrease in bus ridership should be expected as well, due to the elimination
of bus lanes precipitated by the G Line opening. As for the October decline,
he posited the drop could be the result of the agency’s new ridership count
methodology.
Director Menten asked whether ridership had increased on the R Line.
Mr. Abel said that the R Line ridership was well below projections and said
he would review the boardings per hour.
Packet Pg. 51

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. MacLeod agreed but noted that certain retailers were still collecting
marijuana taxes. He said that vendors had submitted $114,000 from
recreational marijuana sales and $200,000 from medical marijuana sales in
October.

6.C

Director Menten asked whether Aurora had stepped up their advertising of
the R Line.
General Manager Genova said that he and Mr. Reed had met with leaders
from Aurora to discuss how to message and market the R Line. He said the
group put together a list of joint activities.

Ms. McKillop said that the agency needed to rely on projections and stated
that some of the agency’s assumptions for 2018 were based on the opening
of the G Line. She said that adjustments could be made later on.
Director Williams noted that the agency had made adjustments based on the
change in the CU Leeds forecast and that she did not want to see the
agency continue to overproject.
Ms. McKillop said that projections are only estimates and that the agency
never hits them but would continue to review the ridership model.
Director Tisdale said that he had a conversation with the Director of
Communications from Aurora regarding the city’s promotion of the R Line
via the city’s public information television channel.
Director Folska asked whether ridership projections should have been
reduced once it was known that the G Line would not open on time.
Ms. McKillop said that the agency’s practice has been to adjust numbers
during budget time.
Director Folska suggested that this discussion be considered during the
future opening of the N Line. She also asked whether City Aurora City
Planner Mac Callison was included in the conversation regarding the
marketing of the R Line.
General Manager Genova said he was involved in the conversation.
Director Folska asked whether the agency should build a broader coalition,
with the Aurora Economic Development Council, the Denver Regional
Council of Governments (DRCOG), and others.
General Manager Genova said that the agency was trying to reach out to all
stakeholders. He noted that 2,200 residential units were scheduled to open
along the R Line and said that communications could go directly to the
residents.
Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Williams asked whether part of the agency’s problem was basing its
actions off of projections.

6.C

E. Next Meeting Date - January 23, 2018
F. Adjourn

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:05 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 53

6.D

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, December 12, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 8:11 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent

Arrived
8:09 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

8:11 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Remote

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Absent

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

8:10 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:08 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

8:10 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Absent
Absent
Present

8:08 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Absent
Present

8:10 PM
8:10 PM
Packet Pg. 54

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tina Aragon, Michelle Brier, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Becker,
Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Nicole Carey, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Chris Deines,
Paul DesRocher, Kevin Diviness, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons,
Andrew Gale, Steve Gieske, David Genova, Bob Grado, Brian Iacono,
Anne-Marie Isaac-Heslop, Beverly Lindsay, Tim Lucero, Adrian Mabry,
Doug MacLeod, Brian Mathews, John McKay, Heather McKillop,
Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott
Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Jannette Scarpino, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Lisa Trujillo, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian
Welch, Dennis Yaklich,

Others Present:

Dr. William Gross, John Thompson, Susan Spry

B. Recommended Actions

• Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 60 - 40' Transit Buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to exercise the contract option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig
LLC. for the purchase of 60 additional 40’ transit buses and associated
spare components in an amount not to exceed $26,350,000.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19th
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations, was joined by Steve
Gieske, General Superintendent of Maintenance. Mr. Abel
stated that buses identified in the recommended action were
part of a routine replacement of rolling stock. He said that the
agency was in the last year of an existing purchasing contract
in the Strategic Budget Plan, which the Board adopted in
October 2017, and that the vehicles would replace older 30foot and 40-foot buses as the agency transitioned to more 40foot vehicles in the bus fleet.
Director Broom asked about the delivery schedule for the
vehicles.
Mr. Gieske said that the manufacturer, Gillig, would produce
five buses per week from its plant in California.
Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D

Mr. Abel said that RTD has been active in the Volkswagen
(VW) settlement and that final rulemaking on the settlement
was in its final stages. He said the VW settlement money
would provide the difference between the cost of diesel and
electric buses, with the potential for additional monetary
incentive. He said the Board should expect staff to present
proposals for electric buses purchases in the future.
Director Folska said she supported the motion.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Francone, Sisk, Solano
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• 5311 Funding Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via
Mobility Services and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial
support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for
Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements
are for calendar year 2018 and for amounts not to exceed $379,677.00 for
Boulder County, $373,346.00 for Adams County and $115,679.00 for
Jefferson County.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel introduced Brian Matthews, Manager of Special
Services, and said that this recommended action followed
current practice. He stated that years ago the Federal Transit
Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow noted that the buses were equipped with clean
diesel engines. She asked when the agency would envision
transitioning to electric vehicles.

6.D

Director Lubow asked whether the agency was putting in
some of its own money.
Mr. Abel said that the agency received money as a result of
those non-urbanized areas not receiving money and that the
areas were receiving the same amount of money from RTD
they would have received from the federal government.
Director Mihalik added that in Douglas County the funding
supported areas that were outside of the district.
Mr. Abel stated the county received the funding to support the
rural and non-urbanized service the county provided.
Director Folska said she supported the motion.
Chair Hoy asked whether RTD would receive the same amount
or less money if Longmont did not receive its share.
Mr. Abel said that RTD essentially received the same amount.
Chair Hoy asked how RTD would know how much the local
jurisdictions should have received from the FTA.
Mrs. Abel said that RTD received the same amount the
grantees would have received as of the last year before
entering into the funding agreement with RTD, plus an amount
adjusted to account for the change in the area consumer price
index.

Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Administration (FTA) offered a grant program to provide
funding for transit in non-urbanized areas. He noted that over
time certain rural areas that received FTA funding were
subsumed into the RTD urbanized area, and RTD agreed in
essence to receive and pass along to those areas the funding
they would have received from the FTA. He said the
recommended action authorized the General Manager to
execute contracts to disburse the funding. He said the
formerly non-urbanized areas included the City of Longmont
and portions of Douglas and Jefferson Counties.

6.D

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Francone, Sisk, Solano
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement
with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of
the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of
Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and
residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for an
amount not to exceed $1,430,742.00.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel explained that RTD provided money for the Boulder
Hop line. He said that Boulder and the University of Colorado
Boulder were the contractors for the line. He said that the
funding supported the level of service that RTD would have
provided if the other funding partners were not participating.
Director Lubow asked if the buses were RTD-branded.
Mr. Abel said the buses are branded as “the Hop”. He said the
service was acknowledged as a partnership between RTD and
Boulder. He noted that RTD participates in service level
decisions and that the service conforms to RTD’s fare
structure. He stated that Via Mobility was responsible for
hiring bus operators.
Director Lubow asked whether the agency considered this an
RTD route.

Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• City of Boulder Hop Funding Agreement

6.D

Mr. Matthews said the route was in the trip planner. He stated
that the Hop service follows RTD procedures, though RTD was
not responsible for its oversight.

Mr. Abel said that the Anschutz campus administrators asked
RTD to reroute the R Line corridor away from campus, as the
line was initially slated to run down Montview Boulevard. In
order to accommodate their request, RTD asked the Anschutz
administrators to provide a circulator bus to shuttle passengers
between the R Line and the campus. Mr. Abel said that staff
would not envision the circulator becoming an RTD service,
because it was offered as a concession for moving the rail
service.
Director Folska said she would support the motion.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Francone, Sisk, Solano
REMOTE:
Claudia Folska
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• DRCOG Vanpool Funding Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver
Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support and
expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and shall be in
an amount not to exceed $1,058,600.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.
Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Broom stated that circulator bus service had begun by
way of grant funding on the Anschutz medical campus. He
asked whether that route would be eligible for funding from
RTD in the same manner as the Hop.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel explained that RTD had supported the DRCOG
vanpool program since 2001 and that the vanpool program
had previously experienced limited participation due to
perceived high fares, insufficient funding for van acquisition,
difficulties in recruiting drivers, and the lack of funding to
support necessary marketing activities. He added that RTD
and DRCOG entered into a partnership in April of 2001 to
expand vanpool service in the Denver metropolitan area. In
order to make meaningful advances toward meeting shared
goals of offering desirable mobility options, reducing traffic
congestion, and improving air quality in the Denver
metropolitan area. Mr. Abel explained the benefits for RTD
included substantial cost savings from avoidance or
replacement of marginal bus routes with vanpools and also
benefits both RTD and DRCOG were complementary marketing
programs and increased commuter transportation alternatives.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD financial support was used to
help underwrite the vanpool pricing structure in order to make
vanpool fares more competitive in the transportation
marketplace, to provide incentives to attract and retain
vanpool drivers, and to provide capital funding to acquire
necessary rolling stock to provide vanpool services. He stated
that since the advent of RTD support for the vanpool program
in late 2001, the number of vans in service has grown from
11 to 113 active vans.
Director Menten stated that she would be voting no. She
commented that the program should be moved to the private
sector and was competing with public transit.
Director Folska asked how many people were using the service
annually.
Mr. Abel explained that when ridership was examined in terms
of subsidy per passenger boarding the van pool was $3.60
compared to fixed route prices between $5.00 to $7.00 for
various classes of services and was one of the most cost
effective means of moving people in the agencies’ family of
services.
Director Folska asked where the people that used the service
were going.

Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D

Mr. Abel stated that the typical rider would meet a group at a
Park-n-Ride and go to an employment site and that the van
pools were very much employment site focused.
Mr. Matthews explained that the van pools commute to places
such as Buckley Air Force Base, the Federal Center, Colorado
Springs, to business north of Denver, and anywhere there was
a major employer in and out of Denver.

Mr. Matthews explained that the subsidy was based only on
the miles within the RTD district.
Director Anderson commented that the vanpools were all going
to the same place and straight to the place of employment.
She added that the program was a benefit to RTD because it
had taken the place of bus routes that had low ridership.
Director Folska asked how many of the vans were wheelchair
accessible.
Mr. Abel explained that there were not any wheelchair
accessible vans in service, but noted that RTD had wheelchair
accessible vans available should there be a demand.
Director Folska stated that she would support the motion.
Director Williams asked if the program included school pool.
Mr. Mathews explained that school pool was a separate
program offered by DRCOG.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 2]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Ken Mihalik, Natalie Menten
Ernest Archuleta, Tina Francone, Chuck Sisk, Paul Solano
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska asked why the vans would travel to Colorado
Springs when that was outside of DRCOG and RTD districts.

6.D

• Englewood Art Shuttle Funding Agreement

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel explained that in 2003 the City of Englewood applied
for and received a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ)
Grant for a circulator bus service that connected the
Englewood light rail station and Swedish Medical Center/Craig
Hospital. He stated that the grant was approved with funding
available 2004-2007 and the funds were approved for 80% of
the cost of the service. Mr. Abel explained that RTD
contributed 10% of the expense and the City of Englewood
contributed 10% and implemented the Art shuttle in 2004 as
a free service. He added that in September 2007, with the
expiration of the CMAQ grant, RTD took over funding of the
Art shuttle because the high ridership exceeded RTD’s
expectations. Mr. Abel explained that the City of Englewood
continued the management and marketing of the Art shuttle
and that the City of Englewood covered all marketing and
related expenses. He added that the Art shuttle continued to
be a free service sponsored by the City of Englewood and that
the City of Englewood reimbursed RTD for the fares that
would have been paid if the Art shuttle charged a RTD fare.
Mr. Abel stated that in 2018, the Art Shuttle would change its
name and become the Englewood Trolley.
Director Broom asked why it was called the Art.
Director Tisdale explained that Art stands for Area Rapid
Transit.
Director Folska stated that the Art shuttle assisted with the
first and last mile issues and that other areas should look into
Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement
with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the
operation of the Art circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This
agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for an amount not to exceed
$336,208.

6.D

a similar program. She added that she was in support of the
program.

NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 1]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Ken Mihalik
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Francone, Sisk, Solano
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• Exercise Option for On-Vehicle Advertising Contract
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
General Manager or his designee be authorized to exercise the one-time
extension with Lamar Advertising of Denver [Lamar] for the two-year period
January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2019. Under the terms of the
recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum
guarantee of $3.4 million in 2018 and $3.4 million in 2019 or 2) seventy
percent of net sales, whichever is greater.
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
stated that he would take questions from the Directors.
Director Williams asked if RTD paid Lamar for advertising on
the back of RTD buses.
Adrian Mabry, Manager of Projects, Contracts, and Marketing,
stated that it did not cost the agency to advertise on RTD
buses.
Director Williams asked if the agency approved what goes on
the buses.
Mr. Reed explained that RTD did not reject advertising unless
an advertisement violates RTD policy and as long as it fell
within a commercial advertisement realm.
Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

6.D

Mr. Asphaug explained that RTD had a limited forum that
accepted commercial advertising and would not accept
nonprofit advertising for causes or political viewpoints.

Mr. Reed explained that with the guarantee in the two-year
extension the minimum revenue would be $3.4 million each
year and that Lamar has delivered the minimum revenue
guarantee each year without incident. He added that the
amount was less than had been expected based on prior
years.
Director Broom asked if there were any advertisements that
were off limits.
Mr. Mabry stated that RTD advertisement guidelines were very
specific to determine what was allowed to be advertised on
RTD buses. He added that there were specific set of items
that were not allowed at all and then areas that RTD had ruled
out.
Director Broom asked about advertising for a non-smoking
campaign.
Mr. Reed explained that would fall under nonprofit and would
not be allowed. He added that approximately six years ago the
Board voted to allow alcohol advertising.
Mr. Asphaug added that the agency must look at each type of
advertisement to determine if it fits into the policy.
Director Menten asked if it was a nonprofit advertisement that
it would be rejected.
Mr. Asphaug read the advertising policy that can be found on
the RTD website.
Director Menten asked if RTD would allow a public service
announcement.
Mr. Asphaug explained that the current policy does allow the
agency to accept public service advertisements from local,
Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow asked how the amount of $3.4 million was
determined.

6.D

state, or federal governmental agencies regarding public
programs, services, or events.
Director Menten asked when RTD the changes at Denver
Union Station regarding directional signage and advertisement
would be implemented.

Director Menten asked about the emails sent out to attend
games and events and if RTD received funding for the
advertising through the emails.
Mr. Mabry explained that the emails were specials offered
from organizations to RTD employees to attend at a
discounted rate.
Director Menten stated that RTD was advertising for those
organizations benefit.
Mr. Reed explained that the emails were an internal email only.
Director Menten stated that it took time away from the
employees’ and Directors’ day to read or answer those emails.
Director Folska asked if
advertisements on the bus

the

agency

placed

recruiting

General Manager Genova stated that RTD does recruitment
advertisement on buses.
Director Folska stated she would support the motion.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
SECONDER: Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Francone, Sisk, Solano
REMOTE:
Claudia Folska
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova stated the request for expressions of
interest was on his desk for review. He added that once it
had been reviewed it would be advertised as an RFP and
included digital advertising at Denver Union Station.

6.D

C. Updates
There were no updates.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 23, 2018
F. Adjourn

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 9:02 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 66

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

6.E

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
December 14, 2017
I.
Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 1st Vice Chair Francone, 2nd
Vice-Chair Deadwyler (via phone)
Secretary Walker, Treasurer Menten

Other Board members present:

Directors Tisdale and Lubow (via
phone)

Others present:

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating
Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, Barbara
McManus, Executive Manager of the
Board Office, and John McKay, Board
Office Administrator

II.

December Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy reviewed the December Board Meeting agenda and discussed the number
of employees who would be retiring from RTD in December.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, noted that Jerome Hall, a bus operator with 37 years of accident-free
service, was retiring.
Chair Hoy asked if Mr. Hall would attend the meeting, and Mr. Abel responded that
he hoped so. Chair Hoy asked whether the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee would have an update, and Director Francone
responded that it would not.

Packet Pg. 67

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

6.E

Chair Hoy stated that anyone wishing to move unanimous consent items to
recommended actions should do so at that time. Regarding the recommended
actions, he said he did not know whether any of the items would be controversial
but stated that problems could be dealt with during the meeting.
Chair Hoy made the motion to approve moving
the December 19th Board agenda to the full
Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.
Vote on
the Motion

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0
opposed.

Other Matters
Chair Hoy stated that there had been some recent discussion about the Board-only
retreat scheduled for February 2018.
Director Francone said that the elephant in the room was the agenda. She said
there were questions about what the Board hoped to accomplish and how the goals
could be achieved.
Chair Hoy said the initial discussion indicated that there was a feeling among
Directors that the Board was not as cohesive as people would like to see. He said
the retreat, as currently structured, was planned as a training exercise in Board
effectiveness. He stated that he had spoken with several Directors, all of whom
had differing opinions on the purpose of retreat. He said the Directors he spoke
with about the retreat did not offer a lot of direction on how to proceed. He said
that he welcomed input from the Directors.
Director Menten asked who had stated that the Board was not cohesive.
Chair Hoy said the feeling was among Directors, not staff. He said that the
Directors who spoke with him had said the Directors should be collaborators not
competitors.
Director Francone said Directors were concerned that they would not have an
opportunity to sit together as a Board in the same room, at the same time, and be
able to discuss ways to communicate better and work together more effectively

Packet Pg. 68

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Motion:

6.E

Chair Hoy agreed that the retreat should not be used as a vehicle to complain about
particular issues. He said he would like the Directors to walk away from the session
with a path forward on how to work together to solve issues. He said another
focus of the retreat could be to establish the roles the Directors should perform,
whether creating policy, overseeing the agency, or serving as the agency
watchdogs. He said the Directors would know how they should perform once they
knew what they were supposed to do.
Director Francone noted that Directors had certain statutory definitions as to what
the Directors’ duties responsibilities were, which were also codified in the bylaws
and directives that have gone forward.
Ms. McManus added that Board-approved Board operating guidelines and specific
policies also governed the Directors’ roles.
Director Francone said she heard what Chair Hoy was saying. She said she felt she
knew what she was supposed to do as a Director but thought a refresher could be
helpful. She said the thought it would be helpful for new Directors to hear what
their responsibilities were but did not think an entire retreat would be necessary to
reinforce that.
Chair Hoy said he anticipated the retreat would take four hours, which would be
less time than some Tuesday night meetings. He said that half of the Directors did
not agree about how the retreat should be structured. He said a lot of Directors
were reticent about attending the meeting, but he stated that he would take
responsibility if the retreat failed. If successful, though, he said the retreat could
change in the following years.
Director Menten asked how many Directors indicated they would not attend.
Chair Hoy said there were three, with differing levels of enthusiasm. He said none
of the Directors who had spoken to him said they simply would not attend.
Director Deadwyler said she stated she would not attend if the retreat were
structured in the same way as the joint Board/Senior Leadership Team (SLT)
retreat. She said she was not interested in hearing from a facilitator about the role

Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

toward a common goal. She said there were questions about where the Board was
going, whether the Directors felt as a whole that the Board should be moving in a
certain direction, and how the retreat would help to decide. She stated she did not
want the retreat to become a complaint session.

6.E

of the Board. She noted that the Board, being a democratic entity, would never
have consensus, because Directors were responsible for answering to their
constituents.

Director Lubow agreed with Director Deadwyler that she was not interested in
hearing from a facilitator about the role of the Board. She said her goal was to have
the Board come together to discuss the areas of concern, what was going on with
agency, where improvements could be made, and where the Board would like to
see the agency go. She said the Board did not have the opportunity to debate those
things but rather tended to discuss focused issues. She said intelligent people
coming together to talk about areas of concern created synergy. She said the Board
would not know what the outcome would be, but she felt the exercise would be
useful.
Chair Hoy said what Director Lubow was saying was different from her earlier email
response.
Director Menten said she did not remember being polled on how the retreat should
be structured.
Director Tisdale said that he felt that periodically getting together to provide a highlevel refresher regarding the role and function of Board was best practice. He
suggested that the Board was capable of self-facilitating the retreat and that the
retreat was an opportunity for each Director to express a point of view and a
personal agenda. He said that knowing what motivates the other Directors would
give the Board the opportunity to work more collaboratively. He said the Board
would have to agree in advance not to resolve issues but rather to flesh them out
and to find strategies to address areas of concern.
Chair Hoy said that Director Tisdale had eloquently expressed what he himself was
feeling. He asked Director Tisdale whether he knew a person named Bob Widner.
Director Tisdale said yes, that Mr. Widner was a city attorney in Cherry Hills Village
and was currently the city attorney for Centennial. He said he was a good lawyer
and a thoughtful person and had come up with a simplified parliamentary procedure
guide called Bob’s Rules of Order.

Packet Pg. 70

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy said he was not looking for the Directors to agree but rather to
understand how the Directors can get along, how Board can work together, and
how individual Directors can relate to one another.

6.E

Director Francone agreed with Chair Hoy and said that Mr. Widner was a great
speaker who had valuable things to say regarding organizations and the duties of
Directors. She said she hoped for some assurance that Mr. Widner would only be
asked to participate for a short time during the retreat, with the bulk of the time
dedicated to the Board’s discussion about the agency’s direction, the agency’s
challenges, and the Directors’ duties and obligations. She said that Directors need
not always agree with one another but stated that rowing in same direction would
make the Board effective.
Chair Hoy agreed that was the goal of the retreat. He said that the Directors all
agreed that they would like to be a stronger Board as a result of the retreat. He said
that did not mean the Directors would have to agree on everything and should
respect dissent. He said the retreat was a great opportunity for the Board to be
more effective.
Director Walker said that everyone could use a Board effectiveness retreat and that
he agreed that Directors did not have to agree with one another. He said that how
the Directors disagree was more important. He said he did not have a personal
agenda because his district was already built out. He noted that organizational
effectiveness information was readily available but stated that some people simply
did not want to play nicely in the sandbox. He said that he would be interested in a
session that helped all the Directors understand how to play well together in the
sandbox. He said the Directors had an opportunity each week to talk about new
business, old business, and other matters and that the Board did not need to spend
four additional hours to discuss those matters.
Director Menten asked whether Director Walker was polled about his preference
regarding the structure of the retreat.
Director Walker said he did not remember.
Chair Hoy said that he may have just had conversations with individual Directors.
He said he could send out and email asking for feedback.

Packet Pg. 71

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy said that he and Director Francone had the opportunity to hear Mr.
Widner speak, and they reached out to him to see if he could participate in a
segment of the retreat. Chair Hoy said Mr. Widner’s specialty was Board dynamics
and how to get things accomplished and that he walked away from Mr. Widner’s
presentation with the concept that Board members need not agree to get along.

6.E

Chair Hoy said he would support Directors bringing issues but would not support a
retreat dedicated to discussing those issues. He said the joint Board/SLT retreat
would follow a month later and that was the appropriate venue for discussing
issues. He said that some Directors had district-specific issues and that the retreat
could help them figure out how to address those issues.
Director Deadwyler said that the Directors would largely be in agreement if they
were asked to submit their choices for the top three agency challenges. She said
her biggest concern in all areas of the agency was communication. She said the
Board would not need to go through 45 individual issues during the retreat because
there would be common ground. She said she did not have any problem with Mr.
Widner attending for 30 minutes.
Chair Hoy said that Mr. Widner would need more than 30 minutes but stated that
the Directors would enjoy his presentation.
Director Menten said that her preference for the retreat would be to discuss
challenges and solutions. She said the Board did not have to have the last word.
Director Tisdale agreed that concerns should put on table and that the Directors
should agree to listen to those concerns but not resolve them. He said he did not
want to get bogged down in the weeds but preferred to hear out potential
solutions, so that the Directors will have already had the initial discussion prior to
the joint Board/staff retreat, which would then yield a more informed discussion.
Director Menten suggested a questionnaire could be sent out soon, with a
turnaround time of January 15.
Chair Hoy said that a two-week response period would be sufficient. He reiterated
that he did not want the retreat to turn into a complaint session but rather saw it as

Packet Pg. 72

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten said that, during the retreat, she would like to address the
agency’s challenges. She suggested that the polling email could solicit the top three
challenges from each Director, which could be used going into the March retreat.
She said that the agency’s goals were set during March but noted that there were
certain obstacles that needed to be recognized. She noted that she preferred selffacilitation to outside facilitators but noted it was difficult to do a Board-only retreat
when staff had a better understanding of the agency’s day-to-day challenges. She
suggested that the meeting could start over breakfast and begin immediately, with
a short introductory statement from each Director of their main concerns.

6.E

an opportunity for newfound respect for everyone. He said the goal should be
professionalism, respect, and tolerance of dissenting opinion.
Director Deadwyler said that would be possible if the Board established ground
rules.

Chair Hoy said there had been some controversy about bringing in an outsider. He
said that the mediator could be someone whose role was to monitor the discussion
so the Board could get through the ground rules.
Director Deadwyler said she had worked with the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service (FMCS) in the past and that they were excellent. She said that
the Directors could bring in a free facilitator if they chose not to self-facilitate. She
said she did not think any of the Directors wanted agency staff involved in the
retreat.
Director Francone said that she felt a facilitator was necessary. She said that Chair
Hoy should be able to participate in the discussion and not have to run the retreat.
She said that a Board-only retreat should only be attended by the Board, rather than
agency staff.
Chair Hoy said that inviting FMCS was a good idea but noted that the Board would
need an agency employee in attendance for technological reasons. He said
deviating from normal meeting procedure would not help the Board to seem
transparent.
Director Deadwyler suggested that John McKay, Board Office Administrator, could
attend, take notes, and operate the equipment.
Director Menten asked whether the facilitator would lead the discussion.
Chair Hoy said that FMCS would be there to watch the group dynamics and to keep
everyone on track.
Director Deadwyler said they would not get involved unless they were asked to do
so.

Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McManus said that what she was hearing was that the Board did not want an
outside mediator. She said that the Board needed to be comfortable with the
outcome if there were no external person.

6.E

Chair Hoy said that Director Deadwyler had suggested the agency use FMCS for
other agency efforts. He said they knew when to jump in and when to stand back
and were a free service from the federal government. He suggested that the Board
could discuss lessons learned and determine whether the Directors liked the format
and what they learned from the process.
Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 1:06 p.m.
Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Dec 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

IV.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 74

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

8.A

Board of Directors

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
November 28, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM
5:19 PM
5:19 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:29 PM
5:30 PM
5:26 PM
5:33 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:33 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:27 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:09 PM
5:09 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:19 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 15 members present at roll call.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Becker, Steve Bodie, Nicole Carey,
Lou Cripps, Kevin Deviness, Dawn Dileo, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry

Packet Pg. 75

Emmons, John Ewy, David Genova, Bob Grado, Jeff Kay, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen
Miller, Tai-Shrae Parish, Mace Pemberton, Scott Reed, Anthony
Roberts-Ramey, Ruth Seleske, Bill Sirois, Kevin Steele, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma
Others Present:

Shelley Cook, Jenee Donelson, Shely Foster, Jamie Lewis, Robert
Jones, Angie Malpiede, Carrie Mitchel, Michael Raber, Ashley Ramey,
Veletta Ramey, Ean Tafoya, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van
Dorn

Chair Hoy discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency situation occurred.

IV.

Retiree Awards
Chair Hoy noted there were three retirees for the month of November and one was in
attendance: Anthony Roberts-Ramey.
General Manager Genova asked Bruce Abel to introduce Mr. Roberts-Ramey.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, said that Mr. Roberts-Ramey was present along with members of his family to
celebrate his retirement after 23 years. Mr. Abel noted that Mr. Roberts-Ramey had been a
full time bus operator and was working out of the East Metro division. He said that in
retirement, Mr. Roberts-Ramey planned to work on cars, lawn mowers as well as school
and relaxation.
Mr. Roberts-Ramey thanked God, Jesus, and the Holy Ghost. He noted said that 23 years
was a long time, and asked for 15 seconds of silence for his colleagues who had been lost
along the way. He noted that the people he wanted to thank the most for being in his life
were his wife, mother, his brothers for being his foundation, his children for their love and
support, and his sister-in-law. He also thanked his local union, ATU 1001, his supervisors,
the street supervisors, cleaners, maintainers, dispatchers, HR, health and wellness, and
most of all, his Aunt Doris who got him started at RTD. He said that prior to working at
RTD he was in the banking industry for nine years. His Aunt Doris would drive him
downtown on her route and would tell him that he looked nice in his suit, but one day he
would get old and have to retire and he should drive a bus for RTD. One day he was
notified that his bank had been bought out and would be downsizing, so his Aunt brought
him a Trailblazer and he studied on his lunch breaks, and there he was, 23 and a half years
later. He noted that there were bumps in the road along the way such as union strikes and
new routes every year, but he was able to witness light rail emerge and most of all, he
was able to meet and work with a multitude of people. He said that in closing, as a child

Packet Pg. 76

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

he and his brother and cousin would ride on the back of the bus by holding on to the back
of the sign from 22nd and York Street to Downing Street and back again for fun. He added
that he was both blessed and thankful to have had this unique career and he was proud to
have a new title: RTD Retiree.
Chair Hoy noted that hearing from retirees was always special and remarked that two
others were unable to make it to the meeting. He thanked Becky Rivers and David W.
Smith for their contribution and efforts to RTD.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated public participation was open to anyone that wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker was allowed three minutes.
Ean Tafoya, Denver, commented the he was speaking on behalf of the Colorado Latino
Forum, which was dedicated to advancing Latinos in the socio-economic realm. He said
that he wanted to speak against item G, the Approval of General Manager's 2017
Performance Evaluation, which he stated included a bonus. He said that the community felt
that the General Manager had not met or exceeded his goals. He commented that the
community experienced service failure, FasTracks faltering, service reductions, concerns
about cutting college passes, and concerns for driver safety. He added that gentrification
and the housing crisis ware real and the direct connection between affordable
transportation and affordable housing was equally real. He asked the Board not to support
item G, as RTD was not in a position to give bonuses to CEO’s while poor people had their
services cut. He added that if the Board chose to support this decision, the community
would not forget when it came time for elections. He further added that if it were
approved, he would call on the General Manger to return the bonus to RTD for the benefit
of the riders. He commented that there was a bigger issue at hand in terms of funding and
if taxes need to be raised to ensure people could get home and to their jobs that
conversation should be had. He stated that when the transportation bill comes forward next
year RTD should to fight for public transportation.
Janee Donelson, Denver, stated that she worked for 9to5 Colorado, a non-profit entity
that works for economic justice for women both in and out of the workplace. She said
that she was a transit organizer and a transit user who found out earlier in the day that
General Manager Genova would be getting a bonus while routes, such as the 12, 15, and
20, were being cut. She commented that she would have to tell seniors at the Senior
Support Services center at 18th and Emerson about the closures of their stops. She stated
that she was unsure as to what the Board’s goal was, but it did not make any sense. She
asked if any of the Board members used public transportation, or if they had spoken to the
people who use it. She added that she did not see where the General Manager’s
performance merited a bonus and asked the Board to vote against item G.

Packet Pg. 77

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
There was no update from the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of October 24, 2017
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of October 24, 2017.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk,
Solano, Walker, Williams) and 0 against.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy provided the following report:
Attended events and awards
 October 25th – The Mobility Choice Blueprint Board Meeting was held at the
Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce, and Directors Menten, Solano,
Walker, and I attended.

Packet Pg. 78

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

VI.

8.A

 November 9th – RTD’s Small Business Breakfast of Champions was held in
Aurora, and several Directors were in attendance, including Directors
Archuleta, Solano, Williams, and myself.
 November 10th
o RTD held its annual Veterans Day Luncheon at Mile High Station, and
Directors Folska, Francone, and I attended, as did Barbara McManus.
o Also that day, Director Tisdale attended the South Metro Denver
Chamber Economic Development Group Breakfast in Centennial.
 November 11th
o The 2017 Power Gala was held in Glendale, and Director Folska was
in attendance.
o The Rocky Mountain Indian Chamber held its American Indian
Achievement Awards Gala at the Denver Tech Center, and Director
Archuleta attended.
 November 16th – The Mobility Choice Blueprint Board Meeting for November
was held at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) in Golden.
Director Solano attended.
 November 17th – The Denver South Economic Development Annual
Luncheon was held in Lone Tree, and Directors Francone, Solano, and
Tisdale were in attendance.
 November 24th – This past Friday Director Archuleta participated in the
Grand Illumination of Union Station.
 November 28th – Several Directors participated in today’s District Tour of
RTD’s facilities and operations, including Directors Broom, Francone, Mihalik,
Tisdale, and Williams.
Ongoing and upcoming events
 The Denver Regional Mobility & Access Council (DRMAC) Annual Meeting
and Regional Coordinating Council (RCC) Annual Meeting will be held in
Denver on Friday, December 1st, and Directors Tisdale and Williams will
attend.
 On December 4th, the Open House for District H will be held in Centennial,
and Director Tisdale will attend.
 Director Solano will attend Mayor Hancock's 2017 Sustainable Denver
Summit in Denver on December 5th.

Packet Pg. 79

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

 October 26th – Downtown Denver Partnership held a member forum in
Denver observing the 10th anniversary of the Downtown Area Plan. Directors
Solano, Williams, and I attended.

8.A

 General Manager Genova will present the State of the District Address in
this room on December 12th.
 The following day, December 13th, the CAC Quarterly Meeting will also be
held Conference Room A.
 Also that same day, the Open House for District I will be held in Longmont,
and Director Lubow will participate.
 On December 14th, Director Francone will attend both the Mobile Lab and
the Open House for District N, which will be held in Evergreen.
 Several Directors, including Directors Deadwyler, Folska, Mihalik, Tisdale,
Williams, and myself, will be on hand for the Civic Center Rededication
Ceremony on December 15th, and I would invite everyone to attend.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:
 Attended the Mobility Choice Board of Directors Meeting on Wednesday, October
25th.
 Attended a Commuter Rail Public Open House & Information Session at the Arvada
Center for the Arts and Humanities on Wednesday, October 25th.
 Had a conference call with the DTP Board on Thursday, October 26th.
 Met with State Representative Paul Rosenthal on Thursday, October 26th.
 Met with Doug Dean, Director of Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)
Department of Regulatory Agencies, on Thursday, October 26th.
 Attended a Commuter Rail Public Open House & Information Session at the Wheat
Ridge Recreation Center, on Thursday, October 26th.
 Met with Kurt Morrison, Legislative Affairs Director for the Governor’s Office, on
Friday, October 27th.
 Attended a Commuter Rail Public Open House & Information Session at the Green
Valley Ranch Recreation Center on Saturday, October 28th.
 Signed closing documents for the sale of the Alameda Bus Barn on Wednesday,
November 1st.
 Presented to the Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) on Thursday,
November 2nd.
 Met with Gretchen Hollrah, Executive Director for the Mayor’s Office of the
National Western Center, and Diane Barrett, Denver’s Chief Projects Officer on
Monday, November 6th.
 Met with State Representatives Jeff Bridges and Mike Weissman on Monday,
November 6th.

Packet Pg. 80

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

 On December 7th, the Metro Mayors Caucus & Metro Area County
Commissioners Regional Leadership Reception will be held in Denver, and
Directors Francone, Lubow, and Tisdale will attend.















Met with State Representative Matt Gray on Tuesday, November 7th.
Had an interview with the American DBE Magazine on Wednesday, November 8th.
RTD was the feature article for the Fall 2017 Issue.
Met with State Speaker Crisanta Duran on Wednesday, November 8th.
Spoke at the FasTracks Small Business Celebration Breakfast on Thursday,
November 9th.
Spoke at the RTD Veteran’s Day Luncheon on Friday, November 10th.
Attended the Visit Denver Annual Partnership Meeting on Tuesday, November 14th.
Met with the DTP Board Tuesday, November 14th.
Met with State Representative Steve Lebsock on Tuesday, November 14th.
Attended the APTA Board of Directors Executive Committee Strategic Retreat and
Board Meeting on Tuesday, November 14t through Friday, November 17th.
Met with Amy Ford, Director of Office Communications at CDOT, and Peter
Kozinski, RoadX Director, regarding Infrastructure and Transit Systems Connector
on Monday, November 20th.
Met with State Representative Faith Winter on Tuesday, November 28th.
Met with Senator Dominick Moreno on Tuesday, November 28th.

Director Menten asked if during the state and senate leader meetings a fix for HB1242
was discussed.
General Manager Genova said no and noted that there was not much discussion on that
topic at all.
Director Menten inquired about the meeting with CDOT and stated that she would like
more information about the RoadX program.
General Manager Genova explained that RoadX was a CDOT initiative and RTD would only
be involved as a user and would not have any direct involvement in the project.
Director Francone asked if the funds from the sale of the Alameda Bus Barn were
earmarked for anything in particular.
General Manager Genova commented that the proceeds, which totaled about $4 million,
would be added to the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA).
Director Broom stated that he took a District Tour earlier in the day and saw the
construction on Brighton Blvd. and asked when the construction for that road would be
completed.

Packet Pg. 81

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Director Solano noted that he attended the Mobility Choice meeting at NREL and was
surprised that there was a lot of discussion about the problems in transportation, but there
were not any solutions offered. He asked when Mobility Choice would provide substantive
work.
General Manager Genova explained that Mobility Choice had just recently chosen the
contractor for the work, and they would need a year to complete the task.
Director Archuleta asked if the General Manager could elaborate as to what happened
during the meeting with the CPUC.
General Manager Genova remarked that the meeting with CPUC Executive Director Doug
Dean was to inform and educate and to impress upon the magnitude of the entire project
as well as the scope. He noted that at the time of that meeting, RTD had not received the
written orders from the last CPUC meeting. He stated that the CPUC has ruled that there
will be a hearing in front of an administrative law judge and staff is hopeful that the status
conference will be held in December, and the hearing scheduled shortly after that.
Director Francone inquired as to which consultant was chosen by Mobility Choice.
General Manager Genova responded that HDR was selected.
Director Menten added that Roger Sherman would also be doing the private entities’
outreach as well.

XI.

Public Hearing for 2018 Recommended Budget
Chair Hoy called to order the Public Hearing for RTD’s 2018 Recommended Budget. He
indicated that, in accordance with RTD's requirements, notice of the public hearing was
duly posted by the office of the Executive Manager to the Board of Directors at the Board
approved notice location of 1660 Blake Street. He added that a copy of the 2018
Recommended Budget was available for the public on request from the Board Office.
Chair Hoy noted that there were no speakers or questions relating to the 2018
Recommended Budget and asked for a motion to approve the action item.
A.

2018 Recommended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2017 for the adoption of the 2018 Budget,

Packet Pg. 82

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

Mr. Abel explained that construction is constantly in flux, especially in light of the Stock
Show.

8.A

Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve the
2018 Recommended Budget.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano,
Walker, Williams) and 1 against (Menten).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [14 TO 1]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

XII.

Unanimous Consent
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve
items B-E on the unanimous consent agenda.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano,
Walker, Williams) and 0 against.
Director
Archuleta was away.

Packet Pg. 83

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2017 for the 2018 Budget Appropriation and Resolution No.
___, Series of 2017 for the appropriation of 2018 Previously Appropriated Capital.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:

PASSED [14 TO 0]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Ernest Archuleta

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
B.
Approval of 2018 Contract Amendment to Kumar and Associates, Inc. for the
Construction Materials Testing and Inspection Services Contract
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the 2018 Contract
Amendment for Kumar and Associates and increase the contract Not-to-Exceed amount by
$1,000,000. This will result in a new Not-to-Exceed contract amount of $6,000,000 for
Construction Materials Testing and Inspection Services.
It is further recommended that the Contract end date be extended from December 31,
2018 until December 31, 2019 to complete work on the North Metro and SERE projects.
Funds for the amendment are contained in the 2018 Recommended Budget for the specific
projects for which Kumar’s services are utilized.
C.

Longmont Fare Buy Up

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City of Longmont to buy up fares on all four
of the Longmont local fixed route services herein referenced as “the 300 series.”
Specifically the 300 series are routes 323, 324, 326 and 327 and complementary Accessa-Ride services for a period of two years.
D.

2018 Fiscal Policy Statement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts the revised Fiscal Policy Statement for 2018.
E.

2018 Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.

XIII.

Recommended Action
F.

Federal Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement for

Packet Pg. 84

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
Federal Liaison Service.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano,
Walker, Williams) and 1 opposed (Menten).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [14 TO 1]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
G.
Approval of General Manager's 2017 Performance Evaluation
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General Manager’s performance
appraisal for 2017 as defined in the attached completed General Manager’s Performance
Evaluation Packet.
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee is pleased to report they are in agreement with General Manager Genova’s selfassessments and feel he has achieved or exceeded his overall goals for the 2017
Performance Appraisal. Although it has been a challenging year, the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee recognizes that General Manager
Genova has met the “Exceeds Expectations” for all of the Core Goals and one of the Task
Goals and “Achieved Expectations” for the remaining Task Goals set forth for performance
in 2017. Based on the consistent and outstanding performance in leading the RTD and the
overall compensation philosophy is to hire and maintain top talent in keeping with the
industry compensation of transit leadership peers we feel General Manager Genova has
earned a discretionary performance payment of $2,850.00. This is an increase of 1% over
last year.

Packet Pg. 85

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

Federal Liaison Services with Squire Patton Boggs LLP for a one-year option at a cost of
$270,000 (January 1 through December 31, 2018). This action represents the fourth
year of a five-year contract. Funding for this contract is included in the annual budget.

8.A

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
the General Manager's 2017 Performance
Evaluation.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Francone said that the committee had done a lot of
work and thanked the members of the committee who
participated in the process. She noted that, going forward,
there would always be suggestions as to how this process
could be improved and added that Barbara McManus,
Executive Manager of the Board Office, had done a lot to
streamline the process. She invited the Board to comment on
the process and to provide commentary on how it could be
improved. She added that there were always comments on
items that should be considered in the General Manager’s
evaluation but if anything needed to be changed or looked at
differently it would need to occur before his task and core
goals are set. She explained that the committee tries to keep
the process fair for the General Manager, the agency, and the
public. She noted that she was the lone dissenting vote in the
committee for this action, but her no vote was because of the
percentage of the discretionary performance payment rather
than the General Manager’s performance.
Chair Hoy noted that Director Francone had worked hard
during this entire process and what she was pointing out was
that the committee had made every effort to take subjectivity
out of the process and made it objective. He added that the
committee did a good job of that this year and would need to
keep that in mind in the future.
Director Lubow commented that she would be voting against
this. She said that to her the analysis of the bonus is about the
agency as a whole, and the agency is still dealing with
problems. She added that if the Board was up for a bonus she
would turn that down because it would not be appropriate
given the current financial times. She said that the buck stops
here, and remarked that the bonus amount was too high. She
stated that, if the bonus were approved, the Board would be
ignoring the inconveniences the constituents had to endure.

Packet Pg. 86

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

Motion:

She added that she would have recommended a smaller
amount because of his good work, but the current percentage
was too high. She further added that she attended one of
RTD’s town halls for the commuter rail and Nate Currey,
former Senior of Public Relations, did an excellent job and she
finally felt that RTD was giving the public the information that
they needed. She stated that, if there are big problems, it was
important to go out to the public and let them know. She
reiterated that the General Manager’s discretionary bonus was,
or should be, tied to the performance of the agency. She
added that one of the items missing from the goal review was
an analysis showing how the agency’s work affected the
public.
Director Deadwyler stated that she agreed with Director
Lubow. She said that RTD had a very challenging year and an
important metric left out of the goals was day-to-day
performance. She commented that she too would be voting no
and said that the core and task goals needed to be changed
for 2018.
Director Williams said that she would also be a no vote. She
said that, based on the comments made by the constituents
who spoke earlier, no one at the agency should receive a
bonus.
Director Anderson remarked that while the General Manager
had met and exceeded his goals, she agreed that it had been a
rough and challenging year. She noted that, because of the
many challenges faced by the agency, the General Manager
deserved a small performance payment for all of the things he
had done to keep the agency on track. She commented that
her community had suffered due to setbacks with the G Line,
but the Board could see evidence every day that the General
Manager was trying and the issue boiled down to regulators
and regulations for new technology that was not the fault of
the General Manager or employees. She added that this
would be a small payment and would support this item. She
noted that she was not happy with a lot of things that had
happened this year, but she stated that the General Manager

Packet Pg. 87

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Director Walker stated that every year he had been on the
Board was classified as a difficult year, and not just this
agency but for every transit agency. He noted that anyone
could run this agency if times were good, but he found value
in how the person in charge handles things when times are
tough. He commented that the General Manager and his staff
had handled this past year with respect, honor, grace, and
skill. He added that the General Manger has performed well
and exceeded expectations and the Board should show their
appreciation for his abilities, so he would be supporting this
motion.
Director Solano said that he would not be supporting this item.
He stated that the General Manager makes twice as much as
the governor, and to him, he makes enough already. He
commented that as a government entity it sends the wrong
message, especially as elected officials. He noted that while
the General Manager does a great job, he already makes too
much money.
Director Folska commented that Directors Archuleta and
Solano have asked that RTD recruit on Spanish radio and Tv.
She said that a lot of transit agencies were having the same
recruitment issues, but one of RTD’s problems was that the
process was very slow and people need jobs today, not in a
few months. She noted that in Aurora, they have started to
pay new hires right away instead of making them wait to go
through the process, so because of that, she would be a no
vote. She added that staff should recruit retirees to be
recruitment ambassadors, especially after hearing the speech
by Mr. Roberts-Ramey this evening.
Director Tisdale stated that it must be difficult for the General
Manager to sit here and listen to the Board tell him that he
was doing a great job but his performance was not good
enough to warrant a discretionary bonus. He said that a
discretionary bonus was a nice gesture and a way to tell him
yes, he had done a good job in the difficult times in which he

Packet Pg. 88

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

and his team had done an outstanding job despite all of the
challenges this year.

had to perform difficult tasks, while noting the results have
not always turned out the way the Board wanted. He said that
to him this was a small discretionary bonus to appreciate the
General Manager’s work, while noting that he was working
hard. His critique was that the bonus was a small enough
number and it shows the Board’s confidence in the General
Manager, so he would be voting to support this item.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 7 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker) and 8 opposed (Archuleta, Folska,
Francone, Lubow, Menten, Solano, Williams).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

FAILED [8 TO 7]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker
Archuleta, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Menten, Solano, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion FAILED.
H.
TMD Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee to approve an amendment to the
Transportation Management & Design, Inc. (TMD) Contract 14DO009, awarded in March
2015, to exercise the two remaining one-year option periods thereby extending the
Contract period of performance to December 31, 2019 and to increase the contract
amount by $650,000 from $500,000 to a new Not to Exceed (NTE) total of $1,150,000.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to approve the
TMD Contract Amendment.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano,
Walker, Williams) and 1 opposed (Deadwyler).

Packet Pg. 89

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [14 TO 1]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
I.
Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the
Free Rides for Members of the Military.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chair Hoy noted that when this item came up in committee,
some Board members mentioned that they had family in the
military and a subsequent discussion ensued. He remarked
that if a Director has a family member who would benefit from
this policy it could be perceived as a conflict, whether it is or
is not.
Director Solano commented that he had three grandsons and a
step-son in the military so he would recuse himself from the
vote.
Director Deadwyler stated that she would vote for this, but
noted that it was not enough. She remarked that RTD offered
free rides to active duty but commented that there were a lot
of military that are in hospitals for rehabilitation and, if the
Board was going to approve this item every year, the program
should be expanded to include other military members.
Director Menten stated that she would vote against this item
because she did not want to single out a certain class of the
public.

Packet Pg. 90

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

Director Folska remarked that her son-in-law serves in the
Navy in Connecticut and she sees the hardship first hand with
her daughter. She added that serving in the military is a huge
sacrifice and the US armed services are outstanding, so she
would support this item.
Director Walker stated that this was a benefit that would be
available to anyone and because of their service, he would be
supporting this item.
Director Mihalik commented that there are plenty of dangerous
jobs that people volunteer for that RTD does not offer free
rides to or recognize, and because of that he would be a no
vote.
Director Anderson explained that this has always been a
recognition of those people in the community that have served
in the military. She added that this program does not cost
RTD a lot, but allows RTD to recognize members of the
community that deserve something.
Director Solano added that this needs to be revisited next year
and combat disabled vets should be included.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker, Williams)
and 2 opposed (Menten, Mihalik). Director
Solano abstained.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSTAIN:

PASSED [12 TO 2 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Ken Mihalik, Natalie Menten
Paul Solano

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

Packet Pg. 91

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

8.A

XIV. Executive Session

XV.

Old Business
There was no old business.

XVI. New Business
Director Tisdale stated that next week the Board would hear an update on the Pass
Program Working Group (PPWG). He encouraged everyone to pay attention to the
discussion as it was important for the Board to be aware to provide guidance and overall
thoughts to the task force. He added that there would be materials from staff included in
the Board Packet and he encouraged everyone to read them.
Director Williams added that the PPWG had a page on RTD’s website. She further added
that on Friday, December 1st there would be a panel discussion at Denver Regional Council
of Governments (DRCOG) at 1:30 p.m.
Director Menten commented that during the last Executive Committee she had inquired
about the light rail reconfiguration as she was going to provide outreach in her district to
explain why seats were going to be removed. She also asked how many people in the last
year had received a one-year suspension from using RTD’s services.
Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety, Security &
Asset Management, said that he did not have exact number of suspensions on hand, but
he would provide that information to the Board.
Director Menten commented that there have been a couple in the past and she was
curious to know if those individuals had their money refunded.
Chair Hoy stated that he had a communication from one of the Directors indicating that
they would like to readdress an item from the Recommended Action list.
Rolf Asphuag, General Counsel, explained that a motion to reconsider could be made at
the same meeting the original motion occurred, but it would need to be brought forward
by an individual on the prevailing side.
Chair Hoy asked if the motion could then be amended.
Director Tisdale commented that if a member of the prevailing side wished to reconsider
the item, there needed to be a motion on the floor to reconsider, then once passed,
another motion could be made to amend.

Packet Pg. 92

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

There was no executive session.

8.A

Chair Hoy recognized Director Francone.
Motion
to reconsider: Director Francone made the motion to
reconsider item G, the General Manager’s 2017
Performance Evaluation.
Director Broom seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Francone commented that she would like to revisit
this action again. She stated that her original no vote was
based on the percentage of the discretionary payment, and not
the General Manager’s performance. She added that any
payment increase outlined in the General Manager’s contract
was not to be construed as a bonus.
Vote on
the Motion
to reconsider: The motion passed with 8 in favor (Broom,
Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker) and 7 opposed (Anderson, Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Menten, Solano, Williams).

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [8 TO 7]
Tina Francone, Director, District N
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker
Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Menten, Solano, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
Chair Hoy stated that, now that the original motion was on the table, he would entertain a
motion to amend.
Motion
to Amend:

Director Francone made the motion to amend
the General Manager’s 2017 Performance

Packet Pg. 93

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

Mr. Asphaug added that, if the motion to reconsider passed, it would bring the motion
forward for discussion.

8.A

Director Lubow seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Chair Hoy remarked that the only change to the General
Manager’s Performance Evaluation would be the percentage of
the discretionary performance payment.
Director Solano commented that 1% would be insulting to the
General Manager.
Director Mihalik noted that 1% equaled $2,850.00.
Mr. Asphaug noted that the Board would be voting to amend
the motion and, if that passed, the Board would need to vote
again for final approval.
Vote on
The Motion
to Amend:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

The motion passed with 8 in favor (Archuleta,
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker) and 7 opposed (Anderson, Deadwyler,
Folska, Mihalik, Menten, Solano, Williams).

PASSED [8 TO 7]
Tina Francone, Director, District N
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Archuleta, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker
Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Mihalik, Menten, Solano, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

Packet Pg. 94

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

Evaluation discretionary performance payment to
1%.

Vote on Final
Motion to
Approve a 1%
Discretionary
Performance
Payout:
The motion passed with 8 in favor (Broom,
Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker) and 7 opposed (Anderson, Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Menten, Solano, Williams).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

ADOPTED AS AMENDED [8 TO 7]
Tina Francone, Director, District N
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker
Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Menten, Solano, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
Chair Hoy noted that the Board had authorized a 1% discretionary performance payment.

XVII. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:16 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 95

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Nov 28, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 28, 2017)

8.A

11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 14, 2017

From:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

GM

Date:

December 7, 2017

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Subject:

2018 Audit Charter

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approves the attached 2018 Audit Charter.
BACKGROUND
The 2018 Audit Charter is a formal document that defines RTD Audit's purpose, authority, responsibility
and position within the organization.
DISCUSSION
The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) and the Information Systems Audit and Control Association
(ISACA), which govern the work of Internal and IT Audit, require the preparation of an Audit Charter
approved by the Board and the General Manager and CEO.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approves the attached 2018 Audit Charter.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not Adopt the 2018 Audit Charter. This action is
not recommended.

ATTACHMENTS:


2018 Audit Charter Proposed final

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
AnnMarie Isaac-Heslop, Manager, Internal and IT Audit
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 96

2018 Audit Charter
Attachment: 2018 Audit Charter Proposed final (3346 : 2018 Audit Charter)

11.A.a

Packet Pg. 97

11.A.a

The purpose of RTD’s Internal and Information Systems Audit Function is to provide
independent, objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and
improve RTD’s processes. The mission of Internal and Information Systems Audit is to
enhance and protect organizational value by providing risk-based and objective
assurance, advice, and insight. The Internal and Information Systems Audit Function
helps RTD accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to
evaluate and improve the effectiveness of governance, risk management, and control
processes. (Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing).
The Internal and Information Systems Audit Function will govern itself by adherence to
the mandatory elements of The Institute of Internal Auditors' International Professional
Practices Framework, including the Core Principles for the Professional Practice of
Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics, the International Standards for the Professional
Practice of Internal Auditing, and the Definition of Internal Auditing. The Manager of
Internal and IT Audit will report periodically to Senior Management and the Board
regarding the function’s conformance to the Code of Ethics and the Standards.

Authority
The Manager of Internal and IT Audit will report functionally to the Board and
administratively (i.e., day-to-day operations) to the General Manager and CEO.
To establish, maintain, and assure that RTD’s Internal and Information Systems Audit
Function has sufficient authority to fulfill its duties, the Board will:
•
•
•
•

Approve the function’s charter.
Approve the risk-based Annual Audit Plan.
Receive communications from the Manager of Internal and IT Audit on the
function’s performance relative to its plan and other matters.
Make appropriate inquiries of management and the Manager of Internal and IT
Audit to determine whether there is inappropriate scope or resource limitations.

The Manager of Internal and IT Audit will have unrestricted access to, and communicate
and interact directly with, the Board.
The Board and the General Manager and CEO authorize the Internal and Information
Systems Audit Function to:

Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: 2018 Audit Charter Proposed final (3346 : 2018 Audit Charter)

Purpose and Mission

11.A.a

•

•
•

Have full, free, and unrestricted access to all functions, records, property, and
personnel pertinent to carrying out any engagement, subject to accountability for
confidentiality and safeguarding of records and information.
Allocate resources, set frequencies, select subjects, determine scopes of work,
apply techniques required to accomplish audit objectives, and issue reports.
Obtain assistance from the necessary personnel of RTD, as well as other
specialized services from within or outside RTD, in order to complete the
engagement.

The Manager of Internal and IT Audit will ensure that the Internal and Information Systems
Audit Function remains free from all conditions that threaten the ability of all auditors to
carry out their responsibilities in an unbiased manner, including matters of audit selection,
scope, procedures, frequency, timing, and report content. If the Manager of Internal and
IT Audit determines that independence or objectivity may be impaired in fact or
appearance, the details of impairment will be disclosed to appropriate parties.
All auditors will maintain an unbiased mental attitude that allows them to perform
engagements objectively and in such a manner that they believe in their work product,
that no quality compromises are made, and that they do not subordinate their judgment
on audit matters to others.
Auditors will have no direct operational responsibility or authority over any of the activities
audited. Accordingly, auditors will not implement internal controls, develop procedures,
install systems, prepare records, or engage in any other activity that may impair their
judgment, including:
•
•
•
•

Assessing specific operations for which they had responsibility within the previous
year.
Performing any operational duties for RTD or its affiliates.
Initiating or approving transactions external to the Internal and Information
Systems Audit Function
Directing the activities of any RTD employee not employed by the Internal and
Information Systems Audit Function except to the extent that such employees have
been appropriately assigned to auditing teams or to otherwise assist internal
auditors.

Where the Manager of Internal and IT Audit has or is expected to have roles and/or
responsibilities that fall outside of auditing, safeguards will be established to limit
impairments to independence or objectivity.
Auditors will:

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: 2018 Audit Charter Proposed final (3346 : 2018 Audit Charter)

Independence and Objectivity

11.A.a

•
•
•
•

Disclose any impairment of independence or objectivity, in fact or appearance, to
appropriate parties.
Exhibit professional objectivity in gathering, evaluating, and communicating
information about the activity or process being examined.
Make balanced assessments of all available and relevant facts and circumstances.
Take necessary precautions to avoid being unduly influenced by their own interests
or by others in forming judgments.

The Manager of Internal and IT Audit will disclose to the Board any interference and
related implications in determining the scope of auditing, performing work, and/or
communicating results.

Scope of Internal Audit Activities
The scope of Internal and Information Systems Audit activities encompasses, but is not
limited to, objective examinations of evidence for the purpose of providing independent
assessments to the Board, management, and outside parties on the adequacy and
effectiveness of governance, risk management, and control processes for RTD. Internal
and Information Systems Audit assessments include evaluating whether:
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

Risks relating to the achievement of RTD’s strategic objectives are appropriately
identified and managed.
The actions of RTD’s officers, directors, employees, and contractors are in
compliance with RTD’s policies, procedures, and applicable laws, regulations, and
governance standards.
The results of operations or programs are consistent with established goals and
objectives.
Operations or programs are being carried out effectively and efficiently.
Established processes and systems enable compliance with the policies,
procedures, laws, and regulations that could significantly impact RTD.
Information and the means used to identify, measure, analyze, classify, and report
such information are reliable and have integrity.
Resources and assets are acquired economically, used efficiently, and protected
adequately.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Charter Proposed final (3346 : 2018 Audit Charter)

The Manager of Internal and IT Audit will confirm to the Board, at least annually, the
organizational independence of the Internal and Information Systems Audit Function.

The Manager of Internal and IT Audit will report periodically to Senior Management and
the Board regarding:
•
•

The function’s purpose, authority, and responsibility.
The function’s plan and performance relative to its plan.

Packet Pg. 100

11.A.a

•
•
•
•

The function’s conformance with The IIA’s Code of Ethics and Standards, and
action plans to address any significant conformance issues.
Significant risk exposures and control issues, including fraud risks, governance
issues, and other matters requiring the attention of, or requested by, the Board.
Results of audit engagements or other activities.
Resource requirements.
Any response to risk by management that may be unacceptable to RTD.

The Manager of Internal and IT Audit also coordinates activities, where possible, and
considers relying upon the work of other internal and external assurance and consulting
service providers as needed. The Internal and Information Systems Audit Function may
perform advisory and related client service activities, the nature and scope of which will
be agreed with the client, provided the Internal and Information Systems Audit Function
does not assume management responsibility.
Opportunities for improving the efficiency of governance, risk management, and control
processes may be identified during engagements. These opportunities will be
communicated to the appropriate level of management.

Responsibility
The Manager of Internal and IT Audit has the responsibility to:
•
•
•
•
•

•

•
•

Submit, at least annually, to and the Board a risk-based Annual Audit Plan for
review and approval.
Communicate to Senior Management and the Board the impact of resource
limitations on the Annual Audit Plan.
Review and adjust the Annual Audit Plan, as necessary, in response to changes
in RTD’s business, risks, operations, programs, systems, and controls.
Communicate to Senior Management and the Board any significant interim
changes to the Annual Audit Plan.
Ensure each engagement of the Annual Audit Plan is executed, including the
establishment of objectives and scope, the assignment of appropriate and
adequately supervised resources, the documentation of work programs and testing
results, and the communication of engagement results with applicable conclusions
and recommendations to appropriate parties.
Follow up on engagement findings and corrective actions, and report periodically
to Senior Management and the Board any corrective actions not effectively
implemented.
Ensure the principles of integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, and competency are
applied and upheld.
Ensure the Internal and Information Systems Audit Function collectively possesses
or obtains the knowledge, skills, and other competencies needed to meet the
requirements of the internal audit charter.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Charter Proposed final (3346 : 2018 Audit Charter)

•

Packet Pg. 101

•
•
•
•

•

Ensure trends and emerging issues that could impact RTD are considered and
communicated to Senior Management and the Board as appropriate.
Ensure emerging trends and successful practices in internal auditing are
considered.
Establish and ensure adherence to policies and procedures designed to guide the
Internal and Information Systems Audit Function.
Ensure adherence to RTD’s relevant policies and procedures, unless such policies
and procedures conflict with the internal audit charter. Any such conflicts will be
resolved or otherwise communicated to Senior Management and the Board.
Ensure conformance of the Internal and Information Systems Audit Function with
the Standards, with the following qualifications:
o If the Internal and Information Systems Audit Function is prohibited by law
or regulation from conformance with certain parts of the Standards, the
Manager of Internal and IT Audit will ensure appropriate disclosures and will
ensure conformance with all other parts of the Standards.
o If the Standards are used in conjunction with requirements issued by other
Authoritative Bodies, the Manager of Internal and IT Audit will ensure that the
Internal and Information Systems Audit Function conforms with the Standards,
even if the Internal and Information Systems Audit Function also conforms with
the more restrictive requirements of other Authoritative Bodies.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Charter Proposed final (3346 : 2018 Audit Charter)

11.A.a

Packet Pg. 102

11.A.a

Approval/Signatures

Manager of Internal and IT Audit

_________________________________
General Manager and CEO

_________________
Date

_________________
Date

Attachment: 2018 Audit Charter Proposed final (3346 : 2018 Audit Charter)

_________________________________

Packet Pg. 103

11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 7, 2017

From:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

GM

Date:

December 7, 2017

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Subject:

Annual Audit Plan 2018

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2018.
BACKGROUND
The Annual Audit Plan has historically been approved by the General Manager and CEO. As a result of a
recommendation by the State of Colorado, the Board of Directors also approve the Annual Audit Plan.
DISCUSSION
The Annual Audit Plan for 2018 includes several IT Audits and Internal Audits. The plan also includes
Follow-up Audits.
The Annual Audit Plan is based on estimates of the time to complete the audits. As in past years it
utilizes every available business day. If time becomes available or if issues arise during the year, Audit
will refer to the Board and the General Manager and CEO for approval of audits to be included as
additions/replacements.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2018.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not Adopt the Annual Audit Plan for 2018. This
action is not recommended.

ATTACHMENTS:


2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
AnnMarie Isaac-Heslop, Manager, Internal and IT Audit
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 104

11.B

Packet Pg. 105

Annual Audit Plan 2018

PROPOSED

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 106

11.B.a

BUSINESS DAYS AVAILABLE IN 2018

January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December

23
20
22
21
23
21
22
23
20
23
22
21

Holidays:
Business Days Available:

261
-10
251

Holidays:
New Years
MLK
Presidents Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving & Day After

1-Jan
15-Jan
19-Feb
28-May
4-Jul
3-Sep
Nov 22 &23

Christmas Day

25-Dec

Executive Day

Between Christmas & New
Years

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

2018 without subtracting holidays

Packet Pg. 107

11.B.a

Days Available, 2018
502
-10
-10
-10
-6
-6
-10
-15
-30
-10
-50
200
545

Audit Types, 2018
IT Audits
Non-IT Audits
Total Audit Days Available:

245
300
545

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

Business Days Available
Administration
Continuing Education
Financial/Administration
Committee
Floating Holidays
Sick Days
Vacation
PTO
Consulting Services
Meetings
Audit Work Paper Review
Contract Audit
Audit Days Available

Packet Pg. 108

11.B.a

2018 Audit Plan

1. Annual Audit Plan 2019
2. Bus Operations - PCard Audit
3. Civil Rights - PCard Audit
4. Communications - PCard Audit
5. FasTracks Staffing Audit– Continuous Monitoring
6. Follow-Up on Overtime and Extra Shift Audit
7. Follow-Up Previous Audits
8. IT PCard Audit
9. Journal Entries Audit
10. Legal Counsel - PCard Audit
11. Lobbying Contracts Audit
12. Payroll Audit
13. Performance Measures Audit
14. Rail Operations - PCard Audit
15. Travel, Training and Entertainment Audit
16. Workers Compensation Audit
IT Audits
1. IT General Controls Audit- Continuous Monitoring
2. IT Asset Management Audit
3. Disaster Recovery Audit
4. Review of the work of RTDs Cyber Security – Continuous Monitoring

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

Non-IT Audits

Packet Pg. 109

11.B.a

RTD AUDIT PLAN 2018

Annual Audit Plan 2019
This is the formal part of determining the workload of Internal and IT Audit for the year
ahead.
Overall Objective:
Prepare the Annual Audit Plan for RTD for 2019 ensuring adequate coverage of high risk
areas.
Bus Operations - Purchasing Cards
Overall Objectives:
Determine that P+P exist and contain sufficient internal controls to prevent fraud loss and
misappropriation.
Ensure compliance with P Card P+Ps.
Ensure purchases are for valid business purposes only and are in RTD’s interest.
Civil Rights - Purchasing Cards
Overall Objectives:
Determine that P+P exist and contain sufficient internal controls to prevent fraud loss and
misappropriation.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

SCOPE OUTLINES
ALPHABETICAL ORDER

Ensure compliance with P Card P+Ps.
Ensure purchases are for valid business purposes only and are in RTD’s interest.

Packet Pg. 110

11.B.a

Communications - Purchasing Cards
Overall Objectives:

Ensure compliance with P Card P+Ps.
Ensure purchases are for valid business purposes only and are in RTD’s interest.
FasTracks Staffing – (Continuous Monitoring)
This audit was suggested by Management.
Overall Objectives:
Determine whether the recruitment, classification and staffing procedures are effective
and efficient.
Review the reduction of staff and the staffing of the projects remaining after 2016 for
reasonableness.
Follow-Up on Overtime and Extra Shift
Objective:
Confirm that agreed recommendations have been implemented and that policies and
procedures are in place to prevent misuse and abuse.
Follow-Up on Previous Audits
Confirm that agreed recommendations have been implemented.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

Determine that P+P exist and contain sufficient internal controls to prevent fraud loss and
misappropriation.

Packet Pg. 111

11.B.a

Information Technology - Purchasing Cards
Overall Objectives:

Ensure compliance with P Card P+Ps.
Ensure purchases are for valid business purposes only and are in RTD’s interest.
Journal Entries
Risks:




Unauthorized journal entries
Duplicate journal entries
Fraud.

Overall Objective:
Ensure that only authorized journal entries are entered in the accounting system
Legal Counsel - Purchasing Cards
Overall Objectives:
Determine that P+P exist and contain sufficient internal controls to prevent fraud loss and
misappropriation.
Ensure compliance with P Card P+Ps
Ensure purchases are for valid business purposes only and are in RTD’s interest
Lobbying Contracts

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

Determine that P+P exist and contain sufficient internal controls to prevent fraud loss and
misappropriation.

Objectives:
Determine that selection of the contractor was properly justified
Determine that purchase requisitions, contracts, and amendments were properly
approved
Verify that the cost of lobbying provides value for money for RTD.

Packet Pg. 112

11.B.a

Payroll Audit
Objectives:

Ensure all payroll deductions are accurate.
Ensure all payment for taxes are paid in a timely manner.
Ensure changes to payroll are duly authorized.
Ensure compliance with RTD policies and procedures, State and Federal laws and
regulation.
Ensure administration controls over payroll are effective.

Performance Measures
Overall Objective:
Confirm that the information provided to the Board of Directors is supported by accurate,
relevant evidence.

Rail Operations - Purchasing Cards
Overall Objectives:
Determine that P+P exist and contain sufficient internal controls to prevent fraud loss and
misappropriation.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

Ensure that payroll accurately reflects hours worked and that employees are paid in a
timely manner.

Ensure compliance with P Card P+Ps.
Ensure purchases are for valid business purposes only and are in RTD’s interest.

Packet Pg. 113

11.B.a

Travel, Training and Entertainment Expenses

Objectives:
Ensure travel, training and entertainment policies and procedures contain sufficient
internal controls to prevent misuse and abuse and to meet RTD’s needs.
Ensure expenses are reasonable, authentic and adequately supported.
Ensure compliance with policies and procedures.

Workers Compensation
Overall Objective:
Verify claims, payroll costs, class codes and subcontractor exposure.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

Not monitoring and assuring the reasonableness, completeness, accuracy and validity of
travel, training and entertainment expenses, supporting documentation, amount
expensed and expense approval could result in overpayment of expenses or payments
for non-reimbursable items resulting in financial loss to RTD.

Packet Pg. 114

11.B.a

RTD IT AUDIT PLAN 2018
SCOPE OUTLINES
IT AUDITS

Objectives:
Evaluate the adequacy of Information Technology (IT) general controls.
Review of:
 Written policies and procedures - ensure they are documented, up to date and
available.
 Program Change Controls – ensure that changes to existing systems are properly
authorized, tested, approved, implemented and documented.
 System Development/Acquisition – ensure new systems/applications being
developed/implemented are properly authorized, tested, approved, implemented
and documented.
IT Asset Management
Effective asset management will enable RTD to get:
 Value for money invested in IT Assets.
 Inventory size to match organization’s size and needs.
 Best decisions in terms of investment in IT.
Objectives:
Ensure that all hardware assets on the IT infrastructure are accounted for and are in line
with business requirements.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

IT General Controls - Continuous Monitoring:

Ensure that software asset management contributes to reduction in IT costs, reduced
risks (both legal and security) and enhances IT productivity.

Packet Pg. 115

11.B.a

Disaster Recovery

Review of disaster recovery policies and procedures related to:
 Computer Operations
 Database Controls
 Telecommunications Controls
 Network Controls
 Personal Computer Controls
 Internet and Electronic Commerce Controls.

Cyber Security
Continuous Monitoring of the Work of Cyber Security within RTD
Cyber Security for RTD consist of the mechanisms, including controls put in place to
alleviate the risks associated with the protection of allocated cyber space, information
assets, hardware, software and physical locations from misuse, disclosure, theft,
modification, damage, destruction and abuse.

Attachment: 2018 Audit Plan Proposed Final (3342 : Annual Audit Plan 2018)

Objectives:

Packet Pg. 116

11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

December 7, 2017

Subject:

Budget Transfer for Planning Grant Projects

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: December 7, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve a budget transfer of $4.664 million from the Operating Reserve to the Planning
base system expense grant project budget, effective January 1, 2018, to allow for the completion of
grant-funded projects that will not be completed in 2017. The Operating Reserve will be replenished
in the 2018 Amended Budget with the funds that were not spent on these projects in 2017.
BACKGROUND
The 2017 Amended Budget included funding for two grant-funded planning studies. The Regional
BRT Feasibility Study is funded by a DRCOG TIP planning grant for $1 million, with a local match of
$250,000 provided by RTD. The Board will be asked to approve the contract award for this study at
the December meeting. The First and Last Mile Strategic Plan is funded by $200,000 in CDOT
FASTER funding, with a local match of $200,000 from RTD. This project is in process, and the
Board was briefed on its status at the December meeting of the Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Committee.
In addition to performing its own planning projects, RTD also passes through federal grant funds for
planning studies to other entities who are not eligible to receive the grants directly from FTA. In
those cases, RTD passes through the grant funds to its partner agencies, and the agencies provide
the local match for the federal funding, for a net zero cost to RTD. The 2017 Amended Budget
included funding for 10 pass-through grant-funded planning projects related to the base system, at a
total project cost of approximately $3.55 million, including local match to be provided by the partner
entities.
DISCUSSION
The 2018 Adopted Budget assumed that all of the base planning projects would be completed in
2017, and the full cost of these projects was included in the year-end 2017 projected expenditure
for the Planning Department. However, the actual year-to-date expenditures on these projects are
approximately $540,000, and it has become apparent since the 2018 Adopted Budget was
completed that the balance of the funding will not be spent before the end of 2017. This transfer
will allow RTD and its partner entities to continue work on these ongoing projects without
jeopardizing receipt of the associated grant funds.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There will be no net financial impact to RTD. Funding for these projects was included in the 2017
Amended Budget. The savings to RTD from not completing these projects in 2017 will be carried
forward and be used to replenish the Operating Reserve at the time of the 2018 Amended Budget.

Packet Pg. 117

11.C

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve a transfer of $4.664 million from the
Operating Reserve to the Planning expense grant project budget, effective January 1, 2018,
to allow for the completion of grant-funded projects that will not be completed in 2017. The
Operating Reserve will be replenished in the 2018 Amended Budget with the funds that were
not spent on these projects in 2017.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not approve the requested budget transfer at
this time. Instead, include this request as part of the 2018 Amended Budget. This action is
not recommended since it will require RTD to suspend work on the ongoing projects, and will
not allow RTD to meet its commitments to pass through Federal grant funds to other local
entities. Furthermore, this action would jeopardize receipt of $1 million in DRCOG TIP funds
for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager, Finance and ECM
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 118

11.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 7, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 5, 2017

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Subject:

Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply
of 60 - 40' Transit Buses

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise the contract option and amend contract 13FH-053 with Gillig LLC. for the purchase of 60 additional 40’ transit buses and associated spare
components in an amount not to exceed $26,350,000.
BACKGROUND
In support of the Board adopted strategic goal of Financial Sustainability to include asset management
and state of good repair, Bus Operations is continuing the process of replacing the aging and high
maintenance Orion and older Gillig buses.
This request is for the Board’s approval of the contract amendment to Gillig to exercise the purchase
option for a quantity of 60 additional 40’ transit buses. The new buses will replace 60 exiting buses
including older 30-foot and 40-foot Gilllig buses and the remaining year 2000 Orion 40-foot buses.
The transit buses to be replaced have exceeded their FTA service life. They are comprised of 14 2000Orion buses, which are now 17 years old and have accumulated on average 733,000 miles of stop-andgo transit service; 21 2005-Gillig buses, which are over 12 years old (the FTA useful life guideline for
40’ buses) and have accumulated on average 565,000 miles of service; and 25 30-foot 2006-Gillig
buses that have exceeded their FTA useful service life guideline of 10 years and have accumulated an
average of 524,120 miles of service. This requested bus purchase is included in the adopted SBP.
On November 26, 2013 the RTD Board of Directors approved the procurement of 125 Gillig 40’ transit
buses to begin the replacement to the existing 40 foot Orion buses. The original procurement was the
result of RTD Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-FH-053 issued in May of 2013. Proposals were received in
September, 2013. The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 307 additional buses over a
five-year period. Pricing for additional option buses is based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary
price adjustment computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is
published monthly.
On June 24, 2014 the RTD Board of Directors approved a contract amendment for an additional 110
Gillig 40’ transit buses as part of the on-going replacement program.
On February 17, 2015 the RTD Board of Directors approved a contract amendment for an additional 64
Gillig 40’ transit buses as part of the on-going replacement program.
On January 19, 2016 the RTD Board of Directors approved a contract amendment for an additional 40
Gillig 40’ transit buses as part of the on-going replacement program.

Packet Pg. 119

11.D

On March 28, 2017 the RTD Board of Directors approved a contract amendment for an additional 15
Gillig 40’ transit buses as part of the on-going replacement program.
This requested purchase of additional 60 Gillig 40’ transit buses will complete the 5-year contract with
Gillig.
DISCUSSION
The 40’ transit buses are low floor for ease of passenger boarding and de-boarding. They will be
equipped with a wheelchair ramp and two wheelchair access areas to allow for ADA compliance. As
parts of our commitment to the disabled community for continued improvement of access, the buses
will feature enhanced seat layout to better accommodate passengers with disabilities and passengers
with large items such as walkers, shopping carts, baby strollers, etc. Their clean diesel engines will
meet the latest EPA regulations and will reduce exhaust emissions up to 90% from the level of the
existing buses. The buses will be equipped with an automatic passenger count system and a security
digital camera system. They will have two passenger doors and 37 passenger seats.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The requested approval is for the contract amendment to Gillig to exercise the purchase option for a
quantity of 60-40’ transit buses and associated spare components in the amount not to exceed
$26,350,000. The funding for this project is included in the adopted 2018 RTD budget.
DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, Gillig has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its DBE
plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1. To authorize the Interim General Manager to issue a contract amendment to Gillig for the purchase
of 60-40’ transit buses. This is the recommended alternative.
2. Do not authorize the contract amendment and re-solicit proposals. This is not desirable as it
would result, at the very least, in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost of
the project.

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 120

11.D

Packet Pg. 121

11.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 7, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Subject:

5311 Funding Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into funding
agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial
support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams
County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2018 and for amounts not to
exceed $379,677.00 for Boulder County, $373,346.00 for Adams County and $115,679.00 for
Jefferson County.
BACKGROUND
The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU),
along with previous transit legislation, provided for the funding of transit services in non-urbanized, or
rural, areas. The section of the Act that addressed the provision of services in non-urbanized areas was
Section 5311 and thus these services are often referred to as “5311 service.” In 2013, SAFETEA-LU
provisions moved under the new Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). Current
transportation authorizing legislation is known as the FAST Act (Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation).
Since 1991, RTD has provided funding to various private, non-profit agencies to assist with the provision
of transit services in non-urbanized areas of the District and to provide local match money for federal
grant funds to support the provision of 5311 services in the District. RTD has provided financial
assistance for the provision of non-urbanized service in Jefferson County since 1991 and has provided
financial assistance for the provision of non-urbanized service in Adams and Boulder Counties since
1993.
DISCUSSION
RTD shall contribute funding to Via Mobility Services to support the provision of non-urbanized services
in Boulder County in an amount not to exceed $379,677.00 in 2018. RTD shall also contribute funding
to Via Mobility Services to support the provision of non-urbanized services in Adams County in amount
not to exceed $373,346.00 in 2018.
RTD shall contribute funding to Seniors’ Resource Center to support the provision of non-urbanized
services in Jefferson County in an amount not to exceed $115,679.00.00 in 2018.
5311 performance will be assessed at the end of the year to determine if performance expectations
have been met and to determine if continuation of the funding agreements is warranted. Performance
will be evaluated in terms of RTD’s service standards. If it appears that service performance will not

Packet Pg. 122

11.E

warrant continuation, RTD and the affected party(s) will confer on modifications needed to bring it into
conformance. The provision of 5311 service through Q3 of 2017 has resulted in monthly performance
that has ranged from 1.4 to 2.2 passengers per hour and an RTD subsidy per passenger boarding that
has ranged from approximately $1.08 to approximately $5.62 (subsidy reflects only the RTD
contribution). As a comparison, RTD Call-n-Ride monthly performance averaged 3.5 passengers per
hour in 2016 while RTD Access-a-Ride service performed at approximately 1.5 passengers per hour.
Call-n-Ride performed at an average cost per passenger boarding of $17.92 and Access-a-Ride
performed at an average cost per passenger boarding of $44.60 in 2016.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the 5311 services were included in the approved 2018 RTD budget. This
Agreement will be for a period of one year. Nothing herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this
Agreement.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the 5311 cost sharing agreements with Via Mobility Services and Seniors’ Resource
Center so that these organizations can continue to provide transit services to individuals in the
non-urbanized, rural areas of Boulder, Adams, and Jefferson counties.
2. Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of transit services in the non-urbanized, rural areas of
Boulder, Adams, and Jefferson counties.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 123

11.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 7, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Subject:

City of Boulder Hop Funding Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the
HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for
an amount not to exceed $1,430,742.00.
BACKGROUND
The City of Boulder has funded and provided circulator bus service, known as the HOP, within the City
of Boulder since October of 1994. This service provides mobility and access to the commercial areas of
the city, the University of Colorado at Boulder, and adjacent business and residential developments.
RTD also provides extensive bus service to/from and within the City of Boulder. RTD and the City of
Boulder have worked together to assure that these services are complementary and work together to
provide attractive and effective transit service for people living, studying and working in the area.
The HOP currently operates from 7:00 AM to 10:00 PM on weekdays, from 9:00 AM to 10:00 PM on
Saturdays, and from 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM on Sundays and holidays. In addition, Night HOP service is
provided and funded entirely by the University of Colorado. Currently, the HOP provides approximately
2,800 passenger trips per weekday. RTD staff has been working with the City staff on a redesign of
HOP service for implementation in 2018.
DISCUSSION
RTD shall contribute funding to the City of Boulder to support the operation of the HOP in an amount not
to exceed $1,430,742.00 in 2018.
This Agreement will be for a period of one year. HOP performance will be assessed at the end of the
year to determine if performance expectations have been met and to determine if continuation of the
cost sharing agreement is warranted. Performance will be evaluated in terms of RTD’s service standards.
If it appears that service performance does not warrant continuation, RTD and the City of Boulder will
confer on modifications to the service in order to bring it into conformance. The provision of HOP service
through 3rd Quarter in 2017 resulted in 22.3 passengers per hour and an RTD subsidy per HOP
passenger boarding of $1.78. For comparison, RTD suburban local services performed at an average of
18.7 boardings per hour in 2016 with an average cost of $7.60 per passenger boarding. RTD urban local
services performed at an average of 26.7 boardings per hour and $5.47 average cost in 2016.

Packet Pg. 124

11.F

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the HOP service were included in the approved 2018 RTD budget. Nothing
herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this Agreement.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the cost sharing agreement with the City of Boulder for the HOP circulator bus service
so that the City of Boulder can continue to provide this service to the residents, students and
businesses in the City of Boulder.
2. Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the heavily-used HOP circulator service.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 125

11.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: November 27, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 27, 2017

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Subject:

Exercise Option for On-Vehicle Advertising
Contract

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the General Manager or his
designee be authorized to exercise the one-time extension with Lamar Advertising of Denver [Lamar] for
the two-year period January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2019.
Under the terms of the
recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $3.4 million in 2018
and $3.4 million in 2019 or 2) seventy percent of net sales, whichever is greater.
BACKGROUND
On October 28, 2014, RTD awarded Lamar the On-vehicle Advertising Contract 14DO005.This contract
provided for an initial three-year agreement with a two-year option for 2018 and 2019.
DISCUSSION
Lamar has performed well under the terms of the agreement. Regular operations to sell, produce, install,
maintain and remove on-vehicle advertising are proceeding in an acceptable manner. Consistent
communication between RTD and Lamar occurs to address any questions or challenges. Lamar has
coordinated with RTD and Denver Transit Partners on the implementation of advertising on commuter rail
service initiated during the primary three-year term. Lamar delivers the minimum revenue guarantee to
RTD at the beginning of each contract year.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
In the subsequent two-year, the minimum revenue will be $3.4M each year. Lamar has delivered the
minimum revenue guarantee each year without incident.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Award the contract extension to Lamar Advertising of Denver for the two-year period January 1,
2018 through December 31, 2019 for the exclusive sale of exterior advertising on RTD buses,
light rail and commuter rail vehicles and for the non-exclusive sale of interior advertising on RTD
buses, light rail and commuter rail vehicles. Under the terms of this alternative, Lamar would
remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $3.4 million in 2018 and $3.4 million in 2019 or
2) seventy percent of net sales, whichever is greater. This is the staff recommendation.
2. Do not award a contract extension to Lamar Advertising of Denver and reissue the RFP. This
alternative is not recommended because 1) Lamar has performed under the terms of the
agreement in the initial three-years of the agreement and 2) the contract minimum revenue
guarantees proposed by Lamar exceeded the minimum guarantee required in the RFP and there is
no indication that a higher revenue figure could be obtained.

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 126

11.G

Adrian Mabry, Manager, Project and Contract (Marketing)
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 127

12.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: November 29, 2017

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

November 29, 2017

Subject:

Recommendation for
Services Contracts

General

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017
On-Call

Construction

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award contracts to Krische Construction, Gilmore
Construction Corporation, HPM Incorporated and T-Bone Construction Inc. for On-Call Construction
Services for one year, with four optional one-year extensions. The maximum cumulative value of the
four contracts, including all optional extensions will not exceed $30 million.
BACKGROUND
RTD has long employed on-call contractors to perform construction on a work order basis for activities
like street improvements, and 16th Street Mall Repairs. We also had three contractors provide on-call
construction services over the past five years, and would like to continue that approach. The benefits of
this approach are:
 Ability to make emergency repairs quickly
 Ability to deliver smaller projects efficiently
 Shortened procurement time
 Shortened construction duration, and better quality
 Reduced public impact of projects
DISCUSSION
In September of 2017, RTD advertised a Request for Proposals (RFP NO. 17FH009) for supply/services
for On-Call Construction Services work. The goals of this solicitation were as follows:
 Provide finished products that meet RTD’s overall needs, including its Small and Disadvantaged
Business Commitment participation goals
 Meet the schedules established in the work orders
 Provide a safe and quality product
 Maximize improvements within the program budget
 Minimize inconvenience to the public
Three projects were included in the initial solicitation – Highway 287 & Niwot Road Park-n-Ride (PnR),
Thornton PnR, and Englewood Station High Block Repair.
For this contract, RTD has established a Twenty-Two percent (22%) Disadvantaged Business Enterprise
(DBE) Goal. Award of a Contract (or Contracts) from this RFP are based upon “best value” competitive
proposal procedures. The evaluation criteria were:
A. Price
40%
B. Commitment to and substantive utilization of Disadvantaged
and Small Businesses
10%
C. Submitter experience and capacity to perform Work
25%

Packet Pg. 128

12.H

D. Organization, Key Personnel, and Major Participants

25%

On November 8, 2017 five proposals were received for the value of work to be performed in the price
range of $0-$2,000,000.
1. Krische Construction
2. Gilmore Construction Corporation
3. HPM Incorporated
4. T-Bone Construction Inc.
5. B & M Construction, Inc.
The evaluation team consisted of seven RTD staff members from procurement, engineering, and civil
rights. The evaluation team met on November 16, 2017 and scored each contractor’s written proposal
according to the aforementioned criteria. The following four firms were selected:
1. Krische Construction
2. Gilmore Construction Corporation (Certified DBE)
3. HPM Incorporated
4. T-Bone Construction Inc.
These contracts will be for general construction including but not limited to grading, drainage, utilities,
paving, intersection improvements, rail repair, site-work, landscaping, small buildings, and building
repairs. One contractor will be chosen for each work order, based on the value of the work order, and
capacity of the contractor to complete the work. It is the intent of RTD to distribute work orders on a
rotational basis factoring in: work order amount, contractor (prime and sub) capacity and availability to
do the work, and cost and price agreement. RTD intends to distribute work orders on an equitable cost
basis among the four contractors. RTD will evaluate, at its sole discretion, the capabilities of the
contractor to effectively deliver the work.
The maximum cumulative value of the contracts is estimated based on the current Strategic Budget
Plan, and the Annual Program Evaluation documents.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for Highway 287 & Niwot Road PnR and Thornton PnR are included in the 2018 Adopted Budget
as capital carryforward, and these projects are supported by FASTER grants from the Colorado
Department of Transportation. Funding for the Englewood Station High Block Repair is included in the
2018 Adopted expense budget. Funding for future work orders will be included in the budgets of the
projects for which the work will be performed.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Recommended Action: It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award contracts to
Krische Construction, Gilmore Construction Corporation, HPM Incorporated and T-Bone
Construction Inc. for On-Call Construction Services for one year, with four optional one-year
extensions. The maximum cumulative value of the four contracts, including all optional
extensions will not exceed $30 million.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Bid out each scope of work. This will increase
procurement’s workload, and result in delay to the implementation of projects, which will lead to
prices going up. Experience has shown that the benefits of the on-call approach are:
 Ability to make emergency repairs quickly
 Ability to deliver smaller projects efficiently
 Shortened procurement time

Packet Pg. 129

12.H




Shortened construction duration, and better quality
Reduced public impact of projects

Prepared by:
Mitch Kuharski, Construction Project Manager
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 130

12.I

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: November 29, 2017

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

November 29, 2017

Subject:

Contract Award for the Regional Bus Rapid
Transit Feasibility Study

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a professional services contract award to
Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for assistance in the preparation of the Regional
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Feasibility Study for an amount not to exceed $1,250,000. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
BACKGROUND
By the end of 2019, many of the planned FasTracks capital projects will be in revenue service. While
the FasTracks program is not complete, it could be a number of years before the additional program
investments are financially feasible. The District now wants to explore opportunities for Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT), which offer the potential for mobility and access improvements at relatively modest
capital and operating costs. These BRT projects could include:





Projects that address existing and anticipated travel demands not met by current or
anticipated FasTracks projects;
Modest-cost BRT projects that could address travel demands that won’t be met by fiscally
constrained FasTracks but will support or transition to future FasTracks;
Projects that otherwise support or feed into FasTracks; and
BRT projects with independent utility.

As part of the transportation planning and funding process, the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) included the Regional BRT Feasibility Study in the 2016 -2021 Transportation
Improvement Program (Approved TIP). DRCOG awarded RTD $1 million in Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP) grant funds to help fund this study. RTD is providing $250,000 in
matching funds.
DISCUSSION
RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) in October 2017 for consultant services to assist with the
preparation of the Regional BRT Feasibility Study. The RFP included a 15 percent Disadvantaged
Business Enterprise (DBE) goal. A committee comprised of representatives from RTD, CDOT and
DRCOG staffs reviewed proposals submitted by consultant teams in a qualifications-based selection
process. The evaluation considered each team’s technical proposal in the areas of (1) Demonstrated
public transit agency BRT experience of personnel assigned to this project, pa rticularly the proposed
project manager; (2) Comprehensiveness of the work plan to the defined tasks; and (3) Project team
qualifications with transit-related innovation and best practices. The six proposing teams were led by
the following: AECOM; David Evans; Felsburg, Holt, & Ullevig; HDR; Michael Baker; and the
University of Wyoming – College of Engineering and Applied Science.

Packet Pg. 131

12.I

The selection committee short-listed two teams for interviews and is now recommending that a team
led by Felsburg Holt & Ullevig be approved by the Board. The committee found that the Felsburg Holt
& Ullevig team had the most relevant experience, including innovative approaches to study
preparation and BRT implementation. Staff is requesting that the Board approve this recommendation
and authorize the General Manager to negotiate a contract not to exceed $1,250,000. Upon
successful negotiations, the study will begin immediately and is expected to be completed by the
Spring of 2019. As noted above, the RFP established a 15 percent DBE goal. Felsburg Holt & Ullevig
has committed to meeting this with a DBE commitment of 15 percent.
The final product of the study will provide RTD with the identification and prioritization of corridor based or fixed-guideway BRT projects within RTD’s service area. Achievement of this goal will be
predicated upon development of evaluative criteria that can provide a quantitative and qualitative
basis for project prioritization. This study is not intended to prepare a subjectively -vetted project list,
but instead establish a technical rationale for prioritization and further policy discussion.
The proposed action fits within the General Manager Goal to Improve Service Delivery, specifically
the sub goal of enhancing or expanding operations, as the eventual completion of BRT throughout
the District will increase service reliability, ridership and cost effectiveness.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this study is provided through $1,000,000 in DRCOG TIP funds and $250,000 in RTD local
funds, approved in the 2017 Adopted Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
approve a professional services contract award to Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the
Contractor for assistance in the preparation of the Regional BRT Feasibility Study for an
amount not to exceed $1,250,000. Funding for this contract is included in the 2017 Adopted
Budget for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to approve a
professional services contract award to Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for
assistance in the preparation of the Regional BRT Feasibility Study for an amount not to
exceed $1,250,000. This action is not recommended since it will delay the procurement of
consultant services for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study, and will jeopardize the $1 million in
DRCOG TIP grant funding.

Prepared by:
Brian Welch, Senior Manager, Planning Technical Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 132

12.I

Packet Pg. 133

12.J

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

December 7, 2017

Subject:

Update to
Measures

2018

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: December 7, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Quarterly

Performance

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt updated 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures to include measures for ridership, fare revenue,
and total operating revenue.
POLICY REFERENCE
Fiscal Policy Statements – Budget Policy 10
DISCUSSION
The year-to-date performance measures provide a framework in which RTD determines how well it
provides service to its passengers and the citizens of the District within its mission statement objectives.
In 2018, 41 performance measures will be tracked for the GM.
When the 2018 performance measures were adopted by the Board in April 2017, it was stated the
following measures would be established by the financial plans inherent in the 2018 Adopted Budget.
These measures are as follows:
Goal 6.2 – Increase Ridership
It is recommended that the revenue ridership increase for 2018 be established at 3.4%. This assumes
ridership growth over 2017 will be flat on the Base System with ridership increases attributed to
FasTracks, mainly the Gold Line and A Line. This is an annual measure.
Goal 6.3 – Increase in Fare Revenue and Total Operating Revenue
It is recommended that the fare revenue increase for 2018 be established at 3.0%. This is the
percentage increase in total fare revenue in the 2018 Adopted Budget over the 2017 projection. The
increase is driven by increased ridership in FasTracks as Base System ridership and fare revenue are
projected to be flat in 2018. This is an annual measure.
It is recommended that the total operating revenue increase for 2018 be established at 2.6%. This is
the percentage increase in total operating revenue in the 2018 Adopted Budget over the 2017
projection, which takes into account incidental items of operating revenue such as advertising, joint
venture, parking, and other miscellaneous revenue. This is an annual measure.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt updated 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures to
include measures for ridership, fare revenue, and total operating revenue.

Packet Pg. 134

12.J

2. Don’t Accept the Recommendation Action. This would leave us without measures for
ridership, fare revenue, and total operating revenue.

ATTACHMENTS:


2018 updated final performance measures (PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager, Budget and Financial Analysis
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 135

12.J.a

2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT

RTD Mission Statement
To meet our constituents’ present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost-effective service throughout the District.

GOAL 1: To meet the present transportation needs of the district by providing safe
transportation service.
Objectives:
 Reduce vehicle accident ratio
 Increase preventive maintenance
 Reduce passenger accident ratio
 Improve light rail safety
 Improve employee safety

Performance Measures:
1.1 Reduce the number of safety incidents.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Vehicle Accident Involvements per 100,000 miles – Preventable1
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont
Passenger Accident Ratio per 100,000 miles – System-wide
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit - Longmont

0.9
0.7
1.3
0.7
1.3
1.0
0.14
0.10
0.212
0.14
0.202
0.0

1.02
0.89
1.48
0.97
1.26
0.80
0.10
0.12
0.16
0.06
0.08
0.17

≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18

2018
Proposed
Goal
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18

Operator-Passenger Assault Ratio per 100,000 boardings1
0.04
0.04
≤0.06
≤0.06
1 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of road, weather or
traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.
2 All of the passenger accidents were non-preventable.

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

RTD Vision
To deliver regional multi-modal transportation services and infrastructure improvements that significantly
and continually increase transit market share.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
1
Packet Pg. 136
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

GOAL 1: To meet the present transportation needs of the district by providing safe
transportation service.

1.2 Percentage of Preventive Maintenance inspections incurred as
2015
2016
scheduled every 6,000 miles.1
Actual
Actual
(Department: Bus Operations)
Percentage of Preventive Maintenance inspections incurred as scheduled
99.9%
99.9%
every 6,000 miles – system wide
RTD
99.8%
99.9%
First Transit - Commerce City
100%
99.9%
Transdev (fka Veolia)
99.8%
99.8%
First Transit – Denver
99.7%
100.0%
First Transit – Longmont
99.8%
100.0%
1 Inspections are scheduled 600 miles prior to 6,000 miles or 600 miles after 6,000 miles.

2017
Goal

2018
Proposed
Goal

98%

98%

98%
98%
98%
98%
98%

98%
98%
98%
98%
98%

1.3 Improve response time to emergency dispatch calls.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Average Response Time

19 sec.

19 sec.

1.4 Reduce the number of light rail accidents.
(Department: Rail Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

1.5 Reduce the number of commuter rail accidents.
(Department: Rail Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

2018
Proposed
Goal
≤20 sec. ≤20 sec.

2018
Proposed
Goal
Reportable Light Rail Accidents per 100,000 train miles – Preventable2
1.0
2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
2 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of road, weather
or traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.

Reportable Commuter Rail Accidents per 100,000 train miles – Preventable3
N/A
N/A
≤2.0
3 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of
road, weather or traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.

2018
Proposed
Goal
≤2.0

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
2
Packet Pg. 137
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

Objectives:
 Prompt graffiti removal
 Prompt bus interior and exterior cleaning
 Prompt shelter cleaning

Performance Measures:
2.1 Prompt response to facility complaints.
(Department: Capital Programs)

2015
Actual

Average Response Time Public Complaints
Average Graffiti Complaints per Month
Average Facilities Maintenance Complaints per Month

≤4 hours < 4 hours ≤4 hours
1.1
1.5
≤1.5
14.4
11.6
≤20.0

2016
Actual

Elevator

4.3

3.3

Snow/ice

5.7

1.7

Shelter

0.3

2.0

Other

7.0

6.3

2017
Goal

2018
Proposed
Goal
≤4 hours
≤3.02
≤20.0

1 The majority of Other is potholes and lighting.
2 Our vulnerability to graffiti has increased due to 1) total increase in linear feet from new corridors and 2) the nature of

the areas through which the new corridors travel.

2.2 Prompt response to vehicle complaints.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Average Overdue Bus Interior Cleaning per Month
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont

0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0

2018
Proposed
Goal
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

GOAL 2: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing clean
Transportation service.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
3
Packet Pg. 138
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

Objectives:
 Improve on-time performance
 Improve miles between lost service road calls
 Decrease number of missed trips

Performance Measures:
3.1 Maintain system-wide on time performance.
(Departments: Bus Operations, Rail Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Local On-Time Service – System-wide1
RTD Local
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont
Regional On-Time Service1
Light Rail On-Time Service1

85.9%
84.4%
83.8%
88.3%
88.4%
88.3%
91.9%
93.9%

85.3%
83.8%
82.8%
87.2%
86.9%
88.2%
92.1%
93.4%

88.0%
88.0%
88.0%
88.0%
88.0%
88.0%
94.0%
90.0%

2018
Proposed
Goal
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
92.0%
90.0%

Commuter Rail On-Time Service2

N/A

N/A

90.0%

90.0%

1 Bus and Light Rail are considered on-time if a departure from a location is no more than 1 minute early or 5 minutes

after the scheduled departure time.
2 Commuter Rail is considered on-time if a departure from a location is no more than 0 minutes early or 5 minutes
after the scheduled departure time.

3.2 Maintain system-wide service availability.
(Department: Bus Operations, Rail Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Light Rail – Service Available3
99.9%
99.9%
3
Bus – Service Available
N/A
N/A
Commuter Rail – Service Available4
N/A
N/A
3 Calculated as total operating hours minus service delay hours, divided by total scheduled hours.
4 Calculated as actual car miles operated divided by total scheduled car miles.

99.0%
97.0%
97.0%

3.3 Adherence to scheduled Revenue Service trip start time.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Adherence to scheduled Revenue Service trip start time – system wide
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%

2018
Proposed
Goal
99.0%
97.0%
97.0%

2018
Proposed
Goal
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

GOAL 3: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing reliable
transportation service.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
4
Packet Pg. 139
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

GOAL 3: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing reliable
transportation service.

3.4 Improve miles between road calls.
(Departments: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal3

2018
Proposed
Goal

Mileage Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (District) 1,5

36,382

49,620

30,000

30,000

RTD
Transit Bus
Articulated Bus
Intercity Bus

36,767
47,393
37,245
19,689

61,130
57,187
51,600
74,561

30,000

30,000

First Transit - Commerce City
Transit Bus

41,269
41,647

50,398
46,863

30,000

30,000

Cutaway Bus

42,917

12,608

Transdev (fka Veolia)
Transit Bus
Medium Bus

30,925
25,729
45,556

27,5824
35,905
18,110

30,000

30,000

First Transit – Denver
Transit Bus
Medium Bus

36,225
37,233
29,676

41,201
39,665
30,752

30,000

30,000

First Transit – Longmont
Transit Bus
Medium Bus
Cutaway Bus

44,908
71,185
29,424
30,483

54,069
89,608
38,771
N/A

30,000

30,000

Hours Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (Mall) 2
2,425
2,358
≥600
1 District-wide mileage between lost service maintenance road calls excludes the Mall Shuttles.
2 Maintenance effectiveness for the Sixteenth Street Mall Shuttle is measured in terms of service hours.
3 Higher goal is due to newer bus vehicles in the fleet.
4 A large batch of faulty batteries caused problem starts; the issue was resolved.
5 Average age of the fleet follows:

≥600

Fleet Average Number of Buses and Average Age6

2016
Quantity

2016
Average
Age

2017
Quantity

2017
Average
Age

2018
Quantity

2018
Average
Age

1,033

7.92

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

RTD - Boulder
RTD – Platte (including Mall Shuttle)
RTD – East Metro
First Transit - Commerce City

114
285
199

5.16
6.09
3.97

N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A

116

7.03

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

First Transit - Denver

131

8.52

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

First Transit – Longmont

79

10.96

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

109
7.15
Mall Shuttles
36
14.5
6 The Board of Directors does not adopt goals for these; informational only.

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Transdev (fka Veolia)

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
5
Packet Pg. 140
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

Objectives:
 Reduce customer response time
 Limit customer complaints
 Decrease average wait time for telephone information
 Complete installation of shelter boards by date of service change

Performance Measures:
4.1 Reduce average customer response time.
(Department: Communications)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

51

42

≤65

4.2 Reduce level of customer complaints.
(Departments: Bus Operations, Communications)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Avg. Response Time to Customer Complaints1
Average Cycle Time

7.5 days

9.5 days

RTD Transportation (Bus and Rail)
RTD All Other Departments
First Transit – Commerce City
First Transit - Denver
First Transit - Longmont
Transdev (fka Veolia)
Complaints per Boardings (District)

7.90
8.79
9.21
8.02
7.73
6.16
.0004

6.40
17.40
6.74
5.51
8.01
7.48
.0004

RTD
Local
Express

.0003
.0003
.0003

.0003
.0004
.0000

First Transit - Commerce City2
Local
Express

.0006
.0006
.0006

Transdev (fka Veolia)2
Local
Express
First Transit – Denver2
Local
Express

Average TIC Speed of Answer (in seconds)

2018
Proposed
Goal
≤65

2018
Proposed
Goal

≤ 10 days ≤ 10 days

.0004

.0004

.0005
.0005
.0000

.0004

.0004

.0006
.0006
.0006

.0007
.0007
.0000

.0004

.0004

.0006
.0006
.0005

.0005
.0005
N/A

.0004

.0004

First Transit – Longmont
.0003
.0003
.0004
.0004
Local
.0003
.0003
1 The measure reports on resolution of customer complaints across all subject matter throughout the District and the
number includes all departments utilizing TrapezeCOM system for commendation and complaint research.
2 All three carriers had a high number of complaints related to missed service or late service (no show, bus late,
discourtesy, passed up passengers at stop) along with a decrease in ridership. “No show” complaints showed an
increase most likely due to the number of routes that were dropped or returned to RTD due to lack of operator
availability.

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

GOAL 4: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing courteous
transportation service.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
6
Packet Pg. 141
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

GOAL 4: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing courteous
transportation service.

4.3 Complete installation of shelterboards by date of service change.
(Department: Customer Service)
Implementation scheduled for January 2018, May 2018, and August 2018 dates.

GOAL 5: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing accessible
transportation support service.
Objectives:
 Improve on-time performance standards
 Improve ADA trip availability
 Improve ADA courtesy

Performance Measures:
5.1 Improve ADA on-time performance.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Access-a-Ride On-time Service
1 Staffing challenges are causing fluctuations in on-time performance.

95.1%

95.3%1

96.0%

5.2 Improve ADA trip availability.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Adherence to ADA mandate to have zero denials to service request

100%

100%

100%

5.3 Improve ADA courtesy.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Average ADA complaints per boarding
2 Staffing challenges are leading to a higher number of complaints.

0.001

0.0022

0.001

2018
Proposed
Goal
96.0%

2018
Proposed
Goal
100%

2018
Proposed
Goal
0.001

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
7
Packet Pg. 142
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

Objectives:
 Maintain cost recovery ratios
 Increase ridership
 Increase farebox and EcoPass revenue
 Improve route efficiency
 Monitor selected internal functions for efficiency
 Maintain cost effective and efficient transportation services
 Hire and train competent personnel

Performance Measures:
6.1 Maintain all required recovery ratios.1
(Department: Finance)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

2018
Proposed
Goal
20%
Yes

Operating Cost Recovery Ratio
27.6%
24.5%
20%
SB154 Cost Recovery Ratio
1 Operating cost recovery ratio is defined as farebox revenues (excluding ADA), advertising revenues, and other
operating revenues divided by operating and administrative costs, depreciation on bus operations assets, excluding
ADA costs, rapid transit planning costs, and interest payments on rapid transit assets.
SB 154 Cost Recovery ratio is defined as farebox revenues (excluding ADA), advertising revenues, federal operating
grants, federal formula bus grants, other operating revenues, and investment income divided by operating and
administrative costs, depreciation on bus operations assets, excluding ADA costs, rapid transit planning costs, and
interest payments on rapid transit assets. The required ratio is 30% and the calculation will be provided with the
Financial Status Reports at the end of each calendar quarter only. Goal is whether ratio is met by yes/no indication.

6.2 Increase ridership.
(Department: Finance)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Overall Ridership Increase
2 Established with the 2018 Budget.

-1.9%

-1.6%

0.4%

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

0.0%
0.7%

11.7%
11.6%

5.8%
5.8%

6.3 Increase in fare revenue and total revenue.
(Departments: Finance, Communications)
Fare Revenue
Total Operating Revenue
3 Established with the 2018 Budget.

2018
Proposed
Goal
3.4%2

2018
Proposed
Goal
3.0%3
2.6%3

2015
2016
2017
2018
6.4 Monitor selected internal functions for efficiency.
Actual
Actual
Goal4
Proposed
(Department: Communications)
Goal
Audits
21
21
100%
100%
4 Goal changed for 2017 from number of audits to percentage completion of the Annual Audit Plan per Board approval
on 11/29/16.

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

GOAL 6: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing cost-effective
and efficient transportation service.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
8
Packet Pg. 143
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

GOAL 6: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing cost-effective
and efficient transportation service.

6.5 Maintain bus operator/mechanic headcount within authorization. 1
(Department: Bus Operations)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

2018
Proposed
Goal
≤5.0%

2
5.9%
3.7%
≤5.0%
Bus Operator – Vacancies
Bus Operator – Over Headcount
0.0%
0.0%
≤4.0%
≤4.0%
Bus Mechanic – Vacancies
10.9%
1.4%
≤7.5%
≤7.5%
Bus Mechanic – Over Headcount
0.0%
0.0%
≤0.0%
≤0.0%
1 Authorized headcount represents the level of personnel required to meet service demands in the current runboard.
2 Human Resources has been authorized to exceed authorized headcount to compensate for operator attrition.

6.6 Maintain stock-out level.
(Department: Administration)

2015
Actual

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Stock-Out Level3
1.1%
3 Calculated as number of stock-out occurrences divided by number of requests.

1.2%

≤1.5%

2018
Proposed
Goal
≤1.5%

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
9
Packet Pg. 144
December 12, 2017

12.J.a

GOAL 7: To meet the future transportation needs of the District.

7.1 Deliver civic and neighborhood presentations to communicate with
2015
2016
2017
the public regarding service issues.
Actual
Actual
Goal
(Departments: Communications, Executive Office, Bus Operations,
Planning)
Communications
373
151
§
General Manager
109
111
§
Service Change
22
14
§
Route and Service Planning
207
174
§
Local Government Planning Workshops
4
3
3
Community Advisory Committee Meetings
11
10
4
Info Rides
45
40
§
§ The Board of Directors does not adopt goals for these performance measures; for reporting purposes only.

7.2 Accurate Financial Analysis
(Department: Finance)

Distinguished Budget Presentation Award

Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in
Financial Reporting

2016
Actual

2017
Goal

Received Distinguished
Budget Presentation
Award from the
Government Finance
Officers Association in
the third quarter.
Received Certificate of
Achievement for
Excellence In Financial
Reporting from the
Government Finance
Officers Association in
the fourth quarter.

Receive Distinguished
Budget Presentation
Award from the
Government Finance
Officers Association by
year-end.
Receive Certificate of
Achievement for
Excellence In Financial
Reporting from the
Government Finance
Officers Association by
year-end.

2018
Proposed
Goal
§
§
§
§
3
4
§

2018
Proposed
Goal
Receive Distinguished
Budget Presentation
Award from the
Government Finance
Officers Association by
year-end.
Receive Certificate of
Achievement for
Excellence In Financial
Reporting from the
Government Finance
Officers Association by
year-end.

Attachment: 2018 updated final performance measures (3344 : Update to 2018 Quarterly Performance Measures)

Performance Measures:

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2018 Performance Measures (updated)
10
Packet Pg. 145
December 12, 2017

12.K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 7, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 7, 2017

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Subject:

DRCOG Vanpool Funding Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support and
expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is
for calendar year 2018 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $1,058,600.
BACKGROUND
Vanpooling is a transportation option in which commuters/employees whose residences are
geographically clustered ride together to and from their work sites in a van that is driven and maintained
by one of the vanpool participants. Typically, the vans carry from six (6) to twelve (12) riders and are
provided by the vanpool program. Vanpools are organized to be sustainable and to render regular, ongoing service to vanpool members on a break-even, cost sharing, fare basis. Vanpools eliminate the
costs associated with dedicated drivers and expensive equipment.
As a transportation mode, vanpools provide personalized transportation at low cost and offer greater
opportunities for increased capacity as compared to carpooling. Vanpools also offer a cost-effective
alternative to conventional transit service in areas of low population density and longer commute
distances.
DISCUSSION
RTD has supported the DRCOG vanpool program since 2001. The vanpool program had previously
experienced limited participation due to perceived high fares, insufficient funding for van acquisition,
difficulties in recruiting drivers, and the lack of funding to support necessary marketing activities. In
order to help overcome these barriers, the RTD and the DRCOG entered into a partnership in April of
2001 to expand vanpool service in the Denver metropolitan area. In doing so, RTD and DRCOG believed
that the organizations could make meaningful advances toward meeting shared goals of offering
desirable mobility options, reducing traffic congestion, and improving air quality in the Denver
metropolitan area. Benefits for RTD include substantial cost savings from avoidance and/or replacement
of marginal bus routes with vanpools. Benefits to both RTD and DRCOG include complementary
marketing programs and increased commuter transportation alternatives.
RTD financial support is used to help underwrite the vanpool pricing structure in order to make vanpool
fares more competitive in the transportation marketplace. By subsidizing vanpool fares, vanpools are able
to compete with other transit alternatives and are perceived as a more attractive alternative for area
commuters. In addition, RTD support is used to provide incentives to attract and retain vanpool drivers

Packet Pg. 146

12.K

and to provide capital funding to acquire necessary rolling stock to provide vanpool services. Since the
advent of RTD support for the vanpool program in late 2001, the number of vans in service has grown
from 11 to 113 active vans.
In 2009 the vanpool program became difficult to manage due to a shortage of DRCOG personnel.
DRCOG looked outside their agency at private companies currently operating vanpool services in other
metropolitan areas. After a competitive bid process, DRCOG choose VPSI to operate the vanpool
program. VPSI took over all operating aspects of the vanpool program. Currently the vanpools carry an
average of 5.5 riders per van and the fleet is at 77% capacity.
Vanpool performance will be assessed at the end of the year to determine if performance expectations
have been met and to determine if continuation of the funding agreement is warranted. DRCOG vanpool
performance through October in 2017 (thru the 3rd Qtr) resulted in an RTD subsidy per passenger seat
of approximately $3.61. For comparison, the cost per passenger boarding for RTD fixed route service in
2016 ranged from an average of $5.19 for CBD local routes to an average of $7.60 cost per passenger
boarding for suburban local service and an average of $6.58 cost per passenger boarding for regional
service.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the DRCOG Van pool program were budgeted in the approved 2018 RTD
budget. This Agreement will be for a period of one year. Nothing herein obligates the RTD to renew or
extend this Agreement.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the financial support of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool service in order to continue to
provide and expand this transportation option for residents of the Denver metropolitan area who
work/commute in the Denver metropolitan area.
2. Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program which would
result in an increase in single occupant commuting and/or increased demand on RTD to provide
service in lower population density, outlying areas.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 147

12.L

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: December 7, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: December 19, 2017

Subject:

Englewood Art Shuttle Funding Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the
Art circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2018 and is for
an amount not to exceed $336,208.
BACKGROUND
In 2003 the City of Englewood applied for and received a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ)
Grant for a circulator bus service. This grant was approved with funding available 2004-2007. CMAQ
funds were approved for 80% of the cost of the service. RTD contributed 10% of the expense and the
City of Englewood contributed 10%. The art shuttle was implemented in 2004 as a free service. In
September 2007, with the expiration of the CMAQ grant, the RTD took over funding of the Art shuttle
because the high ridership exceeded RTD’s expectations. The City of Englewood continues the
management and marketing of the Art shuttle. The City of Englewood covers all marketing and related
expenses. The Art shuttle continues to be a free service that is sponsored by the City of Englewood.
The City of Englewood reimburses RTD for the fares that would have been paid if the Art shuttle
charged a RTD fare.
The Art shuttle currently operates from 6:30 AM to 6:30 PM on weekdays. There is no service on
Saturdays, Sundays or holidays. The shuttle operates between the Englewood light rail station and
Swedish Medical Center/Craig Hospital. The Art shuttle operates as a free shuttle on a fifteen (15) to
twenty (20) minute frequency. Ridership has averaged 649.0 boardings per day or 26.8 passengers per
hour through the first three (3) quarters of 2017. In 2018, the Art Shuttle will change its name and
become the Englewood Trolley.
DISCUSSION
RTD shall contribute funding to the City of Englewood to support the operation of the Art shuttle in an
amount not to exceed $336,208 in 2018.
This Agreement will be for a period of one year. The performance of the Art shuttle will be assessed at
the end of the year to determine if performance expectations have been met and to determine if
continuation of the cost sharing agreement is warranted. Performance will be evaluated in terms of
RTD’s service standards. If it appears that service performance will not warrant continuation, RTD and
the City of Englewood will confer on modifications to the service in order to bring it into conformance.
The provision of Art shuttle service through the 3rd Quarter in 2017 resulted in 26.8 passengers per hour
and an RTD subsidy per Art shuttle passenger trip of $1.81. For comparison, RTD suburban local fixed
route service performed at an average of 18.7 boardings per hour in 2016 with an average cost of

Packet Pg. 148

12.L

$7.60 per passenger boarding. The City of Englewood will continue to pay for all fares for the Art
shuttle.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the Art shuttle were included in the approved 2018 RTD budget. Nothing
herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this Agreement.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the cost sharing agreement with the City of Englewood for the Art shuttle circulator bus
service so that the City of Englewood can continue to provide this service to the residents,
visitors and businesses in the City of Englewood.
2. Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the Art shuttle circulator service.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 149

