2021-07-08
GM Oversight & Performance Management
Committee
VINCE BUZEK: I think I'm going to wait just a few more minutes. We've got a quorum. I believe we've got
four members of the GMOC present, but we'll see if we get any stragglers coming on.
OK. It's 3:03 PM, Thursday, July 8th, 2021. I'm going to call the meeting of the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee to order and start by taking roll call.
Director Buzek Buzek is here. Vice Chair Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis? I see you connecting-- give you second. Direct Lewis, say here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, good. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. OK, everybody's here. That's great. We also have Director Whitmore present. Hi,
Troy. And are there any other Board members missing that are here? We've got staff, Ta-Shirae, and
Barbara. And we've got TransPro people.

Thanks, everybody, for being here. Apologies for a late agenda coming out to you and a late packet
coming out. We like to get those up the Thursday before, but we were working up until the 11th hour,
really, to get this packet out and get things finalized. So I appreciate your patience and willingness to be
flexible on that. Hopefully you've all had a reasonable amount of time to look through the slides that are
going to be gone over in great detail, and we'll be able to ask a lot of questions of TransPro and others as
we move through the process.
And because-- what we're going to come out of this is a full understanding of the evaluationcompensation framework, the way it's going to be working moving forward, and also discuss the
associated recommended action that we'll be bringing-- hopefully bringing-- before the Board should we
all come to consensus on what we've heard here today. So without any further interruption, Mark Aesch is
here. Mark, I'm going to turn it over to you for presentation from TransPro. Thanks.
MARK AESCH: Thanks, Mr. Chairman. And I'm joined from Katie Jurenka from our team, who's going to
help to guide technology for us. Chairman, with your permission, I've got maybe 15 or 20 minutes, I think,
of remarks that I might make, and then at the conclusion of that, be happy to go backwards and pull in
Board questions. But I think, maybe, if I can put the concept in front of the Board, that will make the
conversation more fruitful.
VINCE BUZEK: That's great. So we'll get through the presentation, then we'll go back and do questions
on any part of it. Thanks.
MARK AESCH: You bet. Thank you. So, as the Board has heard previously, RTD has engaged our team
to help support the Board and the Management team in thinking through three-- which are always very
challenging-- topics-- the first, the construction of a strategic plan, what does success look like, what are
the work activities that are necessary to be able to achieve that, number one; number two, a performance
measurement system and how do you turn that into, as the Chair suggested, a performance management
system, how does the Board and the community have the ability to oversee is management on track to be
able to deliver the strategic plan on a quarterly basis. And then the third thing that you've asked us to
support you on is how do you ultimately connect the performance management system and the strategic
plan into your CEO's performance review process, how do we connect your Chief Executive and General
Manager's success to organizational success, the realization of your strategic plan.
And there's really three components to that. The first is the performance review structure and process
itself. We talked about that the last time we were together. The second is this technology which we
shared with you, the process, the wizard that we took you through, the system to be able to conduct that
performance review. And then the third piece of the third piece is ultimately how do you connect that to
compensation, how do you begin to connect the success of the organization to the financial success of
your Chief Executive, how do you take the results of your performance review process through the
technology system that you would use to conduct a review and ultimately connect that to compensation.

So the discussion this afternoon is about that third step of the third piece, connecting compensation to the
CEO's performance review. So with that as context, Katie, I will ask you to drive us forward. And I'll work
to do this at the appropriate pace to be able to process information and then be happy to come back and
answer any clarifying questions that would be helpful from the Board. Agenda-- if you can go back for me,
Katie, just for one second, I want to set the agenda.
So, really, three pieces to what we want to put in front of you. The first is talking about a potential Board
compensation philosophy and the criticality of that being market based, particularly in regards to base
compensation, understanding with clarity where we begin. So we'll start by sharing a potential philosophy
for the Board's consideration. The second is put in a compensation structure proposal in front of the
Committee for the fiscal year that would start January 1st. So we've talked at length about the differing
years, that your CEO began the mid part of November of 2020. The anniversary year will be 2021. How
do we begin to get that on to a performance year that ties to the organization's year? So the first part of
detail I'm going to share with you is in regards to the year that is coming up, January 1st of '22 through
the end of the year, tied to your strategic plan.
And then the third topic would be in regards to compensation structure tied to the CEO's first year of
performance. You'll recall that the Committee very much wanted to have a mechanism in place to
evaluate performance through this first year. And so the third part of which we would speak is how to
potentially, for the Board's consideration, handle this year, by which would end November 8th of 2021.
Let's jump into the context.
OK. So a compensation philosophy that we have used with a number of clients and would recommend for
your consideration is, on one side of the ledger, if you would, thinking through based compensation. And
our recommendation for the committee's consideration would be to think about, as a Board philosophy,
your base compensation of your Chief Executive being consistent with market. And when we say
consistent with market, we would recommend for your consideration three inputs to be able to determine
what market is.
The first would be the market of the subject matter. In this case, you're a transit agency. So the market of
the subject matter is what does similar CEOs in this particular subject matter-- for similar-sized
organizations, similarly complex organizations, what is base compensation for those individuals? The
second input would be the market of public sector and nonprofit organizations in your particular region
because of the expertise that your CEO-- again, and this subject matter being transit, what are other
similar-sized public sector or not-for-profit organizations in that particular region-- what does that
compensation look like from a base perspective?
And then the third would be private sector organizations in a similar subject area, again, in that region, so
the ability to recognize that a talented Executive in a particular subject matter does have the ability to
navigate between public and private. How do you think about the base compensation for that particular
market? And then how do you put those three pieces of input together to be able to establish base
compensation that would be consistent with market? The outcome-- I know you've heard me talk ad

nauseam about outcomes-- but the outcome of this entire process is putting the organization in a position
that you're able to both attract, as you have, and retain high-quality talent. Base compensation is to be
able to achieve those two objectives.
The way that my Board Chair used to describe it was-- when I was a CEO-- Mark, we want to make sure
that we have you interested in coming back year after year. But if you're interested in making more
money, you've got to run a great organization, and so move to the right hand side of the conversation,
which is once you've established base compensation that is consistent with market, how does the
organization begin to think about incentivizing the success of the agency tied to the success of the
individual tied to the success of your Chief Executive?
So a couple of core principles here for the Board's-- I should say the Committee's-- consideration, how do
you begin to tie organizational success outcomes to the implementation of the strategic plan? How do you
recognize your Chief Executive for successfully focusing the organization around the achievement of your
success outcomes contained within your strategic plan? The second are the clarity of quantifiable results.
You've heard me talk in the setup to this about being verified by a third party. This is where that becomes
so critical. As you begin to think about tying compensation to actual results from the Board's perspective
and from the Management team's Executive, you do want verification that those results are as they had
been suggested to be and that the results are achievable, challenging, and also collaboratively set.
You want payments to be able to be predetermined based upon the achievement. There's not ambiguity
to it. Deliver x, get paid y. So to use an NFL quarterback metaphor here, there are many quarterbacks
that have into their contract, if you throw a certain number of touchdown passes, you get paid a certain
level of compensation as a result of that. There's clarity around what the result produces in regards to
compensation.
And then the last principle is we talk about potential philosophy for the Committee's consideration, is you
don't want your NFL quarterback to simply hit their bonus to be able to achieve the 35 touchdown passes.
You would be thrilled if they threw 45 touchdown passes. We're not opposed to this. So we want to be in
a position that overachievement is both encouraged and recognized, that if your Chief Executive does
perform at a level even higher than what you had agreed to, we recognize them for that overachievement
beyond what the expectation was. Next slide, Katie.
So four core components which we'll begin to talk our way through-- the first is the Committee, on behalf
of the Board, beginning to align in regards to the compensation that would be eligible, so how much
money, essentially, would be in play based upon moving into the next year, the next season, to continue
my football metaphor, if I can. So what's the amount of money that might be available in regards to the
CEO's consideration? The second is determining what will be the divide, based upon that percentage of
money, between base compensation and incentive compensation. If the Board were to adopt the
philosophy that you want to pay to market, it's important that we think about the base compensation not
either getting behind or getting ahead of what base compensation would require it to be tied to market. So

how do you begin to think about that divide between base compensation and incentive compensation to
honor the left-hand side of the slide that I spoke to?
The third is determining those measurable success outcomes. How do we begin to tie the success of your
Chief Executive's performance to the success of the organization contained within your strategic plan?
And then the fourth is the importance of a conversation between your GMOC Chair and the Board Chair
to the General Manager. Sadly, there are too many organizations that align around how they're going to
evaluate their Chief Executive and fail to tell their Chief Executives-- so the importance of having that
clarity of communication in regards to how they'll be evaluated at the end of the year. Next slide.
So three pieces that I would speak to to begin to set this up from theoretical into actuality for the fiscal
year that would begin January 1st of 2022. So this would be for looking forward. This is the second
agenda item that we're putting in front of you for conversation. So if we think about the first topic, which is
how does the agency begin to align around compensation that would be eligible for your Chief Executive
to earn based upon a variety of factors, you can see that we're recommending for your consideration 15%
of the contracted base is the amount of resources that would be available for the Board's consideration.
Something the Board and the committee could consider would be the importance of doing a
compensation analysis as you go forward. What truly is market, and how do you think about that? For the
purposes of this, we're recommending that you think about 15% being the amount of resources that would
be eligible for discussion. Moving to the second topic, the middle of this slide that you can see, we're
recommending for your consideration in the year that would begin January 1 of '22 that that would be
equally split, half of it going to base compensation-- 7.5%-- and half of it going to incentive compensation- a one-time payment. And it would urge both the public and the Board to recognize the distinction
between incentive compensation, of which there's a predetermined objective that needs to be achieved,
versus a bonus, which is entirely subjective in nature. There's clarity over the number of, quote,
"touchdown passes" that are required in order to earn that one-time payment.
And then finally is the determination of the measurable outcomes to be able to earn the dollars that are in
columns A and B. So we're recommending for this Committee's consideration that of the 7.5% would be
eligible for base compensation, that would be equally split between two factors. The first would be
objective in nature, the realization of those success outcomes contained in the strategic plan. The second
portion of that 7.5%-- 3.75%-- would be subjective in nature, based upon the Board providing feedback to
the CEO of her performance, consistent with the organization's values. Did she deliver the first portion,
the objective criteria, consistent with the spirit which the Board has laid out?
Beneath that you can see that the second portion from column B, the 7.5%, would be incentive
compensation, one-time payment, that would be based upon objective criteria-- produce 35 touchdown
passes, earn a certain amount of predetermined money against the incentive compensation in an
objective fashion. Next slide.

So now, as we begin to pull that apart, this would be the 3.75% of the objective criteria, the fact-based
results, based upon the outcomes that the organization is being asked to produce, consistent with your
strategic plan. And I'm not going to read this whole slide to you. You've heard me say it 17 times, and so
it's not worth reading your entire way through. What you will see, however, is we have recommended for
your consideration dividing the 3.75% eligible for base compensation. Based upon objective criteria, it is
weighted consistent with the criteria in your strategic plan. So the importance of community value is
weighted in a different way than, perhaps, employee ownership or how we think about finance in
particular.
So you can see in the right-hand column that the weighting of the 3.75% is consistent with the weighting
of the success outcomes contained in your strategic plan. Again, to put a bow on this, this is in regards to
the 3.75% for base compensation based upon objective criteria. If we move to the other side of this
equation on the next slide, we're now thinking about the subjective criteria, 3.75%, at the Board's
discretion based upon the way the CEO-- the spirit of engagement to produce those outcomes.
So there is 3.75% that would be eligible to be earned here. If the Board were to rate the CEO as neutral,
she would earn 50% of that 3.75%. If the Board were to rate the CEO as either agree or strongly agree,
she would be able to earn the full amount of that 3.75%, again, tied to the subjective criteria of the
Board's determination based upon the spirit of engagement against the values that are in the strategic
plan for base compensation. I think I got that sentence right. A lot of factors in play, but I think I got it all
correct-- moving to the next slide.
So what I just shared was the 7.5% that would be eligible starting for the fiscal year January 1, 2022, in
regards to base compensation. This is the algorithm that could be utilized in regards to incentive
compensation based upon objective results. So like there were 7.5% that was eligible for base
compensation, there is 7.5% that is eligible for the achievement of success outcomes, the realization of
the strategic plan.
On the left-hand side, you'll recognize the four criteria, community value, customer excellence, employee
ownership, financial success. You'll note that they are weighted consistent as you're considering for your
strategic plan. There is a clear definition of success in regards to what the goal is. The incentive
compensation is divided equal-- is divided proportionally based upon the way the criteria are weighted, so
it's consistently weighted.
And then, as I said, at the outcome, if she were to achieve each of the four categories directly aligned
with what the goal is set, she would be able to earn a 7.5% one-time payment. But, again, it's in the
agency's best interest and in the Board's best interest to achieve beyond those particular goals. You
would love to have one of these, particularly the heavier weighted ones, to see over-performance. So you
can see on the far right-hand side, we're recommending for your consideration that rather than a 5%
improvement in either community value or customer experience, for example, if there is a 7.5%
improvement, there's the ability to earn an additional one-time payment. Incentive compensation would

not go to base salary, but you're incentivizing the CEO and her Management team to over-perform in
regards to these goals.
And what typically pays out, I will share for the Board, is in one area your CEO will likely over-perform in
another category, will likely achieve the goal that's in place, and in other sections, will miss. And the
whole purpose of weighting these is the concept of you want your CEO and Management team to get the
most important things and actually over-perform against them. It's in the community's best interest and
certainly the agency's best interest to enjoy that over-performance. Next slide, please.
So that's for the year that would start January 1st of 2022. The Board and this Committee has expressed
interest in an evaluation criteria in regards to the anniversary date, the one-year anniversary date, of your
Chief Executive, which will be November 8th. This is the structure by which we would present for your
consideration-- and happy to respond to questions-- in regards to the year that will end November 8th of
2021.
So we're suggesting for your consideration that there would be a compensation pool that would be
available that would be 15% of the contracted base based upon the first year's performance. Because we
did not have incentive compensation opportunities that were in place for this first year, our
recommendation for your consideration is that would all be eligible into the base compensation
component and there would be none eligible for incentive compensation, because we had not established
incentives. And then, finally, on the right-hand side, we're recommending that 7.5%, half, would be based
upon the evaluation criteria that this Board had in its job description, and 7.5% would be based upon the
personal attributes of the CEO. I had shared that with this committee as we designed the evaluation
process, and I'll share with you again what that would look tied to the compensation component. Next
slide.
So as you think about the first 7.5% that would be available, it ties to four criteria which you had in your
job description when you hired your Chief Executive, General Transit Management, Internal
Relationships, External Relationships, and Board Interactions. If your CEO were to be weighted as
neutral by the Board, she would be eligible for 50% of the 50% of the compensation pot that would be
available based upon the one-year anniversary date. If the Board were to rate her as agree or strongly
agree against these four criteria, she would be eligible for the full amount that would be connected to this
7.5%, entirely subjective in this first year, tied to her evaluation of this one-year anniversary date.
On the second component, if we move to the next slide, these are the personal attributes. And I won't
read them all to you. You can see for your sense. But one of them is that she approaches her work with a
high energy level, a sense of urgency, maturity, integrity, and ethics that are above reproach. There
would be 7.5%-- again, the second half of the 7.5%-- 15%-- tied to these personal attributes. Again, if the
Board were to rate the CEO as neutral, she would be eligible for 50% of that 7.5%. And if the Board were
to rate the CEO as agree or strongly agree on an aggregated basis, she would be eligible for the full 7.5%
of this criteria of her anniversary date tied to the values, the personal attributes, that were included in your
job description.

I know I promised 15 or 20 minutes, Mr. Chairman, and I think I went a bit beyond that. Hopefully, I was
able to get the sentences all right. You'll forgive me if at any point in time I misspoke. There were a lot of
moving pieces to get connected there, but I think I got it right and be happy to provide any clarification to
the Committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, Mark. I appreciate that. And just up to the rest of the Committee, the
GMOC and the Board Chair, we've worked on this over the holiday weekend and put a lot of thought into
this. But I think, personally, the two biggest things, particularly for the 2022 compensation time frame, are
the compensation eligible and the ratio. And I guess that comes into play also in the 2021 evaluation. The
ratio between, in 2021, the evaluation criteria, and the personal attributes, and the amount at play, the
15%, that number was achieved looking at some metrics, looking at some comparable agencies and how
their GMs have moved up, and salary increases, and all that kind of stuff. So we didn't pull a number out
of thin air, but it was definitely something we really need to discuss. So that being said, I'm going to open
this up now for discussion. Director Dishell, you're up first.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Buzek. I have three questions slash comments. The first is I'm
pretty firmly opposed to incentivizing banking half a million dollars in the way that it's currently laid out. I
believe it's as if we bank a half a million dollars, it's incentivized compensation. I think that just, frankly, is
not great policy. I think it is a fiscally conservative policy.
But I think it also means that we could choose not to hire 10 operators, at least, to hit a bonus. And I think
that that's maybe not the right subject for over-performance in that category. And maybe if we just put it
in, the community value index would reappropriate that. The second is a question for our General
Manager, which is a preference-- do you happen to have-- I know some people prefer having a smaller
raise versus a larger one-time bonus. And I just want to make sure that we are not making an assumption
that our General Manager would prefer a larger one-time bonus versus a raise, and how that all plays out,
and how we could move those [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr Chairman, if I may address the Director's questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, Ms. Johnson, please do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So a couple of contextual remarks for me, keeping in mind when Chair Buzek spoke
to he and the Chair of the Board, working over the weekend, I was consulted as relates to this. And this
was done in an open and transparent conversation. With that as a backdrop, I want to clarify a comment
you made. I'm not seeking a bonus, recognizing this is incentive-based compensation for work that would
be done.
I recognize I'm a public servant. I knew that in which-- I knew that when I decided to enter this field, and
I'm very cognizant of public perception and being a good steward of dollars. Hence, that's why the
compensation structure is put forth. It's based upon actual deliverables that will take place amongst the

organization as a whole. With this as a backdrop, my intent is to convert this culture to be one of high
performance, where we would pay for performance and individuals would be in line in the same manner
in which I would be doing to basically garner a higher level of productivity, per se.
So with that as a backdrop, as we look at base compensation and things along those lines, I would
implore you to do a compensation study. When I entered negotiations in good faith, I recognized the
period of time in which we were in, and recognized that I was on the lower end. But I enjoy what I do.
Hence, I'm not here to make a half a million dollars, and this wouldn't get me there, just as a point of
clarity, if you look at the context of my employment contract. So with that as the backdrop, not seeking a
bonus, would like a portion of my base salary as it relates to the duration of my employment contract to
be taken into consideration. Because if you all are so inclined-- which I urge you to do a compensation
analysis-- you will see that you're getting a good bang for your buck. So with that as the backdrop, I am in
support of what is outlined here. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Ms. Johnson. Director Dishell, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. And the only other thing I want to comment on is are there plans to-or I guess, take a step back. How are our staff compensated? And it sounded like you might have alluded
to it, that it might be similar to do incentive based pay, similar to what we're outlining here, because I
would love to be able to, sort of-- should we get any pushback from the public, be able to stand back and
say, you know what, RTD is a great place to work. We incentivize high performance. And it's not just our
General Manager and CEO who is incentivized for high performance, it's up and down. And I know the
Union's probably different than everyone else. And I have no idea if you're allowed to comment on that in
a public forum like this, but just for my own edification.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Buzek. So recognizing, Director Dishell, when I
came into this organization, we were in the midst of a pandemic, and there were no salary increases,
from my understanding. Customarily, a salary increase was provided, and it wasn't performance based.
There were performance appraisals, but if, in fact, one person was doing one job, and one person was
doing another head-and-shoulders above the crowd, it was equally distributed and was qualified as a
merit increase. That is my understanding.
I would ask General Manager-- sorry, General Counsel Snyder-- if she had any clarification as relates to
that. But that's the information in which I was provided. Hence, I've been talking with my leadership team
about the need to go to pay for performance as we look to retain high-performing employees, as well as
ensuring that we are an optimal place to work. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell, you have the floor still.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, I'm all set.

VINCE BUZEK: You're good? OK. Thanks, and I appreciate those questions. And Ms. Johnson, I
appreciate your statement that you are moving the employee side of things to pay your performance over
what it was in the past. I think that's important. I have Director Sloan as up next.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, thank you, Chair Buzek. First, I would like to just make a comment that the
structure set out in the slide deck is completely in line with what the Audit Committee in 2010 anticipated.
In fact, I think it's more tied to data than anything they would have thought of, which is excellent. Another
question is, simply in context, according to the General Manager's contract, there is a cost of living
adjustment built in every year. And is it anticipated that this 15% would be on top of any COLA?
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Aesch-- I'm sorry. Let me clarify the question. So your statement is that the Executive
Manager's contract calls for a COLA increase?
MARJORIE SLOAN: It's my understanding that it does.
VINCE BUZEK: And Ms. Snyder, is that accurate? I don't have it in front of me.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair, that's accurate. And that's why B-- in Exhibit B to the Amendment,
it reflects-- when we're talking about the potential 15%, it's saying that that's in addition to the annual cost
of living adjustment.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So there, I think, is your answer, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: It is an answer. I would just like to point out and really add on to what the General
Manager said, there are some years that in spite of excellent performance across the board, that there is
no funding to provide anything, even a COLA, and much less base percentage or an incentive
percentage.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for the comments. Ms. Snyder, can you tell me-- again, I'm sorry. I don't have
the contract in front of me. What is the COLA? What was the percentage?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Thank you, Mr Chairman. So there is not actually a percentage. It's tied to the
Denver-Boulder cost of living. Which is set in the contract.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: And so just to be clear for the record, that is separate and apart from the
incentives. So that's not in play at this point.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So something that we can take into consideration as we move this discussion
forward, OK. So Director Lewis-- oh, I'm sorry, Director Sloan, is that good? Are you-- do you have more?

MARJORIE SLOAN: I think it is something that we should consider as we go forward with 15% in years
that we can't predict.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Understood. Director-- oh, and one more thing. Director Sloan, thank you so much
for bringing up the 2010 state performance audit. There was a separate audit on Executive compensation
practices at RTD. And any staff can get you copies-- anyone copies-- of that. But it did have a lot of
recommendations with regard to things that RTD was doing and not doing, principally. And I would agree
with Vice Chair Sloan that we've done a tremendous job here, particularly, in addressing a lot of those
recommendations. I think we're in good stead now. That said, Director Lewis, you're up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. First and foremost, I really appreciate this. And to Director
Sloan's point, this does really align with the 2010 audit. And, of course, we have a lot of work to do from
that report, but I think we're in a good place. I did have a question from packet page three. When we were
looking at the-- if we might pull it up. I don't know if it's necessary, but I can pull it up here. So sorry.
MARK AESCH: It's all right. I think Katie's pulling it up for us. Are you speaking of our slide three?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, your slide three. It says here market of private sector organizations in similar
subject. Did you all-- was that just specific to transit, or is that expansive of transportation?
MARK AESCH: No, so we do this work in several topic areas. And so you'll note that we-- obviously, with
you all, we're speaking specifically of transit. But when we think about Executive compensation and a
Board philosophy, again, for your consideration, in this case, clearly, your CEO would be qualified to go
lead a similar organization in a similar space, in regards to transportation in the region from a private
sector basis.
So we take these three factors that you can see on the slide and use all of them to inform what could be
appropriate base compensation for the Board's consideration. But the most important part is-- and I think
this was spoken to, to the Chairman's point in the state audit that has been referenced several times-- the
importance of having a Board philosophy in regards to compensation. And that's what this slide speaks
to.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And that's what I hoped for, and I assumed as much. And I appreciate it.
That actually takes me into my next question around the Board compensation policy. And I'm curious to-I'm in support of it because it does align with what was presented within that 2010 audit. And I'm curious
as to how is that-- one, is that an ask of you all in terms of a recommendation? And if so, what would be
the next steps to make that, to begin to get those things flowing?
MARK AESCH: And I apologize. I missed the first part of the question. What was the core of the
question?

SHONTEL LEWIS: About the Board compensation philosophy. How-- about the Board compensation
philosophy. My understanding from the 2010 audit is that is something that the Board should have in
existence. And so I was curious as to what steps it might take to begin to move that forward so that is in
existence and we are in compliance, if you will.
MARK AESCH: Got it. Appreciate the question. So we were unaware that there was a 2010 audit when
we developed this for the Committee's consideration, but we consider it to be best practice for the Board
to have a compensation philosophy. So we were presenting this regardless of the audit. The good news
is the audit happened to call for it. And so we would recommend for your consideration that this would be
that philosophy.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. Well, I don't know the proper steps, but I will say that I am supportive of that
recommendation because I do think it's important for us to have that in places at Board. The second piece
is, you all mentioned, the compensation analysis for the base compensation, specifically, and I am very
interested in that. And I would be supportive of a compensation analysis. It sounds like that actually hasn't
been done in quite some time. I can't remember if the audit said 2009 or maybe earlier, so it sounds like
we might be due as we are doing other analysis within the agency, such as the Fair Equity analysis.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Lewis, I seem to recall-- that sounds like an echo coming from you over
the years. You were one of the ones, I think, that really wanted a compensation analysis performed, and
a number of other Board members as well. And that's definitely something we need to look at, especially
in light of how we determine this amount of money that we put at play every year, how we particularly
divide that ratio, you know.
Now we're proposing for the first year-- the second year as well-- looking at a 50-50 ratio between the
base and the incentive. But at some point in time, you know, we're going to get to the point where the
base is really creeping up to, kind of, get our General Manager out of the reality zone, probably. So we
might want to swing things in the future to maybe 20% goes to base and 80% is incentive dollars at risk.
Anyway, I guess we'll think about that as we move forward.
I think for today, we really need to have the discussion about the amount of the compensation, that that
ratio is at 15%. Is that good? Is it something less than that? And I know that the members of the GMOC
and the members of the Board that are also here present will recall our discussions in the Board last year
when we were talking about compensation. And although the Board has changed a little bit, there was
some people that really thought that the compensation package was pretty generous.
That's just perception, I know, and we have to defend this to our public, so we really need to be
comfortable with what we come up with here. So I'd really like to get some more discussion around the
compensation percentage eligible and also the ratio between incentive and base. So anybody want to
weigh in on that? Let's start with the compensation eligible, that 15% number that we've thrown out there,
and keeping in mind Director Sloan's comments about-- there's also in the contract this cost of living
accelerator that's built into the contract as well.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Before moving-- I appreciate you moving the conversation in that
direction, and before you do so, I just really want to underscore the importance of having that
compensation analysis. And maybe that won't help us in this time, in this moment, but definitely in the
future it might help us in our discussions as well as ensuring that when we are doing our benchmarking
that we're not only comparing that-- which is why I asked the question earlier about was that specific to
transit or was that more expansive-- not just having that benchmarking comparative to other transit
agencies, but it's more expansive to that.
I'll conclude with your question around the 15% because I do think it's a good question. And I did some
research on my own to see if there are best practices in terms of if there are percentages for CEOs,
especially CEOs with the kind of experience and competencies that our General Manager has, and
comparing that with-- I think it's our responsibility, really, to compare that with the labor market and the
going rate for CEOs.
And so it's a bit different than us having a conversation about someone who might not be a CEO, for
example, myself as a VP, because maybe we are much more common than a CEO, especially when
we're talking about the public sector and the private sector or similar size agencies to ours as directors,
while recognizing-- and Director Dishell probably can speak to this better than I because I've only worked
in the nonprofit world. I've been told that the compensation when you aren't a public servant is a little bit
higher on the private side than in the public side. And so I personally recognize that this percentage is
really about circumstance and us really wanting to remain competitive in terms of what we are providing
to our CEO so that he or she doesn't flee and go to another agency.
And we're really beginning to build as an agency and see those success outcomes in metrics really come
to life, so that those that really rely and depend on our services have access to it. And so personally, for
me, I have no objection to the 15%, specifically in how this 15% is broken down between 2020 and 2021,
and then 2022 and moving further. That concludes my remarks.
VINCE BUZEK: And Thanks for that. And I do appreciate that. And as someone that dislikes sports
analogies, I'll use one. So for Mrs. Johnson to get that 15%, it's got to be a grand slam, out of the park
kind of thing. So keep that in mind as well. And I hope she-- hope she's a heavy hitter.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's my understanding that she was consulted in this, and I trust that the Board
believes in our leadership because we hired her. And so I trust that if she feels like she's up for these kind
of metrics, and this 15% and what it's attached to, this objective and subjective criteria, I'm game in
whatever way I'm needed to support her to meet those metrics.
VINCE BUZEK: That's great. And we all need to be comfortable in supporting our General Manager and
defending the numbers, right, because we've taken a lot of heat publicly and in the press in the past for
this very issue. So, anyway, thanks, Director Lewis. Director Dishell, you're up next.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Maybe it's a question for council, which is, from an administrative
standpoint, what do we need to do to get a market-- a compensation analysis done? Because just from
my own quick googling, we are below market. Seattle Sound is at 380. Austin, I saw, was at 317 last year.
And we are a bigger and different district with other challenges. So to also back up Director Buzek's point,
we need to be able to defend it, and I think-- what do we need to do to actually make that happen/occur?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Thank you. Mr. Chair, if I may? Yes, I think as I'm understanding the
recommendation from TransPro, they are recommending that the Board actually retain an outside
independent consultant to do that analysis. So Director Dishell, we would just follow our typical
procurement procedures to retain someone to do that.
BOBBY DISHELL: So no extra action is needed?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: No, not at this time.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Great. And, yeah-- I mean, I think. Just want to clarify, fully in support of moving
forward and increasing base, and if it gets to a point where we're paying, god forbid, above market and it
becomes too far above market, then we can always re-evaluate. But I think getting to market is a really
important place to start. And I would hate for us to lose incredible talent over what is realistically five or 10
grand, because I can say with 99% confidence it costs more than five or 10 grand to go do it again.
VINCE BUZEK: Definitely. Thanks for those comments. And Director Lewis, I meant to follow up on one
of your comments about the compensation philosophy. And my understanding is as part of the
recommended action, it will come before the Board. It's not just the adoption of the evaluation criteria and
the compensation framework. It's also all these other things, like the comp study and the adoption of the
philosophy as well. And if it's not, we'll make sure it's in there. But I agree with you that we need to adopt
that philosophy and make sure that that's something we have moving forward. All right. Director Sloan, I
think you're up.
MARJORIE SLOAN: This is just another comment. And this is in support of CEO/GM Debra Johnson.
She is really stepping forward here and putting her performance on the line. In my experience, people
usually get rave reviews just to make them feel better about their position. This one, the evaluators will
know if there's real money attached to each of their decisions and will be much more cautious than
ordinary evaluations. So for that, I have to compliment Ms. Johnson for, essentially, her courage and
making-- she knows her performance is going to be good. So thank you for that.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Vice Chair Sloan. Does that conclude your comments?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, it does.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Catlin, you're up next.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'm taking a big risk appearing on camera, number one, and even trying to
articulate anything today after having driven 14 hours across three states to get to Madison, Wisconsin,
and losing my cell phone in the process. So I did the bulk of the driving. I am utterly exhausted. And so,
sorry to air my personal laundry, but I've done a lot of thinking about this in the car at 3 o'clock in the
morning.
I am fully, fully supportive of this methodology. It's very familiar to me. It's what I experienced in the
private sector, and really tying everything to performance metrics. I am very nervous about-- we have all
of these systems in place, and all of these measurements in place, but the public and the politics of it are
that we are starting here and we're going here. And I'm just worried about managing the message.
I mean, we are looking at a grand slam walk off in the ninth-- throughout the course of the season-- for
our General Manager CEO. And I have every bit of confidence that she will achieve that, but I'm really
concerned about the message of RTD Board approves up to 15% compensation for highly compensated- public doesn't know-- GM/CEO Debra Johnson. So to reiterate what Director Lewis said, this analysis
and the compensation comparison across the Board of like agencies is vitally important.
And I think what we learned when we were negotiating the original contract with Debra was that there
were too many people that were quick to point to other executive directors in the region of other agencies
like CDOT that's legislatively-- or set by the governor. Now we know that the new CEO of DEN (Denver
International Airport) is going to be compensated quite a bit less than what we're proposing here. And so I
think we just have to be so careful in the messaging.
It's just making me a bit nervous, right now, about doing the legwork to make sure-- and I appreciate that
the Chair of-- you and the Chair have really worked together with Ms. Johnson to develop this-- and with
TransPro-- to develop this methodology. But I think we have to work really hard to establish the credibility
of said methodology. So I'm going to quit. Sorry, again, I'm not very articulate.
But, again, I'm very, very supportive of the methodology. It's something much more substantial and
concrete than we have had in the past. And I think it does really speak to the issues that were raised in
the 2010 audit. So kudos to everybody who has participated in developing this methodology. I'm just
really concerned about the messaging at this point. And that's incumbent upon us to prove it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Catlin. I'll have to put you on the spot. So the 15% compensation
eligible, you're OK with that, and it's just a messaging issue? Or is the-- here's a legal reference, is the
jury's still out?
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me. I am very comfortable with moving forward from 20-- from January 1st of
2020 to forward. I'm very comfortable with that. I'm a little nervous that we've all agreed that the
performance for this year ending on November 8th is tied to mostly subjective matters, and that 15% is a
little bit high in my view for subjectivity.

We're still in the honeymoon phase, and it's been great with Debra Johnson. I'm not sure if the public will
see it that way. So I think there's some risk there. I'm very supportive of moving forward with that number,
just a little bit nervous about this first year because, as we all acknowledged in our Board retreat, we don't
have any data. We have been-- and we're working toward establishing that data. So I'm very, very
comfortable going forward that we've got a great place that we're starting-- from which we're starting. I'm
just a little bit nervous about that first year.
VINCE BUZEK: I appreciate—
PEGGY CATLIN: But it is pretty much subjective. I know where I would fall, but that's a risk that we have.
Thank you for asking.
VINCE BUZEK: Right, thanks. Yeah, I appreciate that. And I don't know if the risk is more on us or more
on Ms. Johnson. Anyway, but there's a risk. So I appreciate those comments. Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
you're next.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I'm going to let Director Bouquet go first, please.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Director Bouquet, would you mind going?
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Thank you. Yeah, I think a big-- now kind of going off Director Catlin's point of
how does this message to the public, and I think Director Dishell shell kind of brought this up-- is if I'm
looking from a public perspective, an outside perspective, and we're seeing that the CEO and the GM of
RTD is getting, potentially, a 15% raise-- that's how it's going to be interpreted to the public-- I'd be asking
myself how are the employees, how are the operators of RTD getting compensated over x amount of
time. I think that's a big thing.
And as a working class individual, as an individual who-- I probably will never be a CEO and probably
don't have those desires, but I will always empathize with our operators, in which that's kind of a question
of am I going to be evaluated on the same standards that my CEO is going to be-- basically, not the same
standards, but kind of the same idea of performance space-- and at the same time, do I see that translate
that from the top to the bottom would kind of be my message. It's not necessarily just a question. I think
it's more of a comment of if our CEO is getting compensated, how, in the same time period, are we
helping out the operators, the lifeline, the daily workers over that same time period? And I think that's a
question that we, as a Board, have to be able to defend during that time period of-- you know, if one ship
is rising at the very top, how are our operators rising as well? That would be my only comment.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I believe you're up now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let me pre-apologize in case you get serenaded with
the guitar from a four-year-old. But I'm going to just say a couple of things. I first of all want to thank Chair

Buzek, and Mark, and the General Manager for sitting down and being willing to meet during the holiday
weekend and to work out all of these things.
We did a lot of work and research when we came up with the salary range for our CEO when we hired
her last November. We did a lot of work. We did a comparison. We really looked at everything. And we
knew we were below the market. But I have to say that some of the things that have occurred since that
time is that we have gotten an absolutely stellar leader in place that has really come forward and
achieved all of the goals I had in my head in terms of being able to move this agency forward with strong
leadership, of which there was a real lack of.
When you look at-- one of the first things we did was go through the state audit. And then reading the
Audit Committee report from 2000 to 2009, it is completely different today where we're working. The
strategic plans that we're doing are very different than had been done in the past. So we are doing really
serious systemic changes. With that, I am so comfortable saying to the community that we are working in
excellence, and we're going to build that up even more. And if you remember, one of the criterion when
we were hiring Ms. Johnson was a real issue around a good relationship with our unions. That clearly is
there.
And I think that we are at the place where we're setting the baseline of excellence and how we want to
move forward as this agency. And so I am absolutely fine with the 15%, knowing that there is also, at the
same time, evaluation of every department, what's happening, how they're being compensated. The
union contract will be coming. So it's not like it's a stagnant component. It's a piece of the whole
aggregate part of it. So I'm OK with it.
I think the message is very important, Director Catlin, absolutely, but I think it's a message of strength and
really looking forward to excellence in building that in the community, serving everyone. And I think we
have the information to show that we are in play. We're not just talking about it, we've got actual direct
information with all of our ad hoc committees, our peer reviews. I mean, we have done an amazing
amount of work in a very short period of time, and it's all been done under the leadership of this General
Manager. So I'm pretty comfortable with taking that on. So Mr. Chairman, thank you so much. I'm in
support.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. And to highlight the messaging issue and-- I don't know who
brought it up first. Director Catlin, I think you were talking about it. It's going to be really important
because a lot of what Ms. Johnson has been doing this first year isn't really sexy. It's changing the entire
philosophy of the organization, and every bit of that takes energy, and effort, and leadership, not
pandering, but true leadership.
So that's going to be important in the messaging because the public doesn't see this stuff, right? We all
see it. We see it all the time. And the public, you know, they see buses and trains going by. And they see
empty buses and trains. And they see not a lot of people riding. So a lot of times the public perception will
be at this simple level because that's all they see, and they don't know the million moving parts behind the

scenes that Ms. Johnson has been tinkering with. So, anyway, that's just trying to put a point on the
messaging part of this whole thing.
Director Whitmore, I know you're not a member of the General Manager Oversight Committee, but we
rely so heavily on your insight, your sage advice. So what do you think? I'd like to get your input.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Have you been drinking already today?
VINCE BUZEK: I wish.
TROY L. WHITMORE: You know, I just wanted to observe and do a check-in. I haven't participated much
with this. And I know how busy Chantelle is. And she's my buddy, so I'm saving her a little bit of briefing
time. But this is extremely helpful as we move ahead, the non-members of the committee, to kind of
understand where you're coming from. I don't know that I have any other questions. I appreciate Mark's
presentation. It was very helpful.
And I certainly agree with Director Catlin and Director Lewis. We will have to be very cautious and upfront
about this incentive program that tends to look like a 15% rate change, to Julien's point as well. So we
have to proceed with caution. On the other hand, to Angie's point and others, this is extremely well
crafted, and there's metrics that justify everything. If we do it the right way, and with Mark's help and you
guys' good work, I can see this moving ahead. So, thanks for the few minutes, Mr. Chairman. That's all
I've got. Keep up the good work.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Whitmore. And getting back to Director Bouquet's point about the
compensation of staff, and operators, and all that, yeah, I think it's important as part of that messaging
that we convey the fact of what Ms. Johnson discussed earlier, that this whole philosophy of pay for
performance is being taken throughout the whole organization. So it's part of that whole organizational
rework, so appreciate that. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your hand's still up. Do you have any more?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: My only thing is, Mr. Chairman, what are our next steps as we move
forward?
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. Well the next step today would be to see if we have consensus on the GMOC with
regard to the proposed recommended action that will come to the Board on July 20-- is it? I don't know,
the 20th. So that would be what we need to get to today. And in between then, and between today and
the 20th, I'll remind all of the members of the GMOC to reach out to your buddies and let them know
what's going on here. And, you know, Director Lewis, you get a buy in that, I guess, so lucky you. So
that's my understanding of the next steps. If anybody has any more to add, please feel free. Vice Chair
Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I have a hard time with mute on this computer. I am in favor of all of the structure as
we discussed. I do have a comment, a question, and concern, just one-- that's all one thing-- about the

Third Amendment to the Manager's Employment Agreement. So if this is the appropriate time to talk
about that, I will.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, can I put that on hold for one second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sure.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Anybody else have anything with regard to compensation eligible issues and the
ratio between base and incentive? Any further comments, last comments? Director Catlin, did you have
something on that?
PEGGY CATLIN: I just want to say I'm really comfortable with it. And I appreciate Chair Rivera-Malpiede
and Chair Buzek in your summarizing this whole issue. And my point, truly, is just that we have to be very,
very judicious about our messaging. And I didn't want anything to take away from the very impressive
work that we've seen this agency through the leadership of Debra Johnson accomplish. So I'm fine. I am
very comfortable with it. But I'm very, very appreciative of the methodology and the very, very good work
that's been put into this whole structure for compensation. So thank you all for that.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I guess to Director Sloan's point, I made a point that we have to get this done. And
the Third Amendment is an extension, but there's a definite end to that extension. And we need we need,
as a Board, to get this accomplished so that we can get this contract-- or this piece of the contract moving
forward. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Agreed. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Not to go back-- just out of curiosity, are we-- as an agency, we're trying to change
the culture in which it's basically going to be pay for performance. Is that, like, an active plan? And is
there a timeline behind that, specifically regarding our operators? General Manager Johnson, would you
address that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so thank you very much, Director Buzek and Director Bouquet for your
questions. I need to provide some clarifying points for you. The vast majority of our work forces unionize
under a collective bargaining agreement, which is the Almagamated Transit Union 1001. And in doing so,
they are not provided performance evaluations in the same manner as non-representative employees.
Under the contract, the collective bargaining agreement which we have, when we bargain, there are
certain salary and there are steps, and they automatically are entitled to steps within their pay range
based upon negotiations. And that's one aspect of the tenets of said contract. And we look at work rules
and things of the like. So this would not be applicable. And I want to temper my comments, recognizing

that we are on the cusp of starting labor negotiations as we go forward. And for those that are familiar, we
bargain in good faith. And this isn't the forum in which to have those conversations.
I'm more than willing to have a conversation at such time to apprise you on our path forward in an
executive session as relates to that, but more specifically as relates to non-representative employees,
which basically, just off the top of my head, we probably have about 450 employees. The ultimate goal
here is that we work in tandem. As you looked at the strategic planning process in regards to the most
recent retreat that we had that last Saturday in June, the intent is with the activities. And that's why we
were trying to delineate between those activities.
And as TransPro put forward, there is inputs as an individual. There is outputs regarding the activities that
feed into the success outcomes upon which I am being appraised. So, in turn, they would have individual
goals aligned with their activities and their key performance indicators as we work towards this. Now,
keeping in mind that we are in this stage and we're building this up, as we look to do this, going forward,
there is going to be a transitional phase.
Quite naturally, as we look to create baselines, for all intents and purposes, I could see this coming to
fruition perhaps in the 2022-2023, as we look at a cascading effect as it starts with I, as the leader of the
organization, my leadership team, going down to the next level, and then some. So there is a clear
expectation across the board from which people are being appraised. Now, what I will share with you
coming into this organization just recently, the organization was in the midst of a performance review, and
I met with individuals on the leadership team, and level set that as we went forward because there weren't
goals, per se. And so it was primarily subjective, and some individuals said they did a yeoman's job
because they came to work when there was a stay at home order.
So I'm giving you as that an example not to make light of it, but that's where I really saw an opportunity,
as I outlined, when I came into this organization to assess the processes and procedures to ensure that
we get level set and put us on a trajectory of aligning around a north star where we clearly have an
understanding of what we're working towards. And I think it's incumbent upon me as the leader of the
organization, and also for all the team members that make up this organization, that they have an
understanding of what's expected of them.
And then more so, I would just want to qualify as well this preceded me somewhat. It was in the works,
but it took off just in January, whereby there is a classification and compensation analysis being done for
the organization because recognizing there's not one being done for the General Manager/CEO, but
recognizing as we looked at the job positions in which we have, we clearly want to be an employer of
choice. We clearly want to attract top talent. And so we are in the process, working with that consultant,
getting information back as we look at the wage spans and where people should be. And all of that is
paramount as we go forward. So I hope that answers your question, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, that's perfect. And I think everyone kind of has to get my general theme here,
it's-- which I am all for going forward with this-- it's just at the same time, we, as a Board, we, as an

agency, have that conversation of how do we benefit all of our employees, why do we want people to
keep coming to RTD, and are we properly compensating. And that's what's going to be so important
about that compensation study.
And then after that, do we have a conversation of what is our base compensation? Is that something we
need to rise eventually? So that would just be my comments. We, as an agency, I'm all for this. But, once
again, as a conversation, always trying to better the compensation for our operators is what I'll always be
fighting for. So thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Director Bouquet. And Vice Chair Sloane, before I come back to you to wrap
things up-- to move into the next phase, that is, Mark, could you bring up page eight of the presentation?
MARK AESCH: I can if have Katie would be so kind to do it for us. It looks like she is.
VINCE BUZEK: On the next slide-- that's seven. There it is. OK. So I want to circle back to the point
brought up by Director Dishell, and that is under financial success, over-performance goal, RTD expands
its fund balance by $500k. And that's the measurement. So let's talk about how that number came up and
what it means, and what alternatives, if any, might be out there.
MARK AESCH: And if helpful, Chairman, I'm happy to explain the thinking behind it, if that's helpful for the
committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, let's start there.
MARK AESCH: Super. So the outcome, the middle column, is that we simply would have been in a
position that we spent less money than we receive. That's the definition of success from a financial
objective metric. There's obviously a second component, which is the community sees value. That's the
impression side of it.
The reason we're recommending for your consideration that over-performance would have the ability to
actually underspend by $500,000 compared to revenues that were received I think goes to the
conversation that a couple of the directors were having that would ensure the ability to self-fund any of
this program. So, by definition, if the CEO, in order to over-perform from a financial perspective, needs to
actually spend $500,000 less than you enjoy in revenue, by definition, you have the resources to then
fund this program. And so that's the thinking behind that number.
VINCE BUZEK: OK I get it. I can also see where the goal, spending less than you receive, and the overperformance goal are identical. They're the same thing, except one has a number attached to it, really.
And to Director Dishel's point-- and I'm not saying the General Manager is going to do this-- but holding
off on hiring a few people might get you that number. And I'm just wondering-- Director Dishell, please
weigh in. I think the concern is—

MARK AESCH: Could I-- if I could just speak to the concern, I think that's a fair concern. So that is a fair
concern. Your CEO could make the decision to not hire a certain number of employees in order to be able
to achieve this particular outcome. However, were the CEO to make that decision-- I'll point you above-- it
is three times more the incentive to drive customer satisfaction levels.
And so by definition, you'd be cutting off your nose to spite your face, right? It's three times more
important to deliver high customer satisfaction. It's even more important to deliver a community value. So
I would expect that a well informed CEO would likely not chase a lesser-prioritized success outcome and
would be far more inspired to chase an outcome that is essentially triple what the financial outcome would
be.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: And I just want to be clear. I do not think that our General Manager and CEO would do
that. I fail to see what we're talking about. You get what you measure, and you want to make sure your
target is success outcome. We're not funding this money back through a taper reimbursement to
taxpayers.
I just don't see the pur-- and maybe it's because I am not so fiscally conservative, but it just sort of seems
like a weird incentive. Perhaps for a goal of spending less than you received in an organization where
you're really trying to stay balanced, there isn't an over-performance, and it just gets combined with the
community values at 1.4.
And maybe that to me would be palatable. That makes sense. Or you just take it off. I don't really-- I am
troubled by the idea that we're really trying to incentivize, saving half a million dollars for the sake of
saving half a million dollars, unless there's more to it than that.
VINCE BUZEK: General Manager Johnson, do you want to weigh in on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Chair Buzek and Director Dishell. I appreciate the
conversation. I think it's a robust and an earnest one. And all of this-- as we look at where we are, we
have to be good stewards of public resources, and recognizing that as we look at making informed
decisions relative to financial success and having this strategic plan, it enables us, collectively, the Board
as well as the team and I, to make informed decisions about what we're going after, as opposed to
deploying service, for instance, for certain customer segments that may not-- that may be cost prohibitive,
but we're doing those.
And so when we talk about saving money, it's leveraging it in such a way with the best interest at heart,
i.e. the community value and customer excellence. So when you're talking about-- Director Dishell-saving money, those monies can be saved to be allocated somewhere else that basically has return on
investment going forward. So that's the way I view this.

I know it seems-- looking at this sort of like, OK, we're going to rob Peter to pay Paul so she can get paid.
That's not the intent here. It's basically optimizing the funding at which we have for the betterment of the
constituents in which we serve, and to push me forward in doing that. Hey, let's pay to play and
incentivize because on the flip side of all of that, I really believe it will benefit the organization as the
whole. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell, does that help?
BOBBY DISHELL: It does. I still don't agree with it, and that's OK.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. That's good.
BOBBY DISHELL: We all don't have to agree on everything.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, that's true. If we did, we'd only need one of us. OK. OK. So, thanks, Mark. You can
take that slide down. Does anybody have a question or comment regarding this specific issue? I don't see
any hands to that. So let's go back to Director Sloan, and we're going to move into the recommended
action and discussing that, and whether this committee is good with that as drafted. So Director Sloan, I
think you had some questions and comments about that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I did. And it's all about one provision on page two, Section 3B. And there's one
provision in there that really stood out to me. And it might have stood out because I'm inexperienced in
transit contracts. But I've never seen this in any other context, and that is if the Board doesn't do an
annual evaluation by the deadline every year, then the Executive Director General Manager will be
deemed to have met all performance expectations for that period.
And as I said, it was just surprising to me. And it seems to me that the only reason a Board wouldn't meet
the deadline would be that it's in total disarray. And for that, I'm not speaking of our General Manager, but
any General Manager has to bear some responsibility for that. So I would just like an explanation of the
reasoning behind it. That's my question.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I'll start with General Manager Johnson, and maybe Ms. Snyder there, after
that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so thank you very much, Director Sloan. I appreciate the question. I think it's a
valid one. I have to share with you that I asked that that be put in. A couple of things-- if you read back to
the 2010 audit, this basically protects both parties as relates to this contractual agreement. In reference to
the state audit, in reference to what I read, there was not a performance review done for that General
Manager at the time for nine years.
A state audit was done, and there were some ramifications associated with such, more so, in my
experience as well, in working in different transit organizations. And I'll share with you as well. In

particular, when I have bargained labor contracts-- not one for frontline individuals, but those of
supervisory or managerial status, like the Management Executive Association or things of the like-- it's
incumbent upon me as a leader to ensure I'm meeting with my staff and managing expectations. And if I
fail to do that, then by my negligence, the other party benefits from that.
So it puts skin in the game on both sides of the fence, recognizing as we worked in good faith here, we
have had three amendments, because we agreed in the first iteration of my contract it would be done by a
specific date. And then there was another date thereafter. And here we are on the third one.
And so in an effort to protect both interests, I think it's incumbent upon all of us to recognize that there's
responsibility there. So I just wanted to provide that context for you because I think that's a fair question,
and it's something of which I'm quite familiar with doing. And so Ms. Snyder, I'll yield the floor to you if
there is anything you'd like to add.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Thank you, General Manager and CEO. Yes, I think that accurately reflects what
we're trying to accomplish here. The language is tracking with the Second Amendment, so it was
something that the Board previously approved, which was that if no action is taken, then this is that
default that sort of gives-- it addresses the situation of what happens if this isn't actually done. So it's
certainly up for negotiation between you all and up for adjustment, but that was the intent.
VINCE BUZEK: Vice Chair Sloan, does that answer your question?
MARJORIE SLOAN: If it does answer my question, and I certainly understand Ms. Johnson's perception
that this Board does not have a great track record on doing annual evaluations. I still have my
reservations about including it in there because it does seem antagonistic. And I understand the concept
that it's putting skin in the game for both sides, but in this particular provision it looks like suspicion of the
Board. And it seems to me that any General Manager who does not guide the Board into meeting
deadlines is equally responsible for that.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, thanks for those comments.
MARJORIE SLOAN: That's really all I have to say.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. And I've seen similar provisions in dozens and dozens of employment
contracts in the past, and I do believe it protects both sides. And we do have an obligation to evaluate our
General Manager in a timely fashion. If we don't, she's at a loss as to know how she's performing in the
eyes of the Board, what she needs to improve upon. And she can't realistically move forward.
And if we fail in that obligation, that's on us. That's strictly on us. And I don't think we can foist that onto
the General Manager. That's our obligation, to make sure that happens. In the past-- we're talking about
boards from 10, 15 years ago-- yeah, there were issues that happened.

And I don't know the history, but clearly we're making a new history here. So I don't think that's going to
be an issue as we move forward, but it's definitely protection for Ms. Johnson, and I think deserved
protection as we move forward in this new process. Those are my comments. Thanks. Anybody else?
Final comments before I ask everybody-- oh, Director Lewis, I'm sorry. I just saw your hand.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And you said it perfectly. I was going to say the same thing.
And I just wanted to clarify for Director Sloan that it wasn't actually the perception of the General
Manager. It was stated within the State Auditor's report from 2010 that the Board had actually not
performed-- had not done the performance evaluations. And I was trying to find the specific line, but if you
go into the audits, it says the Board had not conducted a comprehensive performance evaluation of the
former General Manager since February 2000.
And so I think it is a legitimate concern. But it is-- at least you can read from that audit. At least it was from
my understanding on that audit that there have been times with the Board in the past in which the Board
has not performed the duties that we are responsible for as a collective Board. And so some ways, it
provides us some protections to ensure that we are on track and meeting the things that are set out for us
and our job responsibilities as Board members to be able to-- that are outlined, excuse me, within our
responsibilities as Board members.
And so I don't anticipate that we will not meet those obligations, as Board members have not done in the
past, but I can certainly see why there would be some hesitancy or some concern based on the track
record of-- at least from this compensation framework-- from the compensation lens, in which the General
Manager and the Board wanted to ensure those protections. I would also add that we are having constant
conversations about things that we had no control over as a Board, and we're still suffering the remnants
of the reputation from other Board members. And so I think this is just another one of those remnants in
which we unfortunately have to be the ones who solve for and solve against those, even if we weren't the
ones creating those problems.
VINCE BUZEK: Vice Chair Sloan, based on my comments and Director Lewis's comments, do you have
anything further you'd like to add?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No I don't. I haven't been persuaded that it's the best resolution, but I don't have
another way of putting the responsibility on the shoulders of the Board. So I appreciate the comments.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I think I see your hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would just add one thing. I actually was at the
briefing about the 2010 audit when the Board got absolutely reamed for not having anything in place to
evaluate the General Manager, and it was crushing to this agency's reputation. And I think that what
you're seeing before you and the contract that has been executed is done in the sense of transparency,
and openness, and everybody sees that everybody's in the game.

And I think in terms of trying to rectify our credibility and our ability to move this agency forward in
excellence, this is really a crucial component that will show everybody everything's on the line. And that's
been the precedence that has been set by this General Manager and this Board. This Board has been
working diligently for the last two years to get to this point. So Director Sloan, I understand completely
where you're coming from, but I got to tell you this is so different than where we were in 2009 and 2010,
and the ridicule and the public humiliation that this agency experienced. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, that's a good point. And Vice Chair Sloan, thanks for the
comments. And thank you, everybody else here, for your comments as well. I do appreciate the dialogue.
I think we've had a lot of good dialogue over this entire process. And I want to thank our TransPro team
as well. You know, when we first came into this, I hated this idea. And now I take full credit for it, so that's- I'm pretty happy for the way things have gone and what we're doing.
And as Director Dishell says, we're not always going to agree on everything. And for the most part, we've
got, I think, a good framework that we'll be tweaking here and there as we go through it. So that brings
me to the next question. Is there any member of the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Review Committee that would not be in favor of the recommended action?
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your hand-- oh [LAUGHS]-- is now down. Well, good. So that will move forward
out of the GMOC to the full Board with the recommended action as written. And, again, all of you GMOC
members, please give a shout out to your buddy. You can maybe forward them the slide deck that we
went through here today ahead of time and talk about all these issues that we raised. And I think that will
help as we move forward to July 20th. Ms. McManus, you have your hand raised.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it's stuck up. But anyway, can you just read the recommended action as we
would normally move this forward so that at the end we can also capture that it will go on the Unanimous
Consent Agenda for the Board meeting on the 20th?
VINCE BUZEK: Sure, hang on. I need to get to that page. OK. The recommended action would be for the
Board of Directors to adopt a Third Amendment to the CEO and GM Employment Agreement to establish
the Annual Performance Appraisal and Incentive Compensation Program for General Manager and CEO
Debra A. Johnson as set forth in the proposed Amendment-- and those amendments are attached-- as
exhibits to the Recommended Action and Report.
Was that good? We're all good with that, I think? Yeah? Groovy. All right. Are there any other matters to
come before this committee? Seeing none, our next meeting date will be August 5, 2021. No other
matters come before the Board. I will call this Committee meeting adjourned. Thanks, everybody.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks, see you.

VINCE BUZEK: Bye.

