Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on October 1, 2007
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

October 4, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held on
October 1, 2007 at 6:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Chair Ruchman, Bruce Daly, Lee Kemp, Chris Martinez, Bill
McMullen, John Tayer, Barbara Yamrick (via telephone)
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, John Shonsey, Bill Van Meter, Sue Johnson, Stan
Szabelak, Susan Wood, Daria Serna, Bill Van Meter, Rick Clarke,
Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (the Denver Post)
***
Chair Ruchman called the meeting to order at 6:07 p.m.

Call to Order:

I. Updates


Sustainability – RTD and FasTracks Review of Goals –Sue Johnson, Landscape
Architect/Urban Designer and Stan Szabelak, Engineering Project Manager gave
this update. A copy of the presentation is available for viewing in the Planning
and Development Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook. The Sustainability
Committees have been meeting since October 2006 to gather and develop goals
and objectives for the Sustainability program. Sustainability Goal Categories
were defined:
 Improve Energy Efficiency at RTD Facilities
 Improve Vehicle Fuel Efficiency
 Planning, Design and Construction Best Management Practices
 Sustainable RTD Business Practices
o RTD Recycling Efforts
o New Technology Research
o Establish Operations and Maintenance BMPs
 Staff Training & Education
 Resource Management

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on October 1, 2007
Page 2 of 3

A lot of these practices are already occurring in the District. The Committee
wants to compile, record, and monitor these practices under the umbrella of
Sustainability.
The Implementation Plan was reviewed and the next steps are to:
 Provide 2007 Annual Report on Progress
 Investigate RTD Carbon Footprint and Carbon Credit Programs (CCP)
 Utilize consultant to assist with CCP development
 Further Monitor, Measure and Manage Established Goals
APTA wants transit agencies to start Carbon Credit Programs. Stan Szabelak said
that the measurement system needs to be defined. APTA is looking at formulas
for this program.
Cal Marsella said that there is a genuine commitment to the program District
wide. Cal commended Stan Szabelak and Sue Johnson for their work.
Director Tayer talked about giving more publicity to the District’s Sustainability
program.
Stan Szabelak spoke about reaching out with our marketing program and putting
information on buses and light rail vehicles regarding sustainability.


Southeast and Southwest Corridor Extensions Update – Susan Wood, Planning
Project Manager gave this update. The handout is available for viewing in the
Planning and Development Meeting Minutes Notebook. Procurement for the
Southeast Corridor and Southwest Corridor Extensions Environmental Evaluation
(EE) and Basic Engineering (BE) is in process. Staff is hoping to have the RFP out in
early to mid- November 2007. Prior to that, the scope of work will be provided to
the Board for review. Proposals will be due back in December 2007 and staff
hopes to have someone on board by February 2008.
Director Ruchman asked for a sustainability component in the RFP.
Director McMullen asked if there would be any problems with the right of way and
running light rail vehicles in a rail corridor. John Shonsey, Senior Manager,
Engineering responded that the District owns the right of way so that will not be a
problem.
Director Martinez asked about the schedules for completion because they are
different from the timeline on the newsletters. Susan Wood responded that the
schedules have adjusted slightly.
The timetable for construction is starting construction in 2013 and completion in
2015.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on October 1, 2007
Page 3 of 3

Director Daly spoke about complaints about parking problems at Mineral station.
Will there be relief when the extension is completed? There will be 1000 more
parking spaces when the extension is complete.

II.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be November 5, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

III.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the
meeting at 6:27 p.m.

