Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, December 8, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:39 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:40 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

7:41 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

7:40 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

7:45 PM
7:39 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

7:38 PM
7:39 PM
7:40 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:35 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:35 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:42 PM

Paul Solano

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:38 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Committee Chair

Present
Present

7:39 PM
7:35 PM

Director Deadwyler was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Will Adams, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan,
Rachel Carson, Jessie Carter, Wayne Cochran, Carolyn Conover,
Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Martell Dyles, John Elias, Terry Emmons,
John Ewy, Attilio Framarini, David Genova, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg,
George Hovey, Brian Iacono, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Dan Jackson,
Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Mitch Kuharski, Sheri Le, Marla Lien, Doug
MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Mac MacIntosh, Barbara McManus,
Deborah Méndez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Michael Nabhan, Ed
Neuberg, Kevin Parker, Mace Pemberton, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Ashley Rice, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, Henry
Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Monika Treipl-Hamke, Bill Van Meter,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Richard Botang, Brad Buchanan, Lynn Clark, Barikwa Deeyaa,
Sordum Deeyaa, John Desmond, Aaron Epstein, Nadia Garas, David
Gaspers, Eugene Howard, FuWei Huang,Wilfred Karikari, Tuguldur
Mandbayar, Devon McClurken, Togii Mensh, Mike Mwirigi, Sanphis
Thiare, Seraphina Thiare, Marolyn Kay Rittenhouse, Joe Tripplet,
Jason Whitlock, Yuzhou Zhou

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Committee - WIN Update
Zamy Silva, Senior Manager for Civil Rights, said that she was very
delighted to be updating the Board this evening. She noted that, as the
Board saw during the State of the District presentation during the Operations
and Customer Service Committee Meeting, the WIN program received over
$660K in 2015 from the Federal Transit Authority. She shared that in
addition to the FTA funding, one of RTD and the WIN program’s key
partners, Denver Transit Partners (DTP) and its affiliates, has made an
additional donation to the WIN program for 2016. She stated that DTP has
donated to the WIN program since 2011. Zamy Silva pointed out that even
though there was no WIN goal as part of DTP’s contract with RTD they have
voluntarily worked with RTD to hire WIN participants. She explained that
the other exciting item is that DTP has signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with RTD to utilize WIN participants for the duration
of operations and maintenance of the Eagle P3 project.

Martell Dyles, WIN Program Manager, expressed that it was very exciting to
receive additional funding from DTP. He explained that this funding will be a
tremendous asset in addressing the many ancillary needs that might not be
covered by the FTA grant. He asked Aaron Epstein, DTP CEO and Executive
Project Director, to speak more about DTP’s partnership with RTD.
Aaron Epstein thanked the Board for the opportunity to speak this evening.
He said that on behalf of DTP and all their affiliates he wanted to share how
proud they were of the work done within the communities in partnership
with RTD. He shared that when DTP was given the opportunity to
participate in the WIN program they thought it was a great idea. He
commented how impressed he was with the vision of former General
Manager Washington for the WIN program that has been carried on by
Interim General Manager Genova. He noted that DTP and its affiliates have
contributed over $400K since 2011 and have received a lot of benefit from
the program. Aaron Epstein pointed out that DTP’s operations and
maintenance contract with RTD is for 29 years so people being hired from
the WIN program will really be developing long-term careers. He said that
to-date already 33 people have been hired on the operations side and he
expects more will be hired in the future.
Director Archuleta inquired how many people had been hired through the
WIN program to-date and if they were full or part-time employees. Martell
Dyles stated that since 2011 there have been 663 people hired from the
WIN program. He shared that number continues to grow and believes it will
be closer to 700 come January, 2016. He said that he would provide the
Board with the breakdown of full and part-time employees.
Director Anderson asked for information as to the number of people that
have been hired from Adams County. She feels that the WIN program is
very Denver oriented; however, there are many people in Adams County that
could benefit from the WIN program and need jobs. Martell Dyles said he
would provide the Board with that information.
Director Francone echoed Director Anderson’s sentiments. She shared that
she met with Martell Dyles recently and one of the concerns she addressed
with him was that people in Jefferson County need jobs too. She believes
from her conversation with Martell that it is in the works to begin rolling the
program out to other counties soon.
Committee Chair Walker noted that RTD does not just move people, we help
build lives. He believes the WIN program makes a real investment in the
lives of the participants which means a lot more than just giving someone a
job. He thinks this is something that should be recognized. Director Walker

shared that in October when he attended APTA Annual and Rail~Volution
he was approached by several people about the WIN program. He
commended the work of the WIN team and DTP.
Director Lubow asked if the number of people hired from the WIN program
could be provided for every county. Zamy Silva said that staff would
provide the Board with the complete information. She shared that there
would be a lot of outreach throughout the entire District in the coming year.

D.

Other Matters
Director Archuleta shared that he recently represented RTD at the Denver Union
Station Grand Illumination when it was a warm 17 degrees. He also recently
accepted an award from the U.S. Building Green Council of Colorado for the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 9, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 7:55 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

