Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 10, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2007
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Others Present:
Call to Order:
I.

***
Chair Chris Martinez; Director Lee Kemp, Treasurer;
Director Brohl, Secretary; Director Quinlan, Second
Vice-Chair (via phone), Directors Chacon, Elfenbein,
and Kinton
Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue, Marla Lien
Jeff Lieb, Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow
Chair Chris Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:04 p.m.

Recommended Action
Approval for Equipping a Home Office
Director Busck, representing the Technology Committee, presented the
cost estimates for equipping a home office for the Board Members which
is needed to create more flexibility and provide tools for accessibility for
the Board members domestically or internationally (i.e. Director Quinlan
called in from Germany). A copy of the recommended equipment and
projected monthly costs is attached.
Marla Lien expressed concern with the use of the proposed concept of
stipend or anything that looks like a payment over and above what the
Board of Directors are allowed (RTD Act). However Marla expressed
comfort with the use of a policy similar to the current where the Board
members would provide a one-time receipt for the respective home office
equipment/usage fees which would be used for reimbursement for
expenses incurred.
Several questions were raised for clarity on the policy including better
definitions on wireless, PDA, or WiFi capabilities needed and how this
would be funded. Also suggestions were made to changes in language
needed to better clarify the intent of the Technology Committee.
The Committee members were generally receptive to this proposal.
Chair Martinez requested that the Committee remove this item from the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 4
April agenda and bring it back in May with a more clearly defined policy
that spells out some of the concerns expressed.
II.

Web Conferencing Pilot Program
Director Busck talked briefly about the intent of the Technology
Committee to utilize the web conferencing capabilities to enable Board
members to participate in Committee meetings irrespective of where they
may be located or where they may be traveling. A Web Conference
demo is planned for the May 1 st study session which will allow the Board
members to view the capabilities of the system and decide if they want
to move forward.
Director Chacon as a member of the Technology Committee is extremely
supportive of the technology but voiced concern on the cost
effectiveness of the proposal. She requested that a further review is
done on alternative options that could save costs.

III.

April Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella reviewed the following items listed under Unanimous
Consent. All of these items had passed through committee so there was
little discussion.
 Unanimous Consent
Exercise the Option to Purchase 63 Replacement access-a-Ride
Cutaway Buses
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
exercise the option with Startrans (contract 23-FK-004) to purchase
63 replacement cutaway buses to be used by access-a-Ride. The
option price is $50,320 each for a total award of $3,170,160.
Volume Discounts for one-day Passes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the implementation
of volume discounts on the purchase of one-Day passes. It is
recommended that for purchases of 100 to 999, RTD will offer a
10% discount.
This results in recommended prices for Local,
Express, and Regional Day passes of $4.00, $7.00, and $9.00
respectively under the current fare structure. For purchases of 1,000
and over, it is recommended that RTD offer a discount of 20%,
resulting in prices of $3.50, $6.25, and $8.00 for Local, Express and
Regional passes respectively under the current RTD fare structure.
Five-Day Convention Pass
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the implementation
of five-Day Convention Pass to be sold to Conventions, Meetings,

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 4
Conferences, Seminars, Trade Shows and Special interest Groups.
The unlimited access five-Day Pass, to be called the “Convention
Pass”, would be good on all regular fixed route bus and Light Rail
services excluding skyRide, RockiesRide, BroncosRide, and access-aRide. For purchases of 100 to 999 passes, the recommended price
for the Convention Pass would be $35.00 each, and for purchases of
1,000 and over the price would be $31.25 each.
Director Kemp requested that RTD explore the opportunity to
advertise on the back of these five-day passes as a source of
revenue. This is a great marketing opportunity.



Recommended Action
Recommendation for Acquisition of Property at 17th Street and
Consolidated Main Line (from Executive Session)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors discuss a recommendation for
acquisition of property at the 17 th Street and Consolidated Main
Line at the Executive Session of April Board meeting subject to a
firm market appraisal (to be received shortly) and a confidential
discussion on the price of the offer at the time.

Cal Marsella and Marla Lien indicated they are still awaiting some
information from the property sellers but expect to have it before the
Board session. Director Chacon expressed some concern that she
had hoped to see an in-depth discussion from the developers at the
Board Study session April 3 rd which would have provided more insight
into how the proposed master development fit into the city plans.
Marla Lien shared the presentation had two primary focuses:
 Approval for the CML purchase
 Obtain buy-in from RTD Board on the Transportation Plan
Cal Marsella shared that Director Pulliam had requested that a word is
changed in the CML language to read “may” instead of “will” which
would provide flexibility to the design and location for the light rail.
IV.

Telephone in Executive Session
Chair Martinez reminded the Executive Committee that Executive
Sessions are closed door events which would preclude someone from
calling into the meeting via the conference bridge number that is
published and open to anyone.

V.

Other Matters
 Cal Marsella brought the recommendation forward from his staff
that instead of having each committee report out in the Board
meetings, the Chair would simply ask if they have reviewed the
minutes and the committee chair would address any questions.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 4
This would reduce the amount of time spent in the Board meeting
going over minutes.
Members of the Executive Committee concurred this may be a
more efficient way of handling the committee reports. Copies of
the minutes will be included in the Board packets along with
posting of the minutes on the Board website.


Cal Marsella indicated that he and his team have been involved in
some serious discussions on drainage issues with the cities. The
drainage issue is very complex and could require a significant
investment. The primary issue he is trying to determine is what is
RTD reasonably expected to do as many of these cities already
have significant drainage issues but no funds to correct. How
much of this burden should/could RTD carry? Each corridor will
be viewed separately but are subject to the negotiations with the
city.

VI.
Adjourn
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 1:20 p.m.

