Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 1, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

December 9, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on December 1, 2009 at
5:33 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen, Vice – Chair O’Boyle, Director Bagley, Director Brohl,
Director Busck, Director Chacon, Director Christopher, Director Cohen,
Director Daly, Director James, Director Pulliam, Director Tayer,
Director Tobiassen
Directors Kemp and Martinez

Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Nadine Lee, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, Cal Shankster, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – Denver Post
****

Call to Order

Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager Public Affairs, gave a quick overview of upcoming
and expanded PI efforts. There will be a more thorough briefing at the beginning of 2010.
Scott mentioned that the PI team met with the CAC and had great discussions. They are
also working closely with Marketing to update and increase the amount of news and
information posted on websites. A PI retreat is being held next week.
Scott will continue to meet one on one with board members to receive input on PI efforts.
Director Bagley asked and encouraged RTD Board members to be present at the CAC
meetings to show support. He was very impressed with the ideas he heard when attended
this last meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 1, 2009
Page 2
I.

Recommended Action:
Rick Clarke and Bill Van Meter briefed the board on the following action items.
A.

Approval of the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between Sand Creek
Metropolitan District and RTD
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the Sand Creek Metropolitan
District (SCMD) and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for the
purpose of coordinating to provide a grade separation from 40 th Avenue on
the East Corridor alignment near the proposed 40 th/Airport Station. The
IGA describes the terms of, and schedule for, coordination between RTD
and the SCMD. The IGA provides for the inclusion of a grade-separated
crossing in the East Corridor project if funding for the additional cost can
be secured by SCMD, and if SCMD provides for the lowering of 40 th
Avenue.
MOTION:

Director Daly made a motion to forward
items A to the full board at the December
15, 2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

B.

Approval to Release the Central Corridor Extension Draft Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors direct the Interim General Manager to release the Central Corridor
Extension Draft Environmental Evaluation (EE) document for agency and
public review.

C.

Approval to Release the Northwest Rail Corridor Draft Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors direct the Interim General Manager to release the Northwest Rail
Draft Environmental Evaluation (EE) document for agency and public review.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
items B and C to the full board at the
December 15, 2009 Board Meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, December 1, 2009
Page 3

II.

SECOND:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates


CAC Update
Ann Hayes, Co-Chair of the CAC gave an update to the board. To follow up
with Scott Reed’s comments – she mentioned that they had a healthy
detailed discussion at their last meeting. Ann also thanked Director Bagley
for attending the CAC meeting and would like to see more board members in
attendance at future meetings.
Ann invited the board to the next CAC meeting; it will be a reception on
December 16, 2009. They would like to have a roundtable to sit and talk and
explore ideas. The reception will begin at 5:00 p.m.
This is probably Ann’s last meeting as Co-Chair. She has very much enjoyed
coming and giving updates to the board.
The CAC meetings are held the third Wednesday of each month. These
meetings are listed on the two-week calendar.

 APE Update
Rick Clarke updated the board on the progress of the APE and also reported that the
plan is to present the APE at the January 5, 2010 FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Meeting. They are still on schedule.
Bill Van Meter updated the board of the revenue side of the APE plan. Patty
Silverstein is keeping them on course in finding good reasonable, reliable forecasting
tools.
III.

Next Meeting – January 5, 2010

IV.

Other Matters
No Other matters were discussed.

V.

Adjourn
The FasTracks Monitoring Committee adjourned at 7:33 p.m.

