Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
October 31, 2019 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Doris Black – Building Services – 25 years
Ricardo Gallegos – Light Rail Train Operator – 16 years
Caroline Martinez – Administrative Assistant – 42 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed Route Operator Winner
1st Place – John Deschner (East Metro)
RTD Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Ryan Gill, Justin Gragert, Randy Peterson (Platte)
RTD Service and Cleaning Winner
1st Place – Mark Buyaliski (Platte)
Private Contractor Fixed Route Operator Winner
1st Place – Jose Ek Chan (First Transit Denver)
Private Contractor Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Juan Hinojos, Lance Newcomb, Joe Rhodes (First Transit Commerce City)
Paratransit Operator Winner

1st Place – Miguel Robles-Esparza (MV Transportation)
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Robert Dennis
2nd Place – Timofey Dorovskikh
3rd Place – Narciso Garcia Jr.
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Randall Lovegrove
2nd Place – George Sweeney
3rd Place – Mike Hubbard
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Roadeo
Single-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Dave Johnson and John Prather
2nd Place – Alex Martinez and Chip Seedroff
3rd Place – John Niesz and Tim Lipstrew
Tandem-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – David Waite and Ray Wendt
2nd Place – Mystique McQueede and John Oldham
3rd Place – Manny Martinez and Mike Parras
Special Recognition – GFOA 2019 Distinguished Budget Presentation Award
Jannette Scarpino, Todd Nikkel, and Tom Smyth

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 24, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the Nominating Committee of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint three
members of the Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint two new
members to the Committee to three-year terms.
Core Goal #5 - Effective Communications & Community Outreach
B.

Modeling On-Call Contract Amendment

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
amend the contract with Cambridge Systematics for on-call travel modeling services to
increase the contract not-to-exceed amount by $1,300,000 to a total of $1,800,000.
Funding for 2019 work orders to be issued under this contract is included in the 2019
amended expense budget in the specific projects for which the work orders will be issued.
Funding for future work orders would be included in the 2020-2025 Mid-Term Financial
Plan in future projects.
This action addresses three of the General Manager’s goals for 2019:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
Task Goal #4 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods
C.

Approve Contract Modification with Cambridge Systematics

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to increase the contract authority amount with Cambridge Systematics.
(Contract Number 15DJ005) from the current level of $763,728.00 by $300,000 to new
total contract amount of $1,063,728.00
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
D.

Resolution Authorizing Refunding of Series 2010A Bonds

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the

issuance of sales tax revenue bonds (FasTracks Project) of the Regional Transportation
District (Colorado) to refund certain outstanding FasTrack Bonds; providing for other
matters related to such Bonds and the security therefor; and approving the execution and
delivery of certain documents in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
E.

Resolution Authorizing Refunding of Series 2010A Certificates of Participation

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and related documents
in connection with the refinancing of the 2010A Certificates of Participation (COPs).
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
F.

January 2020 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2020 Service Change package as revised and summarized
in Attachment A resulting in an annualized base system cost of $519,000 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability

XII.

Recommended Action
G.

Federal Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a new
agreement for Federal Liaison Services with Squire Patton Boggs, LLC for a three-year
contract at a cost of $828,000 ($23,000 per month—the same rate as currently being
paid) with two one-year options (option year one at $276,000; option year two at
$276,000. The total amount of the five-year contract of $1,380,000 was below staff’s
internal cost estimate, and funding for this contract is included in the annual budgets.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach

H.

Adoption of the 2020-2025 Mid-Term Financial Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2020-2025 Mid-term Financial Plan.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
I.

Approval of the 2020 Fiscal Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts the revised Fiscal Policy Statement for 2020.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
J.

Approve Pension Plan Contribution

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt a 2020 contribution of $6.1 million to RTD’s Salaried Employees’
Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2020
contribution of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to the
plan for each year of employment.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Task Goal #2 – Address Service & Human Capital
K.

Benefit Plan Approval

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the 2020 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorizes the General
Manager/CEO or his designee to enter into agreements with the insurance carriers.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Task Goal #2 – Address Service & Human Capital
L.

Wagon Road PnR/144th FlexRide

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a 4 (Four) year
contract with Smart Commute Metro North Transportation Management Organization for
the implementation and ongoing grant administration of the new Wagon Road PnR/144th
FlexRide. The grant includes $1,600,000 in initial funding and $400,000 in local match

for a total grant amount of $2,000,000. The total not to exceed RTD contribution to this
grant is $150,000.
It is also recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to amend the current ADA
paratransit/FlexRide services contract with Via Mobility Services (contract #16-DH-047) to
allow RTD to distribute grant funds to VIA Mobility Services to operate the new Wagon
Road/144th FlexRide. The contract increase for the new FlexRide service is $303,161 for
year 1; $317,099 for year 2; and $331,927 for year 3. In addition, RTD will reimburse
the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be $36,840 for year 1;
$37,945 for year 2; and $39,050 for year 3. The fourth year cost for the Wagon
Road/144th FlexRide service will not be included in this amendment since contract 16-DH047 will be rebid during 2022. The initial 3-year not-to-exceed amount for service is
$952,186; and fuel is $113,835.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
A.

Draft Board Expense Reduction Resolution

It is recommended by the Executive Committee of the RTD Board of Directors that the Board
approve a motion to adopt the attached Resolution No. ______, Series of 2019, concerning
a Temporary Reduction of Certain Board Office Budget Lines Related to Director Travel and
the Allocation of Certain Meeting Expenses to Directors’ Local Expense Budgets.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management.
B.

XV.

Update from Ad-Hoc Committee on Certain Litigations

Executive Session
Conference with Legal Counsel on DTP and RRP litigation matters. CRS 42-6-402 (4) (b)
(conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions)

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

