Oct 31 2019 0530 PM Board of Directors
Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: The record will reflect that we are convened as a 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight
Time. And I would respectfully request everyone to silence their phones, please. I would also
note for the sake of the record, and for the benefit of the public, that this meeting is being video
and audio recorded. If you would please all rise now and join me in the recitation of the Pledge
of allegiance
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. You may be seated. Madam Executive Manager, if
you would please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow

JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten. Director Mihalik. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 12 present, three absent. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. And that was-- did you say 12 present? Right, 12. Three absent.
Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at RTD, safety is our core value. And so we will
begin this meeting with a very short safety briefing.
If we have a medical emergency that necessitates calling 911, I will ask our RTD legal counsel to
make that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are requested, please, to
provide assistance. If needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator and AED device is in a glass
case located just outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event that we must evacuate this building due to an emergency, we ask you please, calmly,
to exit out the door you came in at the back of the room. Go up the stairs to the first floor around
the security desk. And then exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there
to direct you to a safe meet-up area. And if there is anyone needing special assistance in the
event of an evacuation, you will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
On a related safety note, we remind you once again that RTD takes every reasonable precaution
to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities. That said, we do rely upon you,
the public and our staff, to be another set of eyes, to be aware of and alert to any suspicious and
dangerous activity on buses and trains, and around stations and the stops and the platforms. As
such, we encourage all employees and all members of the public to download the Transit Watch
app, which puts you in immediate contact with our transit police. And that is something you
would use in the event of an emergency situation.

The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store. Remember, if you
see something, say something. And with the Transit Watch app, you'll never ride alone. Thank
you.
I do want to express a very, very special thank you to all of the members of the Board, and for
that matter, to our staff and to the public, for being able to reschedule Tuesday night's meeting
until tonight. We know that was an inconvenience to each and all of you. We apologize for that
inconvenience. I intend to take it up with the Creator relative to the snowstorm at some point.
But in the meanwhile, we know it was an inconvenience, and we appreciate your accommodation
to us.
There are three retirees for the month of October. And I believe we may have one of them with
us this evening. And I would like to recognize at this time Doris Black from Building Services,
an employee for 25 years. And who is going to do the honors on staff to speak of Ms. Black?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: [INAUDIBLE] not here.
She is not here. Well, you will please pass on, Mr. Stopplecamp our most genuine and sincere
congratulations and best wishes to Ms. Black upon the occasion of her retirement. Are there any
other retirees who are present in the room this evening?
[INAUDIBLE]
Yes, please. OK, is that Richard Gallegos?
[INAUDIBLE]
No? All right I'll ask Mr. Worthen to step-- Mr. Jensen. I'm sorry. I couldn't see there Mr. Jensen
to step in and save my bacon on this one.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I am Dave Jensen, AGM (Assistant General Manager) of Rail
Operations. And I will be passing off the presentation of the retirement award to General
Superintendent of Transportation Gary Schafer.
But I did want to just take a moment to congratulate Mr. Gallegos on this accomplishment, and
just express my gratitude and thanks for your dedication and hard work to RTD. It's very, very
much appreciated. Thank you [INAUDIBLE].
[APPLAUSE]
GARY SCHAFER: Good evening. I am Gary Schafer General Superintendent Transportation.
Chair Tisdale, members of the Board, Mr. Genova, thank you for giving us some time to
recognize one of our employees that gave a lot of service to us.

Ricardo, I'd like to have you step up right now. Once he gets up here-- you can just
[INAUDIBLE] off to the side here Ricardo. Ricardo gave us 16 years, and 16 good years.
Started in 2004 as a bus operator. And then he moved over to light rail, where he finished his
career out. The one thing that I remember, because when I was brand new, I came over and
Ricardo was an operator. And I was an operator at the time. And his demeanor was always
friendly and helpful to the new employees.
And he always gave 110% on his job. He was on the job all the time, rarely called out sick, and
gave us great years of service. His performance, if I can think of one word that I will remember
him by, is on-time.
This man was on time for the job and he was on time with this trains. And we respect that. I will
miss you, and I'm grateful for the years of service you gave the district. And congratulations on
your retirement.
RICARDO GALLEGOS: Thank you. [INAUDIBLE]
[APPLAUSE]
[INAUDIBLE]
GARY SHAEFER: Absolutely. It's all yours.
RICARDO GALLEGOS: And I just wanted to thank Gary and the new boss. The only correction
I had on Gary. I always came to work with 130%.
[LAUGHTER]
But in addition, I'd like to think RTD for such a wonderful experience. I enjoyed my career. And
now that I'm going to be retired, I'm happy.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Let the record reflect that Director Mihalik is now in attendance.
DOUG TISDALE: Let the record so reflect. Thank you very much. And the other retiree who we
had for this evening, who I believe is not able to join us, is Ms. Caroline Martinez, an
administrative assistant with the RTD for 42 years. Give it up for Caroline Martinez.
[APPLAUSE]
This evening, we are also privileged to recognize the winners of the Bus, Light Rail, and
Snowplow Roadeos, held in August and September of this year. Now, these employees and the

contractors represent the agency's most skilled operators and maintainers. And we are honored to
be joined by some of these fine individuals tonight. First, I'm going to ask for our AGM of Bus
Operations, Mr. Fred Worthen, and I believe our Senior Manager of Paratransit Services, Mr.
Paul Hamilton, is also here to introduce some of the people as well, including our Paratransit
Operator Competition winner. But first, to Mr. Worthen, sir, the floor is yours.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I will tell
you that today has been a wonderful day. I had the pleasure of attending the employee
celebration this morning for all the outstanding achievements. And I get to continue in the
evening with another celebration of great achievements.
Unfortunately, we do have quite a few individuals who had prior family commitments that could
not be here tonight. But I still want to recognize them, starting with our first place winner at the
Bus Roadeo, Mr. John Deschner from East Metro. John is not here this evening. But I will make
sure that he gets his recognition at his base.
We also have our first place winners for the vehicle maintenance side. We have Ryan Gill, Justin
Gragert, and Randy Peterson from the Platte division. And actually, this was a combination team.
Two members were from Platte and one was from East Metro. And I will tell you, watching
these guys was really amazing. They did a fantastic job during the competition.
We also have Mark Buyaliski. Mark won the Service and Cleaning competition. And then we
have our contractors.
And for those of you who have ever been to a Roadeo, you have probably heard the name Ek
Chan. It took me about three seconds to figure out who the two brothers were. Now, for those of
you who know-- Jose, please come. Jose and his brother Juan have been first and second place
for as far back as anybody can remember.
This year was Jose's time to win. But it was not only his time to win the local Roadeo. Jose
placed third at nationals, and he did a very good job representing the district and First Transit.
[APPLAUSE]
Also on the private contractor side, we had a very tough competition on the vehicle maintenance
side of the house and first transit Commerce City actually won. Gary, your guys are not here, but
would you-[INAUDIBLE]
Would you come forward, though. So Gary is the General Manager of First Transit Commerce
City. His team, Lance Newcomb, Juan Hinojos, and Joe Rhodes took first place on the vehicle
maintenance side of the house. Congratulations. Please convey my congratulations to your folks.
[INAUDIBLE]

And then, Paul, would you want to do the-PAUL HAMILTON: Sure.
FRED WORTHEN: And with that, I'll pass on to Paul Hamilton for the public transportation
component.
PAUL HAMILTON: And we do have one to recognize tonight, first place at our Roadeo. And
that is Miguel Robles. And we're going to have him and Bill Hipp, who's the General Manager of
MV, the contractor in for which he works.
I will say, before they come up here, that Miguel is no stranger to us. He has won first place four
times, and taken second place two times. And I have seen him, even before my arrival at RTD,
competing at the Nationals for CTAA (Community Transportation Association of America). So
he has done great work for us many times.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Messrs. Worthen and Hamilton. Let's give it up one
more time for all of those winners.
[APPLAUSE]
Next up are the winning participants in the RTD Light Rail Roadeo, who will be introduced by
our Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, Mr. Dave Jensen. Mr. Jensen, sir.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening again. And I will once again be passing the responsibility on to
senior staff in rail. But I agree with Mr. Worthen, that it's an appropriate night to be giving these
awards out, not because it's Halloween, but because we did have employee appreciation awards
today earlier. And so it's with great pleasure this evening that I can be here with the winners of
our Roadeo, which we held back in August.
So for those of you that were there, remember that there were sights of Board members and SLT
team members actually operating trains. There was fierce, but friendly, competition amongst
staff. It was a great turnout and it was a great time of competition for rail operations. So to
introduce the Transportation Department winners is again General Superintendent of
Transportation Gary Schafer.
GARY SCHAFER: Thank you again. I'm going to ask all three of these folks to come up at once.
I'm going to ask Robert Dennis, Narciso Garcia, and Tim Dorovskikh to come on up. These are
three place winners, as we might have explained earlier. The top two will compete at the
International Roadeo this year in San Francisco, which is being sponsored by Muni and BART
(Bay Area Rapid Transportation).
And I'm going to have Narciso step forward first just a little bit, so they know who you are.
Narciso is a 28-year veteran with our place, and he's been just a stalwart. 15 Roadeos. Two

times, he came in first place, several second places in our local Roadeo, and one International
Roadeo that he was first place in. So that's quite an accomplishment, all right? Thank you,
Narciso.
[APPLAUSE]
Tim, I'm going to have you step forward. Tim Dorovskikh is one of the new folks, 2 and 1/2
years with our agency. And this was his first Roadeo. And he placed second place on the
Roadeo, and did an excellent job. Great attention to detail, and he came in second place.
Not quite the number of years yet, but we're going to get him there. We're not going to let him
go. So thank you, Tim.
[APPLAUSE]
And in first place, a surprise to most who have met this gentleman before, Robert Dennis.
Robert, step on forward, please. 25 years with the agency. 10 local Roadeo wins, two
International first place victories, and one second place. Great representative that goes to these
competitions.
All three of these will definitely be good representatives. And thank you for your time that you
put into it. Thanks for what you do daily for us. And good luck when you go to San Francisco.
We want to beat those California teams this year.
[APPLAUSE]
DAVE JENSEN: I think it's especially nice to see families here, supporting their families
working here. Then now, on the maintenance side of the house for the Roadeo, I'd like to
introduce Tim Walker, Manager of LRV (Light Rail Vehicle) Maintenance, to introduce his
team.
TIM WALKER: Thank you, Dave. This year, we had six mechanics participating in the local
Roadeo. The Roadeo consisted of 10 events, from diagnostic skills to driving skills. This year,
we added a new event, where the contestants had the opportunity to build a robot and have the
opportunity to race it.
Mike Hubbard, Randy Lovegrove, and George Sweeney placed this year in the local Roadeo.
Randy has been with us for 11 years, George Sweeney has been with us for 19 years, and Mike
Hubbard has been with us for six years. George and Randy aren't feeling very well this evening,
but we have Mike Hubbard. I'd like Mike Hubbard to step up.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Jensen, and to your staff. We appreciate your
participation in the presentation of these recognitions. Next up are our Snowplow Roadeo
winners, who will be introduced by our Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, Mr.

Henry Stopplecamp. And with him, I believe we will have our Facilities Senior Manager, Mr.
Robin McIntosh, assisting.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I gave Mr. McIntosh the night off to go trick or treating.
DOUG TISDALE: Good for you. What an Assistant General Manager you are, and that's great.
Please, Mr. Stopplecamp.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK, I appreciate it. And I do not believe we have any of our folks
here. Double check. No.
Because as everybody knows, we had a few days of snow this week. And these Snowplow
Roadeo winners were out over the weekend and the last couple of days. So they're actually
getting a well-deserved rest tonight, and we'll pass this on to them. But just real quick, we've got
Tandem and Single-Axle Snow Plow competitions.
And we had 17 teams in each event. They did really well, and the last couple of days proves
what they can do. And so on their behalf, I'd like to thank you very much for the opportunity to
let them go ahead and have these competitions. And I will pass on the certifcates to them. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And Mr. Stopplecamp, if I may, let me just read the
names into the record, because I think we'd like to have a record of who those honorees are. For
the Single-Axle Snow Plow Truck winners, first place Dave Johnson and John Prather. Second
place, Alex Martinez and Chip Seedroff. Third place, John Niesz and Tim Lipstrew.
And then on the Tandem-Axle Snow Plow Truck winners, first place to David Waite and Ray
Wendt. Second place to Mystique McQueede and John Oldham. And third place to Manny
Martinez and Mike Parras. Let's give it up for all of them.
[APPLAUSE]
We have one final special recognition tonight. At this time, we want to acknowledge and honor
our budget staff, which has once again been presented with a Distinguished Budget Presentation
award by the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA). You may not know, this award
actually is the highest acknowledgment that can be given in governmental budgeting, and
represents a significant achievement by our agency. And I am honored to welcome, from her
sickbed, to bring this award to the appropriate recipients, our CFO Ms. Heather McKillop. Ms
McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you very much. This is Heather, Assistant General Manager for
Finance and Administration. And I'm going to ask Todd Nikkel, who's in the back, and Tom
Smyth to come up. Jeanette Scarpino couldn't join us this evening. She was in a class all day
getting educated on how to prepare budgets.
[LAUGHS]

But I wanted to welcome both of those up here. They work very hard every year preparing our
annual budget, and putting together the budget book that you receive each spring. That book is
reviewed on a set of criteria that's done by the Government Finance Officers Association, and
those budget books are reviewed by peers across the country and in Canada.
We do have our own staff that does peer reviews for other agencies, and then ours gets reviewed
by a set of our peers throughout the country. So it is a highly distinguished work that we're very
proud of, and a lot of time and effort goes into that. So I wanted to thank both Todd and Tom for
their exceptional work on our budget document every year. So thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Congratulations to you all. That's really a great achievement. Believe me, I
know. I remember when I was mayor of Cherry Hills Village, and we got one of those awards.
That was a big, big thing for our finance staff. The record should reflect that both Director
Mihalik and Director Menten are now with us, and they didn't have an opportunity to respond to
the roll call. So we note for the record their presence at this time.
The next item on our agenda is the public participation period. And this is open to anyone who
wants to speak. We have a custom that we allow any of our elected officials present to speak first
so that they can back to their own meetings and attend to business. If you have signed up to
speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up.
If you have not signed up and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the end of
the list. Each speaker is allowed three minutes-- I'll repeat that, three minutes. We respectfully
request that members of the audience refrain from any indications of support or opposition to a
speaker's comments, as such outbursts might reasonably have the effect of chilling the free
expression of thoughts by speakers.
Please also bear in mind that, by appearing at this microphone, you are consenting to being video
and audio recorded. And all of our meetings at RTD are video and audio recorded. So if you do
not wish to be recorded, you will have to submit your comments in writing. Please come to the
lectern when your name is called, and provide us with your name and address. And if you have
any reference materials, provide them to Board staff prior to speaking.
Do I have anyone on the list? There is no one who's signed up on the list. We do make available,
however, the opportunity, if there is anyone who does not sign up on the list and who would like
to speak, you may come forward at this time. Going once, going twice, gone.
Next, we turn to committee reports. The committee minutes were included in the Board packet.
I'll ask at this time if there are any questions from any member of the Board relative to the
committee reports. Hearing none, then those committee reports will stand as submitted, and
become a part of our permanent record. They are reflected in the record and in the agenda, so
you know which ones they are.

At this time we turn to an opportunity for the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee to give us an update through its chair. So Committee Chair Broom, if
you would at this time, please share with us your comments regarding the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee, and the fact that the survey has now gone
out and is due on November 11. So Chairman Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. You just gave my speech.
[LAUGHTER]
The General Manager performance review document did go out to each of you today. And you
have 10 days to fill it out, and it's due back in by noon on November 11. The last time,
everybody participated in this. And I really appreciate that. In the past, we've had some problems
with some Board members who didn't want to participate for one reason or another.
Again, the survey is due on November 11. The next meeting of the GMOC committee will be at
3:00 PM on November the 19th, where we'll discuss the results from that review process. Thank
you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chairman Broom. Any comments or questions
relative to Chair Broom in his report on the GMOC? Hearing none, then the next item is the
approval of the Board meeting minutes of September 24. May I please have a motion to approve
the minutes?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Second Vice Chair and a second from Director
Williams. Any discussion on that motion to approve? Do we need to do it electronically?
We can do a vote. We need to do it electronically. Here we are, OK.
Second Vice Chair was the movement. Director Williams was the second. Everybody please vote
after they cast their votes. By a vote of 14 in favor and none opposed, the minutes are
unanimously approved.
Next, we turn to the Chair's report. Lots to report. I'll try to keep this fast. Some of the highlights.
This month, the Directors have been participating in telephone town hall meetings organized by
the RTD Communications Department. These town halls, being conducted by telephone, are an
immensely powerful way to reach and interact with constituents in our own districts. They allow
the agency to engage in conversations with citizens who may not otherwise have an opportunity
to be present at a town hall, and who may not use RTD's services. So we appreciate that.
Directors Guissinger and Williams participated in the 2019 Bicycle Colorado Summit on
Monday, October 7, at the Curtis Hotel here in Denver.

First chair Catlin, Secretary Walker, and Directors Lewis, Whitmore, Williams, and I, along with
several members of the RTD staff, traveled to New York City two weeks ago to participate in the
American Public Transportation Association's TRANSform conference. That's what they call
their annual meeting right now.
And I know that Secretary Walker and I both serve on the Board of Directors, along with
General Manager Genova. So we had a full day of meetings on Saturday and Sunday, and then a
number of educational sessions following that. It was an exceptionally good conference.
Director Lewis and Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede attended the Women's Foundation of
Colorado 2019 Annual Luncheon in the Mile High Ballroom at the Colorado Convention Center
on Friday, October 11. And the NEWSED Civil Rights Awards Ceremony was held at the
Seawall Ballroom on Wednesday, October 16. And Treasurer Cook and Second Vice Chair
Rivera-Malpiede attended that event.
The CAC (Citizen Advisory Committee) Roundtable Dinner was held in this room on
Wednesday, October 23. I'm happy to report that there was a majority of this Board, along with a
number of members of our senior leadership team, who were in attendance for that dinner with
the Citizens Advisory Committee.
The RTD Employee Awards Celebration, you heard reference already to that, was held at
History Colorado this morning, and Director Williams and I attended. She'll have an opportunity
to comment on that in New Matters later on. It was great to cheer on the magnificent work done
by our staff.
I will be attending the annual Asian Chamber of Commerce Dinner this Friday, November the
1st, which will be held in the event hall beneath the Super Star Asian Restaurant in West Denver.
The Denver South EDP Annual Luncheon will be held at the Hyatt Regency DTC on Friday,
November 8. And Director Folska, Director Mihalik and I will be in attendance at that.
The Annual Veterans Day Luncheon will be held at the District Shops this year. And first Vice
Chair Catlin, Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and Treasurer Cook will participate in that
most worthwhile event.
And remember, once again, send in your General Manager survey responses by Monday,
November 11. Speaking of the General Manager it's my privilege now to recognize General
Manager Dave Genova to share with us his report. General Manager, good evening.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. If you would indulge me, we do have a couple of our
Snowplow Roadeo winners that have arrived. So I'd like to ask Henry to bring them to the
podium please. Henry?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK, we've got two of our unsung heroes up here. These are the folks
who've been plowing snow for us the last couple of days. And so I think a big round of applause
for that.

[APPLAUSE]
We've got Manny Martinez and Ray Wendt. Both competed, and I want to thank them for
participating and doing so well on the various competitions. And it's not as easy as you think,
driving a truck with this big plow on the front.
CDOT says anybody can do it, but that's not the case. And these guys are living proof that it
takes some skill, and I want to thank them. And thanks for coming in, guys.
[INAUDIBLE]
[APPLAUSE]
DAVE GENOVA: So I thank them for this week. I said, we're just getting warmed up. Although
that's probably not the right-- getting warmed up's probably not right. But it was a good start to
the season.
[LAUGHS]
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll continue with the report. A couple of highlights. I've done about 15
employee forums around the district. So all the divisions and everywhere we have employees,
I've pretty much touched-- largely to talk about Reimagine, and educate and inform employees
on what the Reimagine scope is, and what we're doing with that project.
It was very beneficial. A lot of good feedback from employees already. And of course, this was
really just my first touchpoint with them on this particular topic. And there'll be lots more
outreach and engagement to come.
I've attended a couple of NATA (North Area Transit Association) meetings in this cycle,
actually. There's been two NATA meetings since my last GM report. And I just want to let the
Board know that at the next NATA meeting, which is going to be in December, there's a small
subset that are going to be getting together out of the NATA membership to put together a letter
that will be coming to RTD.
So at the December meeting, my understanding is that that small group will report out to the full
group on the kinds of things that they're wishing to communicate to us. And then we'll be
receiving that formally from NATA. So I wanted to pass that on to the full Board.
We did do-- several directors joined us. We had the TLRC (Transportation Legislation Review
Committee) committee tour of the 61AV project a number of weeks ago. And so thanks for those
that joined in on that. I think it was an informative tour on that particular technology.
Colfax BRT (Bus Rapid Transit) project, this is-- actually, City and County of Denver is the lead
agency on the Colfax BRT project. And this is a project that's been going for some time. We just
recently pulled together a meeting of the leadership of all these are of all the organizations
involved. So myself, Cindy Terwilliger who is our Regional Administrator from the FTA

(Federal Transit Administration) because they like this project, they think it would score very
well in terms of federal grant funding. So they're very interested in where the project is, and how
to get it in the pipeline and get it moving.
But we also had in attendance at the meeting Eulois Cleckley with City and County of Denver,
Doug Rex from DRCOG (Denver Regional Council of Governments). We had representatives
from seat. Shoshana Lew couldn't make it, but a couple of her high-level team members did,
including Sophie Shulman. And then we had other representatives from DRCOG. Our intent is to
meet on at this level on a quarterly basis until we can get some additional traction moving ahead
on this project.
I attended the last Metro Mayors Caucus on October 2, and will continue to attend those. On
October 3 is when we had our last real headquarters conference call and meeting with the Federal
Railroad Administration (FRA). And that was largely around what we're considering our final
draft report on the action plan.
The Board may recall that last November, the FRA asked us to put together an action plan, get it
completed within one year. And credit to a Denver Transit Partners, and also the RTD team, that
that plan, we feel, is complete. We've addressed all the items we said we were going to do, and
we're working just through the final stages of that with the FRA.
A couple other things to just let you know about. It was interesting, at APTA Annual
Conference-- and those Board members that attended may have seen some of these themes as
well. But one that I just wanted to make sure that the full Board was aware was that there's a
number of progressive agencies that are all looking at network redesign now.
One of the components we're looking at, as part of Reimagine, of course-- our Reimagine scope
is bigger than just network redesign. But it was interesting that that's becoming a bit of a theme
under agencies that are wanting to be proactive in their transit planning. So I just wanted to point
that out.
We've been doing a lot with employee recognition. We've had division barbecues at all the bus
divisions and all the rail divisions. And I know that some Board members were getting around to
those. So thank you very much for that.
The Chair did mention the CAC meeting. Myself and Michael Ford are going to attend the next
Citizen Advisory Committee to really talk about operator shortage and some other topics. And I
think that's just coming down in a couple of weeks.
On Monday, we had our annual presentation to the Transportation Legislative Review
Committee. And I thank the Board members that in attendance there. I thought we had a good
summary presentation. We had a few questions at the meeting.
But also, after another group had presented later in the day, we've received a request to provide a
summary of our Access-A-Ride services, and really how they work and that kind of thing. So

we're hopeful to have that summary to the TLRC committee members tomorrow. We've just got
one little thing to finish on that report, and we will do that.
I want to touch on the awards today. It was really a privilege to be involved, and to recognize
and celebrate our outstanding employees. And of course, we have a lot of superstars throughout
the organization. And I thank the Board members that were there today as well.
Just for Board members that haven't been able to see this before, we give awards in a variety of
different categories. The first one is operators that have 16 or more consecutive years of
accident-free operations-- 16 or more consecutive years. And there's a number of them from all
the divisions. We give out a Spirit of RTD Award category.
We have an Operator of the Year, which is based on what our patrons submit. And so we select
one from the monthly-- the Operator of the Month. And the story was very compelling for the
Operator of the Year that was selected for this.
We have Keep the Wheels Turning Award, and then we have Outstanding Achievement and
General Manager's Award. So it was a really, I think-- kudos to our events team It was a welldone event, and it was, just like I said, a real honor and privilege to acknowledge and celebrate
our great team.
Regarding some of the information we've been talking about on operator shortage, we did send
out the draft initial outreach plan to the Board of Directors. And so you have that. We did receive
a few comments. But if you have any other comments, please let us know.
We've really been-- I would say that we've informally kicked off our outreach. We've been
leveraging all of the meetings that are currently scheduled. I'm talking quite a bit about this at
every meeting I have, especially with our stakeholders. And we'll really be launching some more
things in earnest tomorrow, including a survey that will be going out on social media, and other
venues, so that we can start gaining information on the outreach.
But I did want to let the Board know about a few of the milestones that we talked about in the
plan. Obviously, as the Board has asked us, and which was the consensus at the last meeting, and
then also really confirmed with the Executive Committee, to go out and do public outreach
before we come back to the Board with anything. So we're starting that process. We'll be doing
that over the next several weeks.
We'll be bringing back to the Board-- at a Board study session on November 21. We'll be
bringing back to you a summary of the kinds of input and feedback we're receiving. We'll
summarize that as best we can. We'll provide some of the staff thoughts around that, and then
largely hear from the Board on your thoughts, and have a discussion about what are the next
steps that the Board would like to see in the process.
And then of course, as we move along, if we take the next step to develop a potential plan, then
we would have another round of public input, just like we do with run boards. That would most
likely take place in January. And then any final discussion with the Board maybe in February.

But these are just loose placeholders for now. It really just depends on the input we receive and
the discussion we have at the next touchpoint with all of you, which will be on November 21.
And of course, we will follow the direction of the Board on how we move forward with this.
The last item I just want to mention-- and I don't think he's here. And it's not because he's out
celebrating. I know he's working on probably a work item.
But John Thompson, who is the Executive Director, or the Project Director, for Denver Transit
Partners, many of you know-- I think I sent an announcement to the Board that John is retiring.
He's going to be moving back to his homeland of England, where his family is.
But he has been involved on our project for over five years. And I think he's been just an
incredible professional along the way. He's brought a great deal-- oh, he's brought a great deal. I
want to-- John, you're just in time.
[LAUGHS]
I'm just talking about you now. So, welcome. So I just want to say a few words about John. He's
just been an outstanding professional to work with. I have a great deal of respect for John's level
of professionalism and as a colleague, and just as a person. I've really enjoyed working with him.
I'm going to miss working with him on this project. I know we'll stay in touch as we talk about
things that are happening around the industry. But he's brought a great deal of experience and
wisdom and leadership to this project.
And he's not only worked well with his team, the DTP team, but the RTD team and all of our
stakeholders. He's done a great job with community outreach and community engagement. And
so if the Chairman indulges, I'd like to invite John to say a few words to the Board, if that's OK
with you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: We would be honored to have Mr. Thompson approach the podium, and give
us a minute or two, up to three, his thoughts and observations relative to our relationship over the
years that he has been with Denver Transit Partners. Mr. Thompson, the floor is yours, sir.
JOHN THOMPSON: Thank you. And I caught the end of Dave's words there, which I'm very
grateful for. And this is such a fantastic project to be associated with. And for my small role in it,
I'm very, very grateful.
I was going to think about what to say here. It's all been said. It's a success story. It's achieving
everything we hoped for and more.
And I think that it's times like this that you reflect on the leaders, to Dave and to Chair Tisdale,
because we hang out from the crowd a little bit at times. Yes, we get to make decisions and we
get to see our influences come back to us, and reward us in that way. But it can be lonely at
times, and that goes with the territory as far as that goes.

So to that end, I saw John Lithgow do a version of this recently on a chat show. And if you'll
indulge me, and if the media maintain what we call in the UK Chatham House rules, that this is
not really for publication. And it's not it's not a criticism. It's my observations of you guys over
the years, and I hope-- it's an attempt at humor, and that can backfire. So I hope it works.
Anyway, he is the very model of a modern RTD Chairman. He has information vegetable and
animal and liberal. He's erudite, articulate, and speaks with little yellin'.
He knows a lot of actors, and has met Sir Ian McKellen. Who as you know played Gandalf in a
most successful movie. And I'm addressing you by your first names here, not disrespectfully, but
just for the rhyme-- who as you know played Gandalf in a most successful movie, while Claudia
looks out for opportunities to say "groovy."
And Kate and Natalie have tendencies to be revolting. Kate's way is most acceptable, while
mastiff Ted is molting. And Natalie's figurative weapon of choice is the axe, while Judy says,
where's our train? After all we've paid the tax.
[LAUGHTER]
Shelley followed Lynn. And now, the G line is customer satisfying. While her energy is clearly,
to quote the Chair, electrifying.
The answers to Peggy's questions are the ones I'm glad I don't have to own. And Shontel is an
expert in the intricacies of the quiet zone. And Lynn, who followed Chuck, will have to get a
little older, while waiting for the train to make its way to Boulder.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm sparing Angie, Troy, Ken, and Bob for now. But not Director Jeff, whose understated
humility is a wow. And if there is Director that the Chair has to convince, the only one that
rhymes is the one that is named Vince.
[LAUGHTER]
And he can write a washing bill in Babylonic cuneiform, and tell you everything, every detail of
Caractacus' uniform. In short, in matters vegetable and animal and mineral, Chair Tisdale is the
model of a modern RTD chairman. Doesn't really scan very well, but it was just [INAUDIBLE]
attempt-[APPLAUSE]
Thank you very much. It's been an absolute slice. Thank you very much.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
[APPLAUSE]

DOUG TISDALE: It is a distinct privilege to work with someone who can understand how to be
a gentleman in all elements of our interactions, be they challenging or not challenging. And for
your information, the item that I was holding in my hand during the picture, is a yo-yo that Mr.
Thompson brought back from Promontory Point, Utah. And he gave one to the General Manager
and one to me, and it's in commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the driving of the golden
spike at Promontory Point, Utah. So one side says Union Pacific, and the other side says Central
Pacific. All right, Director Menten, I believe you had a question.
[INAUDIBLE]
Oh, you would like to go offline with it? You don't want to-NATALIE MENTEN: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you very much. Are there any questions, comments relative to
General Manager's report at this time? Yeah, Secretary Walker. You are recognized, sir.
JEFF WALKER: I just wanted to comment on Mr. Genova's his observation of TRANSform. It
seemed a lot different than the previous APTA conferences I've been to. It seemed a lot more
customer-focused.
A lot of them are pretty policy-oriented and technical. But this one seemed to be a lot more
customer-focused. And I think that is in line with what Mr. Genova said about us trying to serve
us as an industry, redesigning our systems.
Like I do when I go to these things, I asked a bunch of directors or CEOs, etc., how they're
handling-- if they have drivers shortages. All of them said yes. How they're handling them. And
there's a lot of overlap with what we're doing, and what they are doing also, to address that
problem.
So I think what we're doing as an industry is looking for ways to solve that and get our customers
where they need to be. And like I said last week, give some relief to our operators. And when I
say I asked, I asked large agencies and small agencies, and all of them are facing the same
problems. That's it. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very, Mr. Secretary. Madam First Vice Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. To tag along, I was able to tour New York City's
Select Bus Service, the 14th Street Select Bus Service. And what they told me during our tour-it was really great, was that one of the first systems that they looked at in order to model their
14th Avenue bus was the 16th Street Mall.
And I actually learned a lot, and was excited about some of the things that they did as it might
apply to the Colfax and other BRT routes that we're going to be looking at. So it was really,
really helpful to me. That's all.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any further comments or questions relative the
General Manager's report? All right, then. We turn to our unanimous consent agenda.
We have several items on the unanimous consent agenda tonight. They are noted as agenda item
XI, actions A through F. These relate to the RTD Citizen Advisory Committee appointments,
modeling on-call contract amendment, approving contract modification with Cambridge
Systematics, a resolution authorizing the refunding of series 2010A bonds, a resolution
authorizing the refunding of series 2010A certificates of participation, and the January 2020
service changes.
If anyone has a change to a question on any particular item, you can advise the chair at this time.
We'll be very happy, of course, to remove the item from the unanimous consent agenda. I do
note two speakers in the queue in that regard. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to pull D and E.
DOUG TISDALE: And those would be the two resolutions concerning the refunding, correct?
All right. So that's D and E from agenda item number 11. Those will be pulled. Director Lubow,
you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to mention about-- its new letter D, the January
2020 service changes. I'm not asking that it be pulled.
But it concerns the changes to the LD, which is the regional route from Longmont to Denver.
And I was really pleased that our staff cooperated with the staff of Boulder County, and the other
municipalities, to come up with the best case solution to reduction in service and change in
service because of a loss of grant funding. However, I didn't get a chance to go to the Longmont
public hearing about it.
And I looked at the comments. I looked at the comments. There were 32 comments about the
LD, and 30 of them were really negative. And they were doing what people in my district
typically do, which is give their opinions and their distress about the reduction in service, and the
lack of good service between Longmont and Lafayette and Denver.
And it just made me realize that, although I really love the cooperation that our staff and the
jurisdictions showed in coming up with the best resolution possible, I felt really bad for my
constituents, because they just feel shafted on a lot of levels. So I just wanted to say that. I'm still
going to be a yes on this thing because I was involved with the cooperative effort. But I hope,
maybe in Reimagine, we could look into how to handle the people who have been promised
services, and not given them for a long amount of time and how we can help them. Thank you
for listening.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
You have an item you'd like to pull or question on the unanimous consent agenda?
SHONTEL LEWIS: B and C. Thank you, Chair.

DOUG TISDALE: B and C? OK, so that's the modeling on-call contract amendment and the
approval of the contract modification with Cambridge Systematics. All right, that leaves us, at
this point in time, with just two items on the unanimous consent agenda. Those two items being
the RTD Citizen Advisory Committee appointments and the January 2020 service changes
TROY WHITMORE: Move approval.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion from Director Whitmore to approve the consent agenda.
There is a second by Director Williams. Is there any discussion on that motion?
[INAUDIBLE]
If not, if the directors will please vote after Director Whitmore casts his ballot and Director
Williams casts her ballot as a movant and second, and then the rest of us will vote. By a vote of
14 in favor and none opposed, the unanimous consent agenda of the two items enumerated has
passed. We will now turn to the items that have been pulled from the unanimous consent agenda.
And that will commence with the modeling on-call contract amendment, which is now listed as
recommended action item C.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs FasTracks committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the
contract with Cambridge Systematics for on-call travel modeling services to increase the contract
not to exceed amount by $1,300,000 to a total of $1,800,000. Funding for 2019 work orders to be
issued under this contract is included in 2019 amended expense budget and specific projects for
which the work orders will be issued. Funding for future work orders would be included in the
2020 to 2025 Mid-Term Financial Plan and future projects. This action addresses three of the
General Manager's goals for 2019, as enumerated in the statement. Is there a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion to approve this agenda recommended action. Is there a
second to the motion?
JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a second. And now we can have discussion on the motion. Director
Lewis, you're in line.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This will be the same for both B and C. And my comments are the same for
both. This came to us after we had a presentation on the budget and learned about the $43
million deficit.
The reason I'm pulling this out is because I've noticed a trend, a theme, in which we will get
contracts and ask to increase the amount of that contract without any information background-so the specifics on why that contract is being increased and what that money will be useful for.
And so this is just a general observation. If we're going to be making better financial decisions, I

think there's an opportunity for us to question more as a Board what that money is going to be
used for. And are there opportunities for us to spend our money much more wisely and to not?
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Madam Treasurer, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. This similarly caught my eye, partly because the original
contract was last year for $500,000. Now it's being suddenly increased by $1.3 million. I was
surprised at the amount and the lack of specificity in offering that. So I agree in some ways.
I've had a chance to talk to Bill Van Meter and Lee Cryer. And what I understand is about a third
of this is for the T2 study. And then the other parts are related to items that they may or may not
need in the next coming years.
I am still going to support it based upon what they've described. But I am worried on two levels.
One is similar to what you've expressed. That we have a tendency to modify our contracts
seemingly fairly readily. And now that we're looking at pretty significant cuts, I'm thinking we
need to look at that a little bit more carefully.
And the second thing is the T2 study is already at $4 million. And we've got another amount
that's being added to it. Now, from what Bill Van Meter says, we knew we were going to be
adding this.
We just didn't have a chance to identify the specifics of the modeling needed until we actually
had the contractor on. And what's more, the amount was budgeted. But it still concerns me, and I
want to be keeping a close eye on that T2 amount, so that we're not letting that inflate needlessly.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I just wanted to commend both of these comments I do think
because we've talked about service cuts that there are a lot of places we have. And I know that
Heather and her team are looking hard at a lot of things. But I agree. I think we need to have full
explanations, and be able to really, really check what we're spending. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Director Cook, I just want to-- You said $4 million, but I
believe we're closer to $4.7.
DAVE GENOVA: I believe it's $4.17. [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: Let's ask Mr. Van Meter if he can provide some clarification to that question.
BILL VAN METER: I don't have the exact-- this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager
of Planning. I don't have the exact numbers in front of me. But the authorization in February, as I

recall-- no. I'm venturing into dangerous territory. The contract amount was in the $4.1 million,
with FHU (Felsberg, Holt, and Ullevig) in the prime range.
And then there was also additional work, as disclosed at that time in February, for the Cambridge
Systematics financial work, and then this additional amount of work. So it is above that amount
for the total effort. But I don't have the exact numbers in front of me.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I seem to remember $4.7 million. So my question, then, is whether the
Cambridge was within that. I know you can't confirm right now. But that number is pretty solid
in my head, because I was using nearly $5 million.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. We can get back to you on the exact. But
the Cambridge amount is for the cost model, which was originally in the scope of work for the
consultant.
We made a decision that that expertise was needed outside of the prime contract. And so we
pulled the money out. So the cost model is part of the original total dollar amount that was
approved. I just can't remember the exact amount, either.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I mean, I might be wrong. Halloween, trick or treat. But thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. Thank you, Chair. I will say that [INAUDIBLE] bringing these out
because it's important for us to look at these things differently. For this particular contract, I am
in support of it, because of the value-add for our customers in this particular instance.
But I will say, as a Board, we should be looking at these contracts, and ensuring that the things
that we are paying for are absolutely things that we need. Because what we're going to be asking
the public is that they go without. And we have to internally also go without, if that's what we're
going to be asking.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much, Chair. I also wanted to commend the fellow Board
members who brought this issue up. I think it's worthy of analysis. And I had raised before the
idea of, gee, we also have a whole bunch of IT contracts, and there's just a lot of money going
out. So I think it's good to analyze these things with greater specificity. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I will second the observation made that it is great to
have, and important to have, Directors contact staff prior to a committee meeting or, following a
committee meeting and prior to a Board meeting, to ask your questions relative to various items,
to ensure that you are satisfied as to those. And if you have questions that persist or objections
that persist, obviously, you should bring those up in the Board meeting and vote accordingly. I
believe that staff has adequately, as Treasurer Cook has explained to us, responded to the timing
and rationale for these.

And I would urge a positive vote on agenda item number XII C, the approval of the contract
modification with Cambridge Systematics. The movement on this was Director Rivera-Malpiede.
The second was Director Walker. Is there any further discussion?
Seeing none, if the voters would now vote per that call. By a vote of 12 in favor and two
opposed, the motion passes. The opposed votes were Director Menten and Director Williams.
And that motion passes.
We then turn to agenda item number XII D. This is the resolution-- I'm sorry. Wait, did I just-[INAUDIBLE]
I'm sorry. Oh, I read the wrong thing. My fault. We were dealing with-- I apologize.
Wow, it's Halloween. That's my excuse. We were voting on modeling the on-call contract
amendment, correct?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and that's what we're voting. I may have announced it as approving the
contract modification with Cambridge. If I did, that was in error. Let the record reflect
[INAUDIBLE] take a number for me, because I'm not going to be able to talk to him.
[LAUGHTER]
As I understand it, we were voting on the modeling on-call contract amendment. That passed by
a vote of 12 to 2. We now turn to agenda XII C, which is approving contract. And I think it's
here. XII D is what it says on the agenda here, yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: They're both Cambridge.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, and this is approving the contract modification with Cambridge
Systematics. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to increase contract authority with Cambridge Systematics, contract number 15DJ005,
from the current level of $763,728 by $300,000 to a total new contract amount of $1,063,728 in
support of the General Manager's goals as recited. May have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Vice Chair. Is there a second?
JEFF WALKER: Second.

DOUG TISDALE: There is the second from the Secretary. Is there any discussion on that?
Director Madam First Vice Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I agree that we should take a look at some of these
contracts a little more carefully. So I thank you for bringing that up, Director Lewis.
This one, I think, has been a frustration in my community for the information that was not made
available when some of the fixed routes were changed to Flex Ride routes. And I was told at the
time that staff was working on a way that we could get this information available to our
constituents more readily. So I'm in support of this, because I think it can really enhance our
customers' planning experience for their trips. So I just wanted to support this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam First Vice Chair. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I may have gotten confused with the two Cambridges.
Which one did you previously-- what was that?
DOUG TISDALE: The first one was the change in contract from $500,000 to $1.8 million
SHONTEL LEWIS: For?
DOUG TISDALE: For on-call travel modeling services.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, I thought that-DOUG TISDALE: That was the first one. This is now the contract modification that would raise
the contract by $300,000 for the separate contract 15DJ005.
SHONTEL LEWIS: For the Flex Ride? OK, so I meant to flip those two, because I actually am
in support of this and I'm not in support of that. And so let the record reflect that I actually don't
support that first one. So my answer should be a no.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, the one that we just voted on, where we cast you as an affirmative
vote, you would like to change that vote from an affirmative to a negative vote on that agenda
item?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: And is there objection from the body for Director Lewis to change her vote?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Hearing none, Madam Counsel, are we in a position to allow her, with the
unanimous consent of the body, to change the recording of her vote?

Well, I believe that the parliamentary rules say that you can't change your vote after it's been
cast. But if there's unanimous consent to allow her to do that, I defer to the Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Yes, and that is the rule. But that's why I said if there is
unanimous consent, because we don't want the Director to have her vote misunderstood. So it is
clear now, for the sake of this record, we're voting on-- we will be after the discussion's over,
voting on the contract modification with Cambridge Systematics from the current level of
$763,000 by $300,000 to $1,063,000.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Are we clear on that? Thank you. Director Lewis, any further comments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I am in support of this. But again, I'm just going to raise the exact same
thing. As we are looking at deficits that we are asking our constituents and our riders to go
without, that we are being very thoughtful in our decisions to approve additional funding of any
sort for any contract with that understanding. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just a small note. I thought our bylaws said something like we could
change a vote if somebody had made a mistake.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: Right, so she made a mistake. So it's not even a special situation. Just to
note that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: For the sake of the record, Director Lewis said she intended to vote against
the one in favor of the other. So her vote on the prior issue has been changed to a negative vote.
Are we ready to vote on agenda item XII D, the Cambridge Systematics increase of a contract by
$300,000?
We have Vice Chair Catlin as the movant. We have Secretary Walker as the second. If you two
would please vote, then the rest of us may vote. By a vote of 14 in favor and none opposed, this
motion, agenda item XII D passes.
We turn now to agenda item XII E. This is the resolution authorizing the refunding of series
2010A bonds. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached resolution number authorizing the issuance of sales tax
revenue bonds, FasTracks project of the Regional Transportation District Colorado, to refund
certain outstanding FasTrack bonds, providing for other matters related to such bonds and
security therefore, and improving execution and delivery of certain documents in connection
with the transactions contemplated thereby. The recommended action supports General
Manager's goals as stated in the record. May I have a motion?

KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams. And I have a second?
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second from the Treasurer. Is there any discussion on that motion?
Seeing none, Director Broom you are-- yeah, you're the one who pulled this off. So Director
Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. The questions I have would apply to both D and E. And I
guess Heather's the person I'm addressing my questions to.
We're all familiar with doing current refunding in advance refundings. In this case, we're doing
forward current refunding. What is that? Could you explain that?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: So we're calling upon our Chief Financial Officer to respond to Director
Broom's question. You are recognized.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. So that is a new term. We talked about it
very briefly last time. We no longer can do advance refundings per, I think it was December
2017, tax changes.
So what we look forward to now is any opportunity that we have to do a call provision. Both of
these are callable in 2020. And what the forward delivery allows us to do is use today's
exceptional low rates, lock in those rates, but not deliver the bonds to the purchasers until the 90
days prior to the call date, which is next year. So we are proceeding with that.
The risk that you run is that interest rates might go down between now and sometime early next
year. Or on the flip side, interest rates could go up, which is what we're thinking, and why we
want to pursue these at this time. Does that answer the question?
DOUG TISDALE: Director Broom, you may proceed.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. But I guess the additional question to that, does this expose us to any
other additional risks that you normally would have with a refunding?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather again. The risks or similar, in that from the time that
you do the preliminary close to the actual close date, we always have the issue of some type of
force majeure, or some type of legislation that would prevent us from doing this type of
transaction. If that were to occur, then the transaction would just become null and void. The
biggest risk that we run is an interest rate risk. That interest rates would actually decline between
now and the date on which we could call them.

BOB BROOM: Thank you. Then one final question. The savings on this is on the front end. And
usually, you look to do finance savings, savings at the end, or level debt service. Why did you
choose to use front end savings?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather again. The reason we chose to do that was because we
need the money sooner rather than later right now. And so we were looking for as much front
end savings as we could get with these deals. That is a practice we've done with the last several
deals, is try to load it as much on the front end as we possibly can without there being a risk
around paying more in interest.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I move for approval.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, we already have a motion on the table. Thank you very much for
indication of support. Any further discussion on this resolution?
Seeing none, Director Williams was the movant. Treasurer Cook was the second. If you two
would please vote, then the rest of us may vote. By a vote of 14 in favor and none opposed, the
resolution authorizing the refunding of the series 2010A bonds has now passed.
We turn then to agenda item XII F. And this is a resolution authorizing the refunding of the
series 2010A certificate of participation. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approve the attach resolution number authorizing
the execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and related documents in
connection with the refinancing of the 2010A certificates of participation, referred to as COPs.
The recommended action supports General Manager's goals, as stated in the record. Is there a
motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Buzek. Is there a second? I have a second from
the First Vice Chair. And is there discussion on this motion?
I take it that Director Broom, having removed the item from the consent agenda, has had his
questions answered in the prior discussion. And so, therefore it's understandable there may be no
further questions. Last call. Any further discussion? None?
All those in favor will follow the vote of Director Buzek and First Vice Chair Catlin so that we
may proceed with this item. By a vote of 14 in favor and none opposed, the resolution XII F, as
in Frank, has passed unanimously. We turn, then, to the federal liaison services contract.
It is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a new agreement
for federal liaison services with Squire Patton Boggs, LLC, for a three-year contract at a cost of
$828,000. That's $23,000 per month, the same rate as currently being paid, with two one year
options. Option year one at $276,000 and option year two at $276,000. The total amount of the
five year contract of $1,308,000 was below staff's internal cost estimate, and funding for this

contract is included in the annual budgets. The recommended action supports the General
Manager's goals as stated in the record. May I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion that I'll recognize from Rivera-Malpiede, and I have a second
from Buzek. Is there discussion on this motion? Seeing none, if Second Vice Chair RiveraMalpiede will cast her vote, and Director Buzek you cast your vote as the second, then the rest of
us may cast our votes.
By a vote of 13 in favor and one opposed, the motion passes. The one negative vote was from
Director Menten. And just for the sake of the record, that wasn't a mistake. That's what you
meant.
NATALIE MENTEN: I have consistently voted against all lobbyist contracts since the day I got
on this Board.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be affirmative. Yes, I voted no.
DOUG TISDALE: That's perfect. We then turn to the agenda item number XII H. This is the
adoption of the 2020-2025 Mid-term Financial Plan. It is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopt the 2020-2025 Midterm Financial Plan, which recommended action supports the General Manager's goals as stated
in the record. May I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams, and a second from Director
Whitmore. Is there discussion on the motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Treasurer [INAUDIBLE]. I'm sorry, Director Lubow, you are
recognized. Well, there was a switch there.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to mention that the financial plan includes
the Leeds forecast, the standard one, without any change to it in light of the problems that we've
had this year. And that concerns me. And I know it would have been late to make a change based
on that concern now.
But I wanted to raise it. So I will be voting for this. But I would hope that, in the future, we have
a thorough discussion on what's appropriate in terms of the Leeds forecast. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for sharing that observation Director Lubow. I think it's
appropriate for all of us to keep that in mind-- that as these projections change, circumstances do
change, and we have called upon our staff to be pretty reliably conservative when dealing with
these matters. And yet, being aware of the quality of information that we received from the
Leeds business school, which seems to be pretty high-quality information.
Are there other comments relative to agenda item number XII H, the adoption of the 2020-2025
Mid-term Financial Plan? Seeing none, Director Williams, if you would vote first as the movant,
and Director Whitmore, if you would vote as the second, then the rest of us may cast our votes.
By a vote of 13 in favor and one opposed, the 2020-2025 Mid-term Financial Plan is adopted.
The negative vote was from Director Menten.
We turn then to the next item on our agenda, which is agenda item number XII L. And this is the
approval of the 2020 fiscal policy. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approves and adopts the revised Fiscal Policy Statement
for 2020, which recommended action supports the General Manager's goals as stated in the
record. May I have a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Treasurer. Is there a second?
[INAUDIBLE]
There is a second from Director Guissinger, according to Director Williams.
[LAUGHTER]
So we have that. Is there discussion on the motion? Seeing none, Madam Treasurer, if you would
cast the first vote as the movant, and Director Guissinger if you would cast the second, then we
will proceed accordingly. By a vote of 12 in favor and two opposed, the amended fiscal-- strike
that, Fiscal Policy Statement of 2020, the revised fiscal policy statement, is adopted.
Directors Menten and Mihalik were the negative votes on that item. The next recommended
action is agenda item XII J. This is a motion to approve pension plan contribution.
BOB BROOM: Move to approval.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me read it for the record. But I'm going to note, Director Broom is the
movant. It's recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee the RTD Board
of Directors adopt a 2020 contribution of $6.1 million to RTD's salaried employees Defined
Benefit Pension trust, the DB Plan, which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement.
It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2020 contribution of 9% of each
participant's eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees' Defined Contribution plan, the DC

Plan, which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment, in support
of General Manager's task goals as listed. Director Broom is the movant. Who is the second?
JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There is the second from Director Whitmore. Or was that Walker?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: That was Walker.
SPEAKER 1: I was just pointing [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER 2: It was a W.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. See, I get all this assistance. That helps with my
hearing.
So Director Broom is the movant. Secretary Walker is the second. Director Lewis, you are
recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I have a few questions for Heather. So going back to this budget
deficit, the first question I have is, have we looked at the RTD contributions. I know we're
proposing 9% here. What money we could save if we were to maybe look at 5%?
DOUG TISDALE: I'll look to the Chief Financial Officer, if she has a response that she can give,
or an indication of when she might be able to respond.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I don't have the exact amount. But-- I'm sorry. This is Heather
McKillop. So if you look at the document the difference between a 7% and a 9%, it's
approximately $1 million. So we could extrapolate that number that it might be several million
dollars.
In order to change the 5%, we'd have to go back to the original resolution, because the Board has
an adopted resolution that the lowest the contribution amount would go would be 7%. So that's
why we haven't looked at below that amount. Since inception, we have funded it at the 9%.
We have looked at that number, though, this year, as it relates to compensation for employees in
light of the budget issues for 2020. And I don't know if GM Genova would like to address that.
But we had a considerable discussion about leaving it at that higher amount due to the fact that
we were going to reduce the contribution for salary increases, as well as vacancy savings, which
hit our employees pretty hard from the salaried side. So I don't know if you want to add anything
to that, but I could go back and get you the exact dollar amount for 5%. But again, that would be
a change in the original Board resolution regarding the pension contribution.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And I'm not necessarily suggesting 5%. I'm asking, like, have
we looked at what a reduction could look like, and if money could be saved as we're looking at
budget pitfalls and deficits?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We did have that conversation. Internally.
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager, did you wish to supplement to that?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, just, Mr. Chairman, that as we we've been working through the 2020
budget, we've been making a great deal of progress. And we do have a balanced budget we'll be
proposing to the Board soon that we've been able to realize. And so that will be coming next
month.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And so, Heather, you mentioned-- I have to followups. When we first
were elected, we went through, like, boot camp. And I remember, there was-- yeah, it's cool,
though.
We talked about the investments for the salary side and for the represented side. What does it
look like on the represented side? If it's 9% on this side, what is it on the other side.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. This is Heather again. So on the represented side, RTD
contributes 13% to the pension, and 5% the employee contributes. In addition to that 13%, RTD
also contributes another $6.2 million flat amount at the beginning of the year, rather than on a
monthly basis. That probably equates to another 7% to 10%. So we're upwards of 20-plus
percent contribution for the represented employee.
On the contribution for salaried employees that have a pension plan that started prior to January
2008, we do it on a lump sum amount. But if we calculate it based on a per employee
contribution, it's about 20% And then for the employees on the salary side that started after
January 2008, when we disbanded the original pension plan due to its solvency issues, we
contribute the 9%.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, and one more followup. You mentioned for the salaries a reduction in
the percentage of increases for pay increase increases?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Have we looked at a full, like, freeze on-- not a percentage?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Like a full freeze on everyone, and not just a reduction?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Mr. General Manager. You may respond.

DAVE GENOVA: We've looked at a variety of options on that, and we were actually looking at
a 0% increase. But we've been able to do some other things to balance the budget. So we're
actually looking at about half of the level of increase that we would normally budget for salaried
increases. So we typically budget an average of 3% typically in any given budget year. So this
year, or for 2020, we're looking at 1.5% on average.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And so if you were not looking at 1.5%, if you were looking at 0%, what is
the amount of money that we might be able to save?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want answer that-- this is Heather. So the 1.5% is $1.5 million.
$1.470 the exact amount. So we did look at it.
The concern about taking that to 0% is we are falling behind market. And so with no raises, we
fall further behind market, and makes it harder to recruit employees. And then we'll just have to
make that up in the future as we fall further and further behind market. So that's the analysis that
we continue to look at. Does it make sense to get further and further behind, or does it make
sense to at least be able to allocate an overall pool?
Now remember, not every employee gets that 1.5%. It's a pool. So it's based on what your
performance rating is. And we take all the performance rating, and we divvy out that pool.
So there'll be people that get significantly less than 1.5%. There might get some people that get
1.5%, or slightly more than that. But overall, that's the pool that we're recommending.
We still have some additional movement in the numbers right now. So I don't want to for sure
say [INAUDIBLE] the employees one way or the other at this point in time. But if we don't do
that, and we did consider that at length, then you get further and further behind.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I hear that. I just think, if we're looking at deficits, that we might
want to look throughout the entire agency. And I know several Board members have asked about
the specifics. And I think that's an area that we might seriously consider. And I think there are
other areas.
But if we aren't looking at that, then again, going back to you we're asking our riders to take a
hit, and we aren't taking a hit as an agency. And I don't think that's fair. Thank you, Heather.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I have a question for the General Manager. When you
say that we have balanced the budget with 1.5% and 9% to the pension, is that assuming a $9
million savings from cutting service [INAUDIBLE]?
DAVE GENOVA: I'm sorry. Mr. Chair? No-[INTERPOSING VOICES]

DAVE GENOVA: We balanced it with taking-- the $9 million placeholder that you saw at the
last committee has been removed from that balancing. So we've been able to balance the 2020
budget without that. So if we were to move forward with some type of a temporary reduction, we
would just put that money into some kind of a holding account. We don't need-- I'll be very clear.
We do not need to do any reduction in service to balance the budget.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [INAUDIBLE] Is this fairly easy to give us an idea of what you changed
to save that $9 million, or is that a long explanation?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, we'll be bringing all those details at the next Finance and
Administration Committee, unless Heather, if you want-- if there's a couple of larger topics that
you might want to cover.
DOUG TISDALE: The Chair is going to call the order of the day on this. It's beyond the scope
of the motion. It's appropriate to ask. But I think, as General Manager just said, we can do that at
the Finance Committee meeting, when there will be a full explication of those changes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm OK with that, although I don't think it's beyond the scope. Because if
we're being asked to decide whether to put 9% and 7% as another option, then it's $1 million
here, it's a million there. So knowing what we did to balance that budget seems like a reasonable
request. If it's a long answer, I'm OK waiting. I just thought I'd-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we had-DOUG TISDALE: Chief Financial Officer.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry. This is Heather McKillop. So we did make quite a few
different adjustments. I don't remember all of them off the top my head. Although I should,
because I've been living them.
But one of the largest is, we were able to find out that an amount of money around the $6 million
mark that we had set aside for Burnham Yard will not be needed for that project until 2021. That
news came just a day or two ago. So that made a big difference. Otherwise, we had significant
other cuts.
When we present next week, we will be giving you a list of things that will be reduced, and
things that we will not be accomplishing for 2020. And so I'm sure that will generate quite a bit
of conversation. But from that perspective, we're really close to being balanced at this point in
time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. And then, Heather, you were saying that we are falling behind
market. And I think-- did we have a workshop set up, or is there some point at which we can
understand what the market is, if it's other transit agencies, or have a better feeling?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather again. Yes, Dave and I have talked about that. I'm
walking through setting up some type of-- I'm not sure yet. We haven't worked with Barbara on

exact days or times. But walking through how we do salary surveys, how we determine market,
how we do it for certain positions, those type of things. Yes, we're going to pursue that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I just want to add one thing. I mean, one of the concerns we do
have, as we do with the represented employees, is if we affect pay to a certain extent too much,
we could start seeing a huge exodus of employees on the salary side also. And we already have a
significant number of positions that are very difficult to recruit with what we currently pay on the
salary side. And I'm just very concerned about that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: For the sake of the record, the comment was made at the meeting next week.
We do not have a meeting next week November 5. There is a meeting in the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee on Tuesday, November 12, two weeks from last-- it is too
confusing. The week after next.
My apologies. I have to put it in next week's. So I'm ready for next week.
DOUG TISDALE: Concluded, Director Guissinger?
[INAUDIBLE]
Thank you. Madam First Vice Chair, you're recognized
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I agree with Director Guissinger. I think we really
ought to take a look at this.
In my mind, 9% is a generous contribution. And a lot of our customers, the only thing they get is
a social security contribution from their employees. Or if they're self-employed, they pay the
entire amount. So I think that it's reasonable to look at that.
I also am interested to know what the comparisons are in the industry to understand why it is we
believe that we're falling behind. I would like to see some of the details on that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam First Vice Chair. Director Broom, you're recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just for the record, I was under the impression that we weren't
doing service cuts because we didn't have the financial ability to pay. I thought we were doing
service cuts because we didn't have the manpower, and that might mean that there have to be less
money budgeted for overtime. But that's just a side. Is that true or not?
DOUG TISDALE: That is very well-stated, Director Broom. The service cuts have not been
proposed, as General Manager Genova just reiterated, because of any need to balance the budget.
They are for the other reasons that we've discussed, which include, among others, mandating

split shifts, issues with restroom breaks, and other quality of life issues. Mr. General Manager,
you may comment.
DAVE GENOVA: I think you covered it, Mr. Chair. So I would just like to be clear again. The
only service reductions that we're possibly looking at are due to availability of resources in terms
of operators and other labor, not financial resources.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Lewis, another bite at the apple.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's just an observation in response to that. That may not be the proposal.
But if you all recall from the documents that Heather presented to us, there was $9 million for
which we were going to save for a curtailment of service, which is service reductions.
So that's a piece that we should remember in the back of our minds. But also, when you reduce
service, you save money. And so I don't think we should be shy about saying that. You do save
money when you reduce service. And so those are the two things that I'd like us to remember.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. No, it's a distinction worth making that it's not the motivation for
it. There is an impact, there is an effect, of saving money, yes. But it's not the motivation for it.
Madam Treasurer, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: So I am worried about the way that the numbers are changing. And it is true,
we had a $9 million amount that immediately showed up that was attributable to the savings
from the shortage. So that gave rise to some questions about our true motivation on that.
Now, I'm really glad if we're able to change that. But we haven't had a chance to get our arms
around what has happened since the last meeting. And it seems like it wouldn't hurt to hold off
here, to commit to the pension amount, after we know that our budget is firmed up-- to evaluate
some of this additional information that we might have. So that's just one thought. Not that we'd
reject it entirely, but that perhaps we could just not approve it right now, and wait until we get
our budget firmed up before we proceed on this piece.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Second Vice Chair, you're recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have to agree with Director Cook. I
think that we are at a crossroads right now. We really need to take a step back and take a look at
what's happening and how we're going to be moving forward.
Particularly with all the things that are happening out in the community, I think our due
diligence, at least from this seat, is to take a step back, and let's really evaluate this and give it a
couple weeks and see how we move forward. I'd like to get more information and really do more
of a deep dive. Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. The Chair will note-- I'm
sorry, Director Guissinger, you are right recognized.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Just that I totally agree. I was going to ask the Chair or a counselor or
something how we do that?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, there's a simple procedure if you want to do it. And you can make a
motion, if you'd like. If you don't have one right now, I'm going to call on Secretary and
recognize him.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. My understanding is that this action is for the 2020 budget year.
And what I've heard Ms. McKillop say is that the budget is balanced for 2020. So there is
sufficient funds to fund this action in 2020, is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chief Financial Officer.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. Yes, that's correct.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thank you. So one of the things I've heard in talking about our operator
shortage is the conditions of operating. And no doubt about it, it's a tough job. I'm on that bus or
train several times a week.
I think that this shows our commitment to our operators by supporting them this way, along with
service reductions, which my understanding is meant to give them relief from those six-day
workweeks that they're facing now. So I think that if there's money for this. And if it shows our
support for our operators, then it's a clear choice to me that this motion should go forward.
So I'll be supporting this wholeheartedly, because I'll be getting on the train right after this
meeting. Hopefully, it shows up on time. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Director Menten, I'm going to recognize you first, because Director
Lewis has already spoken twice.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, though. Can I clarify something? This is Heather.
DOUG TISDALE: Please. Heather, yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I just want to make sure you know that this is just for the salaried
employees.
DOUG TISDALE: Not represented.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The represented plan, we already contribute-- that's already in the
CBA (collective bargaining agreement), and we contribute 13% now, plus an additional $6.2
million. I just wanted to make sure everybody was clear on that.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Thank you. I apologize for my error. I've been thinking about the
operator shortage for so long. And it says right there, clear as day, and you said it earlier, that

there could be an exodus of salaried employees. Whether salaried or operators, etc., we're still
showing support for our employees.
And I know, from other industries, that there's a shortage in office staff, salaried employees, in
several industries also. So I apologize for my mistake. Makes me look like I'm not paying
attention. I was, but my head was someplace else. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. secretary Director Menten, you're recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: I was just going to add that correction. But speaking to this issue in itself,
for somebody who was self-employed for a long time, and then also looking at the job market as
it stands right now, I just see this 9% as the people who are writing this document, this
recommendation, are the ones who directly benefit from it. And this is not, in my opinion, what
the average worker is getting.
And if you will look at some of the suggestions from Ann Marie, our auditor, she had suggested
that we do a salary comparison, and not just with Mountain States Legal. And we also throw in
the benefits, because I don't think that that has been accurately done. So this really should be
tabled. I was going to be a no vote, anyway. But I'm glad to hear.
And when we say that the budget so far is balanced and we'll cover it, that goes back to what
Director Lubow about was talking about earlier, and what those of us who've been on here long
enough know. Sales tax revenue, ridership revenue, are not what we saw projected. What are we
going to do? That comes in May, June, August? So anything that we could put away in savings,
those are my thoughts and comments.
And I would very much like to emphasize again, look back at what Ann Marie has said in the
past about doing an audit on the compensation, and going outside Mountain States Legal. Thank
you. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director, I take it you're not making a motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm in conflict because what I hear is 7%. I hear other figures. I think
that's-- OK, so I'm going to make a motion that this should be postponed until the-- brought back
for discussion at the November Finance Administration and Audit Committee on November 12.
DOUG TISDALE: So a motion has been made to a date certain, specifically the November 12
Finance and Audit Committee. Is there a second to the motion to table?
Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a second motion to table. Motion tables not discussable, not
debatable. Therefore, we'll proceed to a vote on the motion to table.
We don't need to do an electronic vote, do we? Madam Executive Manager? No? All right. So all
those in favor of tabling, please indicate by saying aye.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: All those opposed, please indicate similarly.
BOB BROOM: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Sounds like the ayes have it in favor of tabling. Is there question as to the
Chair's ruling on the vote? There is not.
The matter stands tabled. Wait, question? Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Motion to table is the technically correct [INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: If Director Buzek can advise us of what a motion to continue is, under
Roberts, I'll be happy to hear it.
[INAUDIBLE]
NATALIE MENTEN: Am I supposed to correct my wording?
DOUG TISDALE: No, I think table is the correct wording. But I leave it to our parliamentarian.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: We've conferred, and we believe that's a proper motion, because it's tabled to a
date certain the next.
DOUG TISDALE: Tabled to a date certain. That's what we said, and I identified it as a tabling to
a date certain, November 12. Like I said, the next Finance and Audit Committee.
Motion has been made and voted favorably. The matter stands tabled to November 12 for further
consideration by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee. That was agenda item XII
J. For the approval of the pension plan contribution, we turn then to agenda item XII K, which is
the benefit plan approval. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee the Board of Directors approves the 2020 plan year salary benefits plan, and
authorizes the General Manager, CEO, or his designee to enter into agreements with the
insurance carriers, which recommended action supports the General Manager's goals as stated in
the record. May I have a motion?
BOB BROOM: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Broom. Is there a second?

KEN MIHALIK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second from Director Buzek. Discussion on the motion for the benefit plan
approval? I'm sorry. Oh, it was Director Mihalik. Sorry, thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: All right, Director Mihalik is the second on the motion. Discussion on the
motion for the benefit plan approval. Seeing none, if Director Broom would vote first as the
movant, and Director Mihalik vote next as the second, and the rest of us may vote following that.
By a vote of 13 in favor and one opposed, the benefit plan approval motion is adopted. The
negative vote was from Director Lewis.
We turn then to the last recommended action item on our agenda, which is agenda item number
XII L. This is the Wagon Road Park and Ride 144th FlexRide. It is recommended that the
Operations and Customer Service Committee of the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to enter into a four-year contract with Smart Commute Metro North
Transportation Management Organization for the implementation and ongoing grant
administration of the new Wagon Road Park'n'Ride 144th FlexRide.
This grant includes $1.6 million in initial funding and $400,000 in local match for a total grant
amount of $2 million. The total not to exceed RTD contribution of this grant is $150,000. It is
also recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorized the General Manager or his designee to amend the current ADA paratransit
FlexRide services contract with Via Mobility Services contract 16DH047 to allow RTD to
distribute grant funds to Via Mobility services to operate the new Wagon Road 144th FlexRide.
The contract increase for the new FlexRide service is $303,161 for year one, $317,099 for year
two, $331,927 for year three. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors direct fuel costs in
an amount estimated to be $36,840 for year one, $37,945 for year two, and $39,050 for year
three. The fourth year cost for the Wagon Road 144th FlexRide service will not be included in
this amendment since contract 16DHL47 will be rebid during 2022. The initial three-year not to
exceed amount for services is $952,186, and the fuel is $113,835. The recommended action
supports General Manager's goals as stated in the record. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Williams. I have a second from Rivera-Malpiede.
Discussion on the motion. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. What brings the most concern to me about this, besides that
it's a FlexRide-- and FlexRides, in a lot of the cases, majority of the cases, almost all the cases-has a very high subsidy level, which is not a good way to spend money. My concern is that we
are going into a discussion about potentially reducing service because of a worker shortage,
whether it's RTD or the subcontractors, and today we're adding one on, which I think will require

three drivers. We've got-- what is the total amount of drivers here? We've got three-- two
additional cutaway buses. And I think we're going to need three drivers, even if it's Via.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Director, is that a question directed to someone?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Mr. Matthews.
DOUG TISDALE: Stand, come forward, identify, and respond.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian Mathews, Manager of Special Services. Yes, three full-time
drivers.
NATALIE MENTEN: So this is what gives me concern, when we're just entering into a
discussion about a workforce problem, and we're adding on. And again, if FlexRides had
outstanding performance and a subsidy of $2.00 per head, $2.00 per boarding, maybe. But I don't
know what the average on the FlexRides-- sorry, FlexRIdes. But it's not very good, so this gives
me concern. I'll leave it at that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Menten. Director Buzek, you're recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. After the Operations and Customer Service Committee
meeting, a question arose as to whether I should have recused myself from this in the committee
meeting. I had of course checked our policies, procedures, and ethics rulings to determine I didn't
have a conflict and confirmed that with our General Manager. But nonetheless, since a question
has arisen, I will, in an abundance of caution, recuse myself on this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for announcing that so that the body is appropriately
advised. Director Whitmore, you are recognized.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also will be recusing myself once again due to my
service on Smart Commute Metro North Board of Directors. It's not appropriate that I vote on
this matter. So thank you for your time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. Your recusal is also noted for the
record. Madam Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am in support of this project for a
couple of reasons. One is transportation demand management in a geographic desert. And quite
frankly, a lot of the folks who will be getting these services are folks that have been gentrified
from the inner city and have to come a longer way to work into the community. So this is an
actual support to really get folks to and from work who don't have that opportunity.
I've looked at this process. I agree, FlexRides, you look at all of that. But we are in such
desperate need of the outlying areas to have a viable service that's really going to support our
workers who have to come in such long distances. Thank you, sir.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Second Vice Chair. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: First of all, what she said. Secondly, I personally believe, from what I see,
that we need to go to more of this type of service. Mobility on demand is the way of the future.
The service is well done, although I'm not real sure I'm thrilled that RTD is continuing to give
our service to DRCOG. But that's OK. If it gets done right and well with smaller vehicles and a
smaller service area, then mobility on demand is the way of the future. So I will be in support.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Director Lubow, you are
recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I live up there, but I'm not going to recuse myself. So I am
definitely in support of this because there is not good transit up there. There's nothing. And when
that happens, when there is not the kind of density that would warrant the route, the typical route,
then FlexRide is the only valid alternative, or one of the few alternatives.
And equity has to be looked at, and not just amount of subsidies, if there's nothing up there and
these people are paying taxes. I mean, I know it's my old refrain, but why not give-- people
deserve something. And the people in this area have put together a really good grant. It's mostly
funded not by RTD. And it's definitely needed. So I'll vote for this twice if I could, but I
probably won't be able to. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, DIrector Lubow. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. We have a good working relationship with DRCOG and with
a lot of agencies around. To walk away from $1.6 million in funding, grant funding, doesn't seem
to be very smart to me. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I agree. So I hear you, Director Menten, when you say
that. But when we talk about-- like Director Rivera-Malpiede, we talk about those who have
been displaced from our city centers, this is a good opportunity for us to talk about the
suburbanization of poverty and how we can be sure that we're serving those folks who have been
displaced from our city centers. And so I am in support of this, and I also just think it's a great
deal. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Any further discussion on this
resolution? All right. Noting that Directors Buzek and Whitmore have voluntarily recused
themselves from the discussion, we turn to Director Williams as the movant and Director RiveraMalpiede as the second to vote, and then the rest of us will vote.
By a vote of 10 in favor and two opposed. Excuse me. And we're showing one abstention. That's
not really. It's a no vote. I mean, in any event, Directors Buzek, Whitmore, and Folska were not

participating because Buzek and Whitmore recused themselves. Directors Menten and Mihalik
voted no. And the other Directors, specifically 10, voted yes. The motion therefore passes.
That concludes the recommended action items that we have before us this evening. So our next
agenda item is old business. Does any director have any old business to bring forward before the
body at this time? Seeing none, then relative to new business, we will note that there are several
items of new business as indicated under agenda item XIV in our agenda. And I'll try to get
through those first. And then-- well, let's respond to others who wish to speak first. Director
Lubow, new business.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much, Chair. I just wanted to comment on that the Board
received printed copies of complaints from two people, or comments, anyway. And they both
seemed valuable to me, and I wanted to make sure they did not get lost.
One from Dr. Chamberlain, and he raised an interesting point that apparently RTD will no longer
tolerate non-ADA devices on ramps or in the service area of the train. And he indicates that that's
going to make it impossible for him to keep riding because he has a bad back and he needs to be
able to use the ramp. And he asked the reasonable question about shouldn't there be exceptions to
this for those who need it. So I would appreciate it if we would hear about a response to that.
And there's one more. Jamie Lewis raised very interesting point. He's basically saying, because
he's disabled, that if you're going to cut routes, do it very, very carefully because it really affects
these people. And he suggests that we make sure before we do that, we do a review of our
current assets, buildings, and reserves. And I thought, well, that's a clever idea. So I'm wondering
if we couldn't do that and make sure that there is nothing there in terms of money that we could
use.
But he also raises a very interesting point, which I'm sure is wish fulfillment, but that we could
use our assets to create units for our drivers to live in with their families. I thought that was a
grand idea but probably impossible. But I would appreciate it if we could get a response to both
of these. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. I will call upon General Manager to
address this. I will note that the Chair has already reached out to General Counsel and Associate
General Counsel and the General Manager regarding this discussion of prohibition of anything
other than ADA-approved devices on the ramps because I'm, as you are, troubled by that. But
General Manager, your comments, please.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So regarding the use of the ramps, we have various
settlements with different communities that we need to review. And so I'll initiate looking at
those again with our General Counsel and our Operations team. And I will just point out that not
knowing exactly what transpired, not knowing exactly what our operator said and exactly-- I
mean, I've read the information that was submitted to us.
But the reason that we try to limit the activity on the ramps is so that that area is prioritized, not
just the ramp, but once people board, that the area on board the train is prioritized for disabled

community. And so there's a lot of surrounding things around this. So we will review those
documents again and provide a summary to the Board regarding that.
And then on the second issue, I've actually had a discussion with the gentleman that submitted
that information, and I agree there's some interesting ideas there. And that's what I'll say for now.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow and General Manager. Madam
Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I don't know if this is the appropriate
place to discuss this, so you can educate me if it is not. I read the proposed outreach paper
provided by the General Manager on the outreach. I think it's wonderful. There's one piece
missing that I think is crucial, and that is our culture.
And one of the things that I've read consistently is that people are leaving because they feel
disrespected. And so I want to once again request that perhaps there be some training done for
our mid-level managers, whoever it is that is working directly with our on the ground personnel,
to understand how you work with diverse populations and different kinds of things like that.
I think it's crucial for us as we move forward. That seems to be the base for me in terms of what's
happening with drivers leaving. And not just drivers, mechanics and everybody else. So I would
respectfully ask that that be included in the plan. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. I'm sure the general
manager will take that to heart. Director Williams, you are recognized
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd like to comment on both of the letters that
Director Lubow brought up. There have been a couple of meetings on this subject with some of
the staff. And I believe, unless I'm mistaken, that they did ask for some direction from the FTA
and got some very stringent responses that said that the high blocks are designed only for ADA
use.
I happen to object. I think that there are restrooms that are mandated in buildings to be ADA
compliant. But at no place does that restroom say only for ADA use. I frequently use them, the
concept being that accommodations that are made under ADA regulations indicate that others
who do not need those requirements yield. The key word is that they yield those to people who
do have them.
However, I'm fairly sure that we did get a response from the FTA that spoke very strictly
otherwise. So it's an issue very near and dear to my daytime job. I would like to see it resolved in
the best interest of moms with strollers, older gentleman with walkers, et cetera, in addition,
because my belief is that if you make things ADA compliant and accessible, then they need to be
accessible for everyone. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your comments on that, and we're
going to be coming back to you later for a separate new business item. Director Lewis, you are
recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to echo and elevate what Director RiveraMalpiede has said. I think the data has shown us that we actually don't have a problem recruiting
operators, and we absolutely have a problem retaining operators. And I think from Director
Malpiede's tours with the operators, I'm sure she's heard a lot from operators about what are
some things that we can do to improve the culture within this agency and get folks to be able to
stay.
One of the things that requested the last time we had this discussion was the exit survey, so what
are folks saying when they are leaving the agency, the reasons why they're leaving, and can that
be a starting point, at the very least, for us to maybe be able to address some of those items.
Another concern that I had in relation to that report is it says is a timeline. It's November 1
through November 15. I don't know if that's sufficient time to be able to truly and meaningfully
engage operators, riders, stakeholders, et cetera. And so I think we might want to be very specific
about what we are going out to do when we're doing that because November 1 is tomorrow. And
I haven't seen a calendar, a date, a meeting, an event. So I just wanted to underscore that and
raise that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Director Williams, are you on to the
other new business item that you were going to report on? All right. You are recognized for that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. In contrast to some of the things we've been
talking about, I also into the employee awards today. And I was very struck by the fact that there
are a number of people in our industry, in our agency, who work really, really hard, who are
very, very proud of their jobs. There were a number of people there that I've occasion to work
with personally. Some of the people who worked on the LiVE program, some of the people who
worked on our fair media, some of the guys who, in years past, had won some of the same
awards that we gave out tonight and then were promoted out of their ability to compete and have
just gone on to do wonderful things. They're working with youth. They're teaching first aid.
I just have a whole paper here full of notes that I made of RTD employees who are happy here.
We're happy with them, they're happy in their jobs. And so I know that a lot of time now we hear
not good things, and we're kind of all in upheaval, but there were some really, really great people
at that meeting this morning. And I was very proud to be a part of this agency. So I wanted to
share that with everybody.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Is there any other new business to come
before us before we proceed with the two items that we actually listed on the agenda that we
would like to bring to your attention at this time.
All right. Then the first item that is before you is a--and it's agenda item XIV A. It is a draft of a
resolution that would affect Board member-related budget allocations in the 2020 Board Office

budget. This is an information only item. It is socialized to you now following our two prior
discussions of this matter. We discussed it briefly in the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee. Then we discussed it at length in the Executive Committee last week. We will have
three more discussions to follow, at least. That means that there will have been a minimum of six
opportunities for discussion of this matter.
The Draft Board Expense Reduction Resolution would read: It is recommended by the Executive
committee of the RTD Board of Directors that the Board approve a motion to adopt the attached
resolution number blank series of 2019 concerning a temporary reduction of certain Board Office
budget lines related to Director travel and the allocation of certain meeting expenses to Directors'
local expense budgets. The specific language is presented in your Board materials.
Once again, this will be discussed at the Tuesday, November 12 Financial Administration and
Audit Committee meeting. You can also, if you'd like to make some observations tonight, it is
brought up, as I said. There are six opportunities to talk about this. This is one of them. Please
feel free to provide comments now.
But it's given to you in plenty of advance time so that you'll have an opportunity to consider it
and have a meaningful discussion during that Finance Committee meeting. So Director Williams,
if you'd like to speak to the Draft Board Expense Reduction Resolution.
KATE WILLIAMS: I would. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I don't have a problem with the concept
of the Board of DIrectors reducing their expenses. I think that everybody here donates a fair
amount of time. We are not paid employees. And I think that if we're willing to give a reduction
in what funding we get, I'd like to see the Senior Leadership Team do the same. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And if I may, before recognizing Director Lubow, ask General
Manager if he'd like to respond to that comment.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So every department has been given targets on budget
reductions. They've also been directed to reduce travel expenses as well. And so that process is
underway as we continue to work on the 2020 budget.
And just so the Board knows that, similar to the Board Office policy, every piece of travel comes
to the General Manager for review and approval. So in 2020, I'm actually going to put some
additional requests on the departments for their requests around travel and justification. So that's
all I have on that. But I just wanted the Board to know that we've already taken those measures.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I think that helps to have some of that. And we can have further
discussion on that to expand upon these points, also, at the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting on November 12. Director Lubow. Oh, I'm sorry. General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, if you'll indulge me a moment, that doesn't apply to SLT. It
applies to all the staff. Travel's being reduced across the board.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, it's not just SLT. It's all staff. Right.

KATE WILLIAMS: I didn't mean just them.
DOUG TISDALE: Please, Director Williams. You wish to respond?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. I didn't mean just those nine people or 10 people. I meant down
in-- understand. Shake out down the line. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Lubow, you're recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair, I just had a informational question. I didn't really understand
the third point about a debit of a certain amount.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's an excellent question. I'll try to give you my best
understanding of it. And then again, we'll discuss this further on November 12. That is, that a
charge would be made against your expense, local expense account, of, for example, $15 per
meal that you actually attend and partake in rather than having a cash exchange.
We won't do that. But we would just debit your account. Rather than a credit to your account
increasing the amount, it would be a debit reducing the amount of your expense reimbursement
budget. So in effect, you'd be paying $15 for each meal. You wouldn't pay cash. But you would
have that charged to your account.
JUDY LUBOW: I would've never guessed that from the way this was written.
DOUG TISDALE: Or $10.00.
JUDY LUBOW: It was a mystery item.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. I mean, for clarity, it's apparently $10.00. I've got all kinds of different
proposals we've discussed. $10.00. And obviously, if you weren't there and don't eat it, you don't
get charged it. But it's a way of trying to balance some of these things out and to cover the
shortfall.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: All right.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I appreciate this philosophically. I think this way in
which it's been presented to us is arbitrary. I'm not sure I understand how we got to these three
discussion items.

The third one, I agree with you, Director Lubow, is very vague. It lacks specificity. I'm not sure
how we've gotten to equity with this, or if equity exists in this. It just seems like a thing when we
should be talking about the overall budget and reduction of overall expenses, and not one small
piece of the budget. It's also pennies in comparison to what we need to find in the budget that we
have overall.
I am curious, General Manager Genova, what the percentage of travel reduction will be for staff.
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager, if you'd care to respond, you may.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. I've directed them to reduce travel to trips that they feel are necessary
for whatever commitments we've made or that might be necessary for business. I've asked each
department head or Assistant General Manager to give me a list of their proposed travel for my
review before we include it in the 2020 budget.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate you sharing that. I think it would have been beneficial for me-I'll speak for myself. I won't speak for any other directors-- for the Directors to be asked a similar
question because we may have come up with other things, not this. I think with the travel in
general, one of the things, when we went to different conferences, we learn about best practices,
what folks are doing in other agencies, and it gives us an opportunity to connect. And so this
seems very arbitrary without our input, or even taking the time to ask us where we might make
some cuts in the larger scale of things, not just in this individual thing. That's one.
I would also be in support of us not catering on Tuesdays. And if that were something that was
presented to me, I would be in support of that. But this just seems arbitrary. It doesn't seem very
well thought out. It's not connected to a larger plan. And quite frankly, it's disappointing.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Director Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would have to agree with Director Lewis. I'd like to
see the list of staff reductions before we have to end up voting on this as well. I think it should all
be brought to us together so we can see, and ensure that we're all being asked to take one for the
team, that everyone's taking one for the team. And I said it before. This just looks symbolic to
me and of no effect, and kind of feeble. Thanks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, this is Heather. Can I speak for a minute?
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely, Chief Financial Officer. You may speak.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I just wanted to clarify. We have asked every administrative office
to take a 10% reduction. That included the Board Office. This amount that you're reducing is not
close to the 10% reduction that the other areas are taking. So I just wanted to mention that. When
you asked what the methodology was, we asked all administrative budgets to take a 10%
reduction. This is less than that 10% reduction.

So we're making that number up elsewhere, and if you choose to do nothing, we will have to
make that number up elsewhere. So I just want to clarify the methodology-- not where it comes
from. I don't care where you take it from-- but it is the 10% that everyone else is being asked to
reduce from their budgets.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. I appreciate the clarification. And I didn't see that in here.
Would've been nice to have the information like that. Kind of like the Medal of Honor thing.
Let's get all the information we can have to have informed comments and discussion. Thank you.
That's all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think it's fair to say that the full discussion is intended to be held on
November 12. And we hope that everyone will have full information. But we wanted so that
people would have the opportunity to start framing questions, such as Director Buzek has raised,
to see those and recognize that there was about a 30-minute discussion on this point in the
Executive Committee last Thursday. And everyone on the Board was invited to attend that
meeting of the Executive Committee for a 30-minute discussion where many of these questions
were addressed and were brought forward.
And the various options that Ms. McManus, as our executive manager, painstakingly put
together were presented to the Executive Committee for initial consideration. The Executive
Committee made this determination as the first cut to present to the Board. And then we'll
discuss, obviously, on November 12, how that might be tweaked or adjusted.
VINCE BUZEK: I appreciate that. And a lot of us here are unable to attend Executive
Committee meetings, even though we are invited. And when staff gets defensive about things
that are being said, I'm sorry, but I have to point out that I don't have the information is the only
reason I asked the question. I mean, I'm not trying to be-- yeah. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I did participate in this last Thursday, so was lucky to be
able to chime in for, what, our two-hour overall whole thing? It was fun.
DOUG TISDALE: Two and 1/2 hours.
NATALIE MENTEN: Two and 1/2 hours. It was fun, yeah. One of the items that I brought up
during that meeting that I've been concerned about for a long time, and is not of humongous-- it's
not going to save the world-- but when we are talking about the nitty gritty here, about cutting
expenses on doing outreach and the things that we do as, really, public servants. We not going to
retire off doing this job, right?
We have instructed, in the past, Civil Rights to do outreach. And what that has resulted in, in
some cases, is when you get those invites that say would you like to RSVP for a dinner that's $85
to $100 or more for a plate of food, the reason that we spend that taxpayer money on that is what
I've been told in the past, is because we told civil rights to do some outreach.

I would like to, for 2020, present that we eliminate that. When we're paying $1,000 for a table of
10 to go to a chamber event, that's not an appropriate way for us to spend our taxpayers' money.
So I would hope that we could cut that for the year 2020. Again, it's not huge.
Another item-- but I think, for somebody who's always bargain shopping, there is no way in hell
that I have spent $85 on a dinner for myself ever, ever. OK? So all right.
DOUG TISDALE: That's credible, Director.
NATALIE MENTEN: I know. I know. Because I was going to tell you, you know, if we get
down to it, I'll be bringing the deviled eggs because everybody asks for them. And I'll do chili or
tacos. You get your choice, like every other, all right? So you let me know what you want on
that.
But one other item that does bother me, and I brought it up at our last Government Affairs
Committee meeting, is our contract with CRL. CRL Roger Sherman is our local government
liaison. And taxpayers, through us, through our authority, pay that group $8,500 a month. And I
don't know really what they do. Roger goes to the Metro Mayors Caucus. Well, I already heard
Dave's going to the Metro Mayors Caucus. I don't know what good that really does. Is that worth
$8,500 a month? My understanding is he's at some of the Citizen Advisory Committee meetings.
I'd like to see staff run the Citizen Advisory Committee meetings.
Why do I bring this up? Because you're going to be presented with his contract probably next
month. $8,500 a month. And if you'll recall, at last Government Affairs Committee meeting, I
asked for the time log. I don't think I've gotten it yet. What do they do? They're going out and
they're picking between winners and losers on city council races? That's not what I think we
should be paying him to do.
So that right there, those savings, if we add in the chamber events, the $100 a plate dinner and
Roger's contract at $102,000 a year, or whatever it's going to be increased to, that's a substantial
amount of money that we can put in to actual rubber on the road one way or another. Maybe that
means literally buying tires. But I think it would be better money spent than what we're doing
right now.
As for the proposal, I chimed in. Thank you for being very generous with time on the phone. I
certainly didn't spend as much time as I'm doing tonight. But I think it's better to not affect our
local outreach. And that is what this ended up resulting in. I do think it's quirky that we're being
charged for dinners. And if we've got to bring PB&J or deviled eggs and chili or lasagna. Kate,
what do you bring in, you know? I'm OK with it.
But thank you for letting me share two things that have irked me for a long time as to how we
spend taxpayer money. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, DIrector. And just for the sake of the record, I know you know
this, but some of the items that you mentioned, at least, are now part of the Board Office budget.
And the Chief Financial Officer was advised there was a 10% across the Board request for

budget cuts. Ms. McManus has done miraculous things in trying to take away the sting from the
individual Directors as much as possible. And looking at this, she was left with a final number to
try to solve for. The Executive Committee presents this as its first cut for further discussion on
November 12 relative to a solution.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I'm not arguing that. I'm looking at the agency as a whole. I'm really
not getting down into the weeds, just the Board. So I apologize for stepping outside. But to me, I
think the agency as a whole will benefit from those other two items that I mentioned.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Madam Second Vice Chair, you're recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think it's really kind of interesting that
the next three speakers are the Executive Committee. Since we all sat in that meeting for two and
1/2 hours, I just want to say that this is the first wave of showing this to the Board. As the
Executive Committee, our charge is to bring things to you guys and then talk to you to see what
you think.
I really looked at this. And when I heard that 10% across the board, and it was presented to take
a look at what we're doing, I thought it was reasonable for us to do the $10 or a potluck. Either
way, you know, I think that that's fine.
In terms of travel, you know, I thought going to conferences is extraordinarily beneficial. But for
one year, maybe we could do a little different, and maybe go to just one, and then pick up
education through webinars and stuff just for one year as a commitment to try and bring balance
to the budget.
I also thought about that as we looked at the Civil Rights and all the dinners that we go to, for
one year, taking a hiatus. I know that for many of these dinners, it is difficult to fill the table. But
even more than that, just for one year, to ask our communities to note that we are partners. We
support them. But could they support us one year by allowing us to take a break just so that we
could get our finances in order, which is our fudicial responsibility as elected officials.
So I really went through this. I thought about it. And I thought this was a good first pass through
for everybody to take a look at. But clearly did not think that everybody would sign off on it. But
I do think collectively, this is our opportunity to show the community that we're going to dig in,
too, and do what we need to do to help balance this budget. Even though it's just a small amount,
I think it's the spirit of it. So I just wanted to say that to my fellow colleagues. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Second Vice Chair. Madam Treasurer, you are
recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: I agree, and Director Rivera-Malpiede said it all really well. I think we have
to be part of this. And true, we don't get paid much, but that's kind of what we ran for. But I
would say if there is some way to be flexible regarding not just within the local to travel account,
but also between accounts, I am fortunate to live close to a train. I could take the train rather than

drive to most of the things we do. But that's not an option for some other Directors, who are
much farther outlying and don't have the options that I have.
So I just hope that in some way, we can look at the 10% being-- or whatever the percentage is
we're reducing-- being across the board collectively, as Angie said, as opposed to in each
individual's case, to allow some other people who may need some additional for the travel or for
the local meetings, to take advantage of my good fortune in living so close, not using so much,
not having the ability to travel to certain things.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. Mr. Secretary, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Excuse me. Thank you. So I support the recommendation, I guess, in
theory. I'm sure it's subject to change, like everything is. My three observations are that this has
been done before. When I was on the Board, I believe when I was first appointed to the Board,
the Board was under a similar reduction in budget. Excuse me. So even though as small as the
reduction might be, it's still an effort. It still shows something, that we're all in this together and
that we're making some effort.
The local and travel budgets are transferable. So it's $10,000, what we have now. So it's really
only being reduced by $2,000 between the two budgets. So I don't think that will affect me. I
travel a lot because I'm on APTA's board and I participate in Leadership APTA. But I'm willing
to do whatever and pay out of my pocket, or get a roommate for one of the conferences if I have
to. I've done that before also.
And I think that this recommendation is just the first swing at it. We know we didn't get
everybody's input at the Executive Committee meeting, so there's still plenty of opportunity for
discussion and exploration of other options. But in principle, I think we should do something. I
made a motion last year, totally out of order. But I made the motion that something like this
should have been done back then.
I think we're paid very generously compared to other transit agency boards around the country. I
can only think of two, New York and Salt Lake City, where the board members get more. Most
of them have some type of restriction on how that payment is earned, meaning that the board
members have to show up for a meeting in order to get some payment. And we don't have that
restriction on us. It was just in 2009 when the state legislature increased the salary to $1,000 a
month from $300 a month.
So as far as I'm concerned, it's mostly all gravy, especially compared to other board members. So
I'm willing to support these, and I'm also very willing to listen to other options. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I hope that Director Mihalik certainly
appreciates that we're getting all of these points made and discussion held tonight so that the
Finance Administration and Audit committee won't have to hear these same points made on
Tuesday, November 12 because they're being fully aired this evening. So we're just trying to
streamline Director Mihalik's meeting on the 12th.

All right. Madam First Vice Chair, you're recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I agree that we do need to have some skin in the
game, and that this is just a first pass. But I think it was emphasized in the Executive Committee
meeting that our first obligation is to our local constituents. And that's why the first proposal was
to keep that budget whole and reduce the out of town travel.
And for me personally, that was a tough one because I have a rather large district without any
transit service to be able to get around to my constituents. And I do exhaust that local budget. So
I just wanted to say I appreciate that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam First Vice Chair. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd like to point out that many times events will
offer a nonprofit rate and donate tickets. And I think that if we did the right kind of publicity
around the fact that we could no longer afford-- we'd like to participate, we'd like to be involved,
we'd like to know those organizations, but that we could not afford to pay for a ticket-- that in
some cases, they would donate us a couple of tickets. I mean, we probably wouldn't be able to
have a table of 10. But that is-- I know we're looking at little bitty bites of the apple, but that's
just a thought.
And the other thing I want to know. The 10% reduction in all departments, does that includes
salaries, or are we simply talking travel?
DAVE GENOVA: It's not salary. But it's a target for every department for whatever. The
department has the flexibility to determine where that can be done with the least amount of
impact to delivering our services.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So it's in the department's overall budget. But can or cannot include
salaries at their option?
DAVE GENOVA: It's an option. They weren't directed to do any salary reduction.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I just wanted clarification on that. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: It's an option. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just two things quickly. I also agree generally with this, and
open to tweaking. I think that Jeff Walker made a good point that the local and travel budgets are
transferable and cover each other. So really it's kind of like, what's the chunk, and leave that to
Executive Committee to talk about.
I appreciate the statements about the-- I guess the Civil Rights things. I guess as head of
communications and government relations, I think we do have to remember that the partnering
with people to support their events-- and I'm not saying we shouldn't look at doing some cuts

because I think there could be this year-- but it is important to support a lot of the organizations
that are supporting what we do. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis, one more bite.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I'd like to just formally request that maybe we get an dollar
amount for the money that we spend on catering. That way we have actual numbers and
recommendations that we can use as we're making this decision. And ask that we flesh this out,
similar with other options, with other scenarios, and not just do three, because I think there's
opportunity in this, or going to this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that observation. The Executive Committee did have,
essentially, a worksheet chart of various options that were available. I did not see that in part of
the Board report here for this.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It was sent to all Directors when I sent out the information separately.
DOUG TISDALE: That's right. There was a separate email to all the directors, and it included
that breakdown of how these dollars were arrived at and what the options were.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, Director Lewis is correct. There wasn't any dollar amount for
catering in that. We do have that information. And I also would like to comment on Director
Catlin and Director Cook's comments. So the Board Office realizes that not all directors live
close to the center city. Not all are able to use mass transit to get to work. And we have a special
account that anything over 30 miles in mileage that is submitted comes out of an account from
the Board Office and is not charged against each director. So everybody is equitable in how their
local expenses are dealt with in terms of commuting back and forth to meetings and social
events.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that clarification and amplification. And I think it's
fair to say some Directors did not know that, and it always helps to shine a light on it and get the
information out. Director Whitmore, you are recognized, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: I will do my best to be brief. I would like to commend the Executive
Committee for the start. This is not easy work, and it's minor in budgetary nature, but it's very
symbolic, as one of the other Board members had mentioned. And I think we do need to have
skin in the game. I appreciate the flexibility that the Board Office has exhibited, and examples
were given by Director Walker and Cook and Catlin.
So I appreciate that. I just do think that at the fundamental core is the ability to do our outreach,
and with Reimagine and the other things that we're looking at in the near future, we need to have
the ability to reach out to the locals.
As far as the out-of-state travel, it's too bad it has to be cut. I've been to one out of state event. It
was tremendous, and I think it's valuable, especially for new Directors. It's valuable for our
influence, whether it's Mr. Genova or Director Walker or Director Tisdale serving on those

prestigious posts. And they bring a lot back. But I think that should be first item cut, and worry
more about the local.
And I'm not all that fond of potlucks. I'm a poor cook and have no time to prepare prior to my
arrival here. So if Director Menten will take my spot in the rotation, then I would be willing to
consider that.
[INTERPOSED VOICES]
TROY WHITMORE: That's what I'm here for.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. Any other discussion on this
informational socialized number that will come back for full discussion on Tuesday, November
the 12th, now having spent half an hour on this discussion. Any others?
All right. Let me turn to the update from the Ad Hoc Committee on Certain Litigations. The Ad
Hoc Committee on Certain Litigations, comprised of First Vice Chair Catlin and me, convened a
meeting with our general counsel Rolf Asphaug last Tuesday, October 22. A portion of that
meeting was conducted while the committee was seated in executive session. But I would take
this time now to share with you the information and elements that were discussed that were not
confidential and that occurred in our open meeting.
Those matters are relative to the Denver Transit Partners litigation. The discovery is proceeding
now, including the completion of a data program that's used for project management relative to
analysis of all documents. Depositions were scheduled to commence as of October 29 and will
continue through December 2, including Mr. John Thompson, who was here earlier this evening,
and Mr. Dave Genova.
There is a dispute resolution hearing-- actually, it's called a mediation, dispute resolution
mediation process, that will occur in Northern California on December 10 and 11. Relative to the
RRP litigation at the opening of the case, the RRP parties dismissed all of their claims having to
do with any issues other than delay.
There was a three-day arbitration held before a panel of arbiters. The RRP claim remaining was
still within that $8 million cap that we have discussed previously. The arbitrators said that their
decision was to be issued by November 20. And we can state in open session for the record that
the fees to date relative to these two matters remain within the parameters and the constraints of
fee estimates that were previously disclosed to this Board and discussed by us, and that applies to
both cases.
And we have the intention of having an executive session, hopefully brief, following this
discussion. Are there any questions on this committee relative to the open session discussion?
Director Lewis, you are recognized.

SHONTEL LEWIS: At one of our Board meetings, our committee meetings previously, we
agreed that when we had updates, that we would provide those in writing for those who learn and
take in information differently. And so I wondered if you had these updates in writing.
DOUG TISDALE: I don't believe we have a written memo on this yet. But this will be
transcribed, and that's in writing.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So in the future, can we get these things in writing, because that's how I
process information, is to see it written and not orally.
DOUG TISDALE: Understand. First Vice Chair would like to comment on that.
PEGGY CATLIN: The Ad Hoc Committee meetings were recorded. And so we can get the
information.
BARBARA MCMANUS: All of them are available.
PEGGY CATLIN: And so we can get that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate the audio. What I'm asking for is something written.
DOUG TISDALE: The request is noted. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. This will be a little bit in the same line. So in digging through
a lot of public records in my life outside of RTD, when you state that we are within the dollar
figures of what was approved by the Board, could you put those on the record right now so
they'll be right in the transcript text?
DOUG TISDALE: That's not what I said. What I said was within the parameters and the
constraints of fee estimates that were previously discussed with the Board. I'm sorry, disclosed to
the Board and discussed by us. So that's what I said.
NATALIE MENTEN: Can we get those dollar figures stated? I just want to-- same way. I don't
want to have to have somebody in the public go oh, OK, I gotta look back somewhere. And even
myself. So can you put it?
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So counsel, you may respond.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: So the specific amounts spent and what they're spent on, so long as
litigation is pending, is privileged. And we can talk more specifically about that in executive
session if you'd like.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. But the dollar amounts that we approved within a range were public
record.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes. The budget.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So that's what I'm wanting to get on the record.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: What was previously approved by the Board?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: That's already on record. We'll go back. We're not your file cabinet here
tonight. We'll come back to it and we'll disclose it again. But I'm not going to ask people to do
memory contests tonight unless you've got it handy.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: I'm sorry. I don't. I wasn't prepared for that.
DOUG TISDALE: That's my point. But we can have the discussion in executive session.
NATALIE MENTEN: This is for the public. I also find it very offensive that-- OK. I'll chill here
for a moment. But this is for the public's benefit, where they don't have to go back through
months and months blindly to reference something. We're talking about a lot of money. We've
talked about money all night, haven't we? So when you are able to do it. But no, this is for public
record is what I am going after.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll verify that with you. We just don't have the exact figure tonight, and we
don't want to put a number out that may not be accurate.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Any further questions on the open session discussion of the Ad Hoc
Committee on Certain Litigations?
All right. Then hearing none, is there any other new business to come before the Board? Then we
will now ask for a motion to continue into executive session for the purpose of holding a
conference with legal counsel on the DTP and the RRP litigation matters pursuant to Colorado
Revised Statutes Section 42-6-402 (4) (b).
And that's conferences with an attorney for the local body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions, and also for addressing as may be necessary negotiations and
instructing negotiators pursuant to the relevant statute. Is there a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion and I have a second. I have a motion from Director
Williams and second from Director Whitmore. Is there any discussion on the motion to move
into executive session? Hearing none, all those in favor indicate by saying aye. Aye. Are there
any opposed? There are none. The record will reflect that there is a unanimous approval of the
executive session which, again, we hope to keep brief.

I note-- I'm sorry. Again, please? We will, yes. Yes. I want to get some procedural stuff done so
we can let the public go, and then we will have a break.
I note for the sake of the record, and for the benefit of the public and for the benefit of the Board,
that immediately upon the conclusion of the executive session, we will adjourn from the Board
meeting and we will not address any additional Board business matters this evening. So you
won't be missing anything. The meeting then will now stand adjourned for a period of five
minutes, when we will reconvene in executive session.
[AUDIO OUT]

