Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
October 23, 2014 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

October Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - October 28, 2014
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Carl Hall – Light Rail Operator – 20 years
Paul Deen Koogle – Property Control Analyst – 25 years
William Raymer – Bus Operator – 21 years
Kenneth Waller – Bus Operator – 29 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed Route Operator Winners
1st Place – John Johnson
2nd Place – Michael Duran
3rd Place – Paul Gaschler

RTD Fixed-Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Platte: Jon Mitchell, Ernesto Perez, Tim Wallace
RTD Service and Cleaning Winner
1st Place: Platte – Mark Buyalski
Private Contractor Fixed Route Operators Winners
1st Place – Abniger Ek Chan – First Transit Denver
2nd Place – Jose Ek Chan – First Transit Denver
3rd Place – Patrick Rhea – TransDenver
Private Contractor Team Maintenance
1st Place: First Transit Commerce City: Dominick Hastings, Lance Newcomb, Fred
Musisi
Paratransit Operator Winners
1st Place – Miguel Robles – MV Transportation
2nd Place – Rick Isbell – VIA Nobility
3rd Place – Janie Meadows – Greely Transit
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Rodney Montana
2nd Place – Christina Romero
3rd Place – Bryan Coy
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Randall Lovegrove
2nd Place – Andre Leigh
3rd Place – Todd Woodward
Special Recognition – Snow-plow Roadeo
Single-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Chip Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
2nd Place – David Waite and Reed Sorenson
3rd Place – John Prather and David Johnson
Tandem-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Bob Alford and Leo Dowd

2nd Place – Pat Ortega and Guy Pierce
3rd Place – Lewis Dorrance and James Mohan
V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 16, 2014

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Utility Easement for South Weld Metropolitan District for City of Dacono and
St. Vrain Sanitation District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive utility easement over 3,769 square
feet (0.086 acres, more or less) on the Boulder Branch segment of the Boulder
Industrial Lead in the SE¼ Section 14, Township 1 North, Range 68 West, City of
Dacono, County of Weld, State of Colorado.
B.

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
approve the implementation of the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate
Burden Policy.

C.

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract with Lamar
Advertising of Denver for the three year period January 1, 2015 through December
31, 2017 with a two year option for 2018 and 2019. Under the terms of the
recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of
$4.0 million in 2015, $4.1 million in 2016 and $4.2 million in 2017 or 2) seventy
percent of net sales, whichever is greater.
XII.

Recommended Action
D.

Free Rides for Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free
rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be
extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2014 to December
31, 2015. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal
impact on RTD.
E.

January 2015 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 2015 Service Change package as revised
and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately
$969,000 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
F.

Approval of Budget Transfer for North Metro Sidings

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the transfer of $16 million from FasTracks Railroad Right of
Way budget to a project to construct additional track sidings (see attached) on the
North Metro Rail Line (NMRL). These sidings will improve system reliability on the
entire RTD commuter rail network. They provide for a more robust, reliable
operation on the current North Metro segment to 124th Avenue and facilitate the
future construction of the remaining segment to 162nd Avenue. Funding for the
FasTracks Railroad Right of Way Budget is included in the 2014 Amended Budget
for the FasTracks capital program.
G.

Request for Increase to ACS Smart Contract

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to increase
the Xerox Transport Solutions contract not-to-exceed amount by $2,349,912 to a
new contract amount not to exceed $19,731,382.

H.

2015 Salaried Benefit Plans

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the 2015 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorize
the General Manager or his designee to enter into agreements with the Insurance
Carriers.
I.
Certification of the 2015 contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2015 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’
Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly
benefit at retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors
certifies a 2015 contribution to the Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan
Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each
year of employment, at a percent of each participant’s eligible compensation.
J.

Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approves and adopts the 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2014

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 2, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

Utility Easement for South Weld Metropolitan
District for City of Dacono and St. Vrain
Sanitation District

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive
utility easement over 3,769 square feet (0.086 acres, more or less) on the Boulder Branch segment of
the Boulder Industrial Lead in the SE¼ Section 14, Township 1 North, Range 68 West, City of Dacono,
County of Weld, State of Colorado.
BACKGROUND
This action addresses the 2015 goal of fiscal sustainability in leveraging RTD assets. In 2009, RTD
acquired the railroad track and land known as the Boulder Industrial Lead (BIL) in the counties of Adams,
Boulder, Broomfield and Weld. The railroad corridor is 32.7 miles in length and an average width of 161
feet. The BIL is divided into two segments: the North Metro Line and the Boulder Branch. The North
Metro line extends from Colorado Blvd at East 64th Avenue in Commerce City, Adams County,
northward to 164th Avenue just east of I-25 in unincorporated Weld County. The Boulder Branch
extends from 164th Avenue just east of I-25, Weld County, westward 17.7 miles to Boulder’s Valmont
Power Station.
In February 2014, RTD granted two Licenses on the BIL Boulder Branch to Ranchview Investment Co,
for consideration of a one-time License fee of $2,500 per License, to construct a water line and a
sanitary sewer pipeline crossing the railroad right-of-way under the track in Weld County Road 8 to serve
the Ranchview Subdivision adjacent to CR 8, City of Dacono. By the terms of a Subdivision Agreement
between Ranchview Investment Co and the City of Dacono to govern the development, the City of
Dacono and the St. Vrain Sanitation District will undertake ownership and maintenance of the water line
and sewer line, respectively, upon completion and approval of the utilities. Two additional License
Agreements between RTD and the City of Dacono and St. Vrain Sanitation District were concurrently
executed to become effective upon final approval and acceptance of the utilities at which time the
License Agreements with Ranchview Investment Co will terminate.
DISCUSSION
The City of Dacono and the St. Vrain Sanitation District are concerned with License Agreements that are
revocable and terminable and initially sought a permanent interest in the property to ensure the
continued use and operation of the pipelines; however, with time constraints of the subdivision
development, they agreed to execute the Licenses to facilitate the installations while continuing to
pursue an easement.
The 2009 appraisal of the BIL rail corridor, conducted by Brad A. Weiman, MAI, and John P. Baker, MAI,
of Integra Realty Resources, further divided the North Metro Line and the Boulder Branch into land use
segments for valuation. Segments 1 through 14 of the North Metro Line that are highly developed and
urban ranged in value from $1.65 to $19.30 per square foot. Segments 15 through 21 of the Boulder

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.A

Branch, with rural locations and no immediate demand for rail development, ranged in value from $0.75
to $6.00 per square foot. The requested easement area is located in Segment 15 of the Boulder Branch
that was valued at $1.50 per square foot.
South Weld Metropolitan District proposes a value based on 50% of the fee value of $1.50 per square
foot for the subsurface utility easement with an escalator of 10% or $3,100 for the 3,769 square foot
easement area.
RTD shall retain all rights in and usage of the property as necessary to ensure RTD’s use for mass
transportation system purposes. The utilities are subject to modification or relocation whenever RTD
finds it necessary or desirable in the use and improvement of the property. The utility owners shall be
required to modify, adjust or relocate all or any portion of the utilities, as RTD may designate. The utility
owners shall bear the entire cost and expense incurred in connection with the construction,
maintenance, repair and renewal and any and all modifications, revisions, relocations or reconstructions
of the utilities.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD will receive $3,100 in compensation for the non-exclusive utility easement.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive utility easement over 3,769 square feet (0.086
acre, more or less) on the Boulder Branch segment of the Boulder Industrial Lead in the SE¼ Section
14, Township 1 North, Range 68 West, City of Dacono, County of Weld, State of Colorado.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
convey a non-exclusive utility easement over 3,769 square feet (0.086 acre, more or less) on the
Boulder Branch segment of the Boulder Industrial Lead in the SE¼ Section 14, Township 1 North,
Range 68 West, City of Dacono, County of Weld, State of Colorado. This is not recommended as
RTD is receiving fair market value for the easement and the easement does not limit current or future
RTD actions.
ATTACHMENTS:


Board Report #2068 Attachments

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Susan Altes, Manager, Real Property
Marcia Fraley, Property Management Specialist
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.A.a

ix
C)

C)
C

C)
C)

(N
C)
C

.~

a

I

I. ~

Approximate Area of
Proposed Utility Easement
South Weld Metro District

-

a

Summit BV~..Dacon 0,

Co 80514, USA

Google earth

Go gle earth

feet
km

3000
1

A
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Board Report #2068 Attachments (2086 : Utility Easement for South Weld)

I

2.11.A.a

-

—ø
—

/ -

Approximate Area of
Proposed Utility Easement
South Weld Metro District

-

Weld Couhty Road 8 I Summit Blvd

Google earth
2014 Gooqle

Go gle earth

feet
rieters

100
50

A
Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Board Report #2068 Attachments (2086 : Utility Easement for South Weld)

C,

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

October 16, 2014

Subject:

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate
Burden Policy

Assistant

Date: October 16, 2014
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve the
implementation of the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy.
BACKGROUND
Per Section 12 of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Master Agreement, RTD must comply with
49 CFR part 21 and FTA Circular 4702.1B, which effectuates Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(Title VI) and Executive Order 12898 “Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority and
Low-Income Populations.” Title VI and Environmental Justice essentially prohibit recipients of federal
financial assistance (grants, loans, land, etc...) from discriminating on the basis of race, color, national
origin and low—income status. Accordingly, RTD is committed to the administration of an equitable
mass transit system, with a specific interest in the impacts absorbed by minority and low-income
populations.
In pursuit of equitable transit, FTA Circular 4702.1B requires the completion of an equity analysis for all
fare changes. Through the equity analysis, RTD will evaluate fare changes for adverse effects that may
disproportionately impact minority or low-income populations. The FTA further requires that RTD develop
a Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy that will guide RTD in analyzing fare changes
for equity.
DISCUSSION
This policy establishes a statistical threshold to determine whether minority and low-income riders are
disproportionately impacted by the adverse effects of a proposed fare change. RTD has established
threshold of 5%. Thus the difference in the adverse effects absorbed by minority and low-income
persons as a result of any fare change or the average of multiple fare changes shall not be greater than
or less than 5% of impacts absorbed by the overall ridership (see full policy for details).
As RTD proceeds with the Fare Study, this policy is needed to ensure recommended alternative fare
policies are equitable in accordance with FTA requirements.
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
The FTA also requires that this policy be established through the public decision-making process.
Accordingly, RTD solicited feedback on the threshold during the Fare Study Problem Identification phase.
During this phase RTD sought feedback on the proposed threshold from Local Governments,
Transportation Management Associations/ Organizations (TMAs/TMOs), non-profit organizations and
community based organizations through a series of focus group style discussions. We also provided the
general public with opportunities to comment via the RTD website, phone and six public meetings held
throughout the district.

Packet Pg. 10

2.11.B

Generally, participants asked questions about the manner in which the threshold would be applied in an
equity analysis rather than commenting on the 5% threshold. Participants seemed more interested in
fare affordability and access to discounted fare media in the context of equity. Overall, reactions to the
proposed threshold and RTD’s philosophy on equity were positive.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The approval of this policy doesn’t result in a financial impact.
ALTERNATIVES
1) Approve the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy, achieving compliance with
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and secure current and future federal funding.
2) Delay the approval of the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy and jeopardize
current and future federal funding.
3) Reject the approval of the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy and jeopardize
current and future federal funding.
ATTACHMENTS:


Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final)

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Mike Washington, Title VI Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

Fare Disparate Impact and
Disproportionate Burden Policy
As a recipient of federal financial assistance, the Regional Transportation District (RTD) is
required to comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order 12898
“Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income
Populations” (Environmental Justice). Title VI and Environmental Justice require that federal
recipients administer all of their programs and initiatives without regard to race, color, national
origin and low-income status.
The purpose of this policy is to establish specific measures to avoid and mitigate
disproportionate impacts absorbed by minority and low-income populations with respect to
fare changes.

Definitions
The definition of each key term used in this policy is as follows:
Disparate Impact: a percentage of adverse effects absorbed by minority persons that is
considered to be significantly disproportionate.
Disproportionate Burden: a percentage of adverse effects absorbed by low-income persons
that is considered to be significantly disproportionate.
Fare Media: a form of payment for transit service (i.e. cash fare, monthly pass, etc...).
Fare Change: an increase in the price of fare media, decrease in the price of fare media,
creation of new fare media or the discontinuance of existing fare media.
Low-income Person: a person whose median household income is at or below 150% of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Poverty Guidelines. The HHS Poverty
Guidelines can be viewed at http://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty/index.cfm.

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page 1
Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

Minority Persons include the following:
(1) American Indian and Alaska Native, which refers to people having origins in any of the
original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who
maintain tribal affiliation or community attachment.
(2) Asian, which refers to people having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far
East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia,
China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and
Vietnam.
(3) Black or African American, which refers to people having origins in any of the Black
racial groups of Africa.
(4) Hispanic or Latino, which includes persons of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or
Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race.
(5) Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, which refers to people having origins in any of
the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.
Substantial Legitimate Justification: evidence that a policy/policy change is necessary to meet
a goal that is legitimate, important, and integral to RTD’s institutional mission and business
requirements (e.g. farebox recovery ratio policy).

Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Circular 4702.1B outlines Title VI and Environmental
Justice requirements pertaining to fare changes. Specifically, the circular requires recipients of
federal funds to establish a disparate impact and disproportionate burden policy. This policy
must establish a statistical threshold to determine whether minority and low-income riders
are disproportionately impacted by the adverse effects of a change between an existing
fare and a proposed fare.
Pursuant to this requirement, the RTD threshold indicating a disparate impact or
disproportionate burden shall be set to +/-5%. Thus the difference in the adverse effects
absorbed by minority and low-income persons as a result of any fare change or the average of
multiple fare changes, shall not be greater than or less than 5% of impacts absorbed by the
overall ridership.
Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page 2
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

Prior to establishing this threshold, RTD reviewed the thresholds established by peer transit
agencies, as well as FTA partiality to trending thresholds. Based on this review, other transit
agencies and the FTA tend to prefer the more conservative threshold of 5%. See Appendix A to
view thresholds established by other transit agencies.
Every proposed fare change shall undergo an Equity Analysis using this threshold to identify
disparate impacts and disproportionate burdens during the planning stage. An Equity Analysis is
a comparative analysis used to ensure that each proposed fare change has the least
discriminatory effect while still fulfilling RTD’s business requirements. This analysis is primarily
dependent upon customer satisfaction survey results that detail the use of fare media on a
demographic basis (e.g. race, income, etc…). See Appendix B for an example of how an equity
analysis uses the policy to evaluate a fare change for a Disparate Impact and Disproportionate
Burden.
In the event a fare change proposal results in a disparate impact or disproportionate burden,
RTD will examine alternatives in an attempt to avoid, minimize and mitigate the discriminatory
results of the initial proposal. If after the revision of the proposal a disparate impact or
disproportionate burden still exists, the equity analysis must demonstrate that the proposed
fare change is the least discriminatory option and there is a substantial legitimate justification
for the proposal (see the decision tree in Appendix C). Each proposed fare change will be
accompanied by a summary of an equity analysis for the RTD Board of Directors’ awareness,
consideration and approval.

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page 3
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

Appendix A
Peer Review

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

Page A- 1

Packet Pg. 15

In the examination of the Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy requirement,
peer transit agencies were examined as well to identify trends in establishment of the statistical
threshold. Thresholds ranging from 0% to 20% were observed in nationwide inquires. Though a
large range of threshold percentages were identified, the most commonly observed thresholds
were established at 10% or less. Depicted in the table below are the percentage thresholds
established by other transit agencies nationwide.

Transit Agency

Thresholds

Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority (Washington D.C.)

5%

L.A. Metro (Los Angeles, CA)
Capital Metro (Austin, TX)
Sacramento Regional Transportation
Authority (Sacramento, CA)
San Francisco Municipal
Transportation Agency (SFMTA)
Valley Metro Transit (Phoenix, AZ)
Orange County Transportation
Authority (Orange County, CA)
Southeastern Pennsylvania
Transportation Authority SEPTA
New York City Transit and
Metropolitan Transit Authority Bus

5% absolute change
(10% differential)
2%
20%
5%
4%
10%
5%
5%

The above thresholds suggest a pattern of transit agencies moving toward a common threshold.
Further, some agencies were interviewed to obtain a more detailed understanding of the FTA’s
response to their established threshold(s). Although the FTA has yet to provide a formal and
acceptable statistical differential for transit agencies, the evidence suggests that the FTA has
shown a general preference for a threshold of 5% or less. This percentage more closely
resembles the use of the statistical significance principle. Statistical significance refers to
whether any differences observed between groups being studied are "real" or simply due to
chance. While this principle doesn’t fit squarely into the context of measuring equity in transit,
it serves as a basic framework for determining disparate impacts and disproportionate burdens.
Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page A- 2
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

Appendix B
Equity Analysis
Example

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

Page B- 1

Packet Pg. 17

As an example, assume a fare increase on 10-Ride Ticket Books was proposed. RTD would have
to examine the percentage of minorities and low-income populations using 10-Ride Ticket
Books, compared to the percentage of the overall population that utilizes the 10-Ride Ticket
Books.
Fare Media Type
10-Ride Ticket Books

Minority
Ridership
45%

Demographics
Low-Income
Ridership
40%

Overall
Ridership
38%

The table above illustrates the percentage at which 10-Ride Ticket Books are used on a
demographic basis, comparing minority and low-income populations with the overall
population. Figure - 1 illustrates the use of this information to identify a Disparate Impact or
Disproportionate Burden using the +/-5% threshold.

Figure - 1

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page B- 2
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

The example chart above clearly reveals the existence of a disparate impact resulting from the
proposed fare change, as minority populations will absorb greater than 5% of the effects
absorbed by the overall population. Yet there is not a disproportionate burden since the effects
absorbed by low-income populations is less than 5% of the effects absorbed by the overall
population.

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page B- 3
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

Appendix C
Policy Decision Tree

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

Page C - 1

Packet Pg. 20

Potential Disparate Impact /
Disproportionate Burden?

Yes
No
Take actions to avoid, minimize and
mitigate
(Revise Proposal)

Analysis Complete

Analyze Changes for Disparate Impact /
Disproportionate Burden

Potential Disparate Impact /
Disproportionate Burden?

Yes

No

Is there a Substantial Legitimate Justification for the
proposal? Is the proposal the least discriminatory
alternative?

Analysis
Complete

Yes (answer to both
questions)

No (answer to either question)

Analysis Complete

Revise Proposal due to possible Title
VI violation
Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

Page C - 2
Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy (Final) (2110 : Fare Disparate Impact Disproportionate Burden Policy)

2.11.B.a

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2014

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 10, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the General Manager or his
designee be authorized to enter into a contract with Lamar Advertising of Denver for the three year
period January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 with a two year option for 2018 and 2019. Under
the terms of the recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $4.0
million in 2015, $4.1 million in 2016 and $4.2 million in 2017 or 2) seventy percent of net sales,
whichever is greater.
BACKGROUND
On August 20, 2014, a Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued soliciting proposals for the sale and
installation of exterior and interior advertising on RTD vehicles. Responses to the RFP were due on
September 25, 2014. This RFP offered proposers the option to submit for one or any of three sections:
1) bus, light rail and commuter rail; 2) ADA paratransit vehicles and 3) other in-vehicle advertising
opportunities. Three responses were received for section 1, and one response was received for each of
section 2 and section 3. Additional research is required prior to staff making a recommendation on the
proposals submitted for sections 2 and 3, so this action item covers section 1 only (bus, light rail and
commuter rail). The two remaining sections will come forward to the Board at a later time.
DISCUSSION
A total of three responses were received for the bus, light rail and commuter rail section of the RFP;
from CBS Outdoor, Direct Media and the incumbent Lamar Advertising of Denver. CBS Outdoor indicated
that they were declining the opportunity to submit a proposal, as they felt the minimum annual
guarantee contained in the RFP ($3.5 million per year) was beyond what they could offer. Staff reviewed
the remaining two proposals for compliance with a set of four minimum qualifications: 1) experience of
firm; 2) onsite key personnel experience; 3) sales history; and 4) financial responsibility. Both Direct
Media and Lamar were deemed to have met the minimum qualifications as outlined in the RFP.
Qualifying proposals were then ranked by a pre-established formula based on their revenue proposal,
which factored both minimum annual guarantee and percentage of net sales.
Upon review of the revenue proposals, Direct Media’s proposal did not meet the minimum annual
guarantee specified in the RFP. Lamar’s revenue proposal exceeded the minimum annual guarantee for
each year. For the first three years of the contract period, Lamar’s minimum guarantee was a total of
$3.9 million more than that of Direct Media.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Lamar’s financial proposal was the most advantageous to RTD, offering a minimum guarantee of $4.0
million in 2015, $4.1 million in 2016 and $4.2 million in 2017 or 70 percent of net sales, whichever is
greater. For this reason, staff is recommending that the contract be awarded to Lamar.

Packet Pg. 22

2.11.C

ALTERNATIVES
1.
Award a contract to Lamar Advertising of Denver for the three year period January 1, 2015
through December 31, 2017 for the exclusive sale of exterior advertising on RTD buses, light rail
and commuter rail vehicles and for the non-exclusive sale of interior advertising on RTD buses,
light rail and commuter rail vehicles. Under the terms of this alternative, Lamar would remit to
RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $4.0 million in 2015, $4.1 million in 2016 and $4.2
million in 2017 or 2) seventy percent of net sales, whichever is greater. This is the staff
recommendation.
2.

Do not award a contract to Lamar Advertising of Denver and reissue the RFP. This alternative is
not recommended because the contract amount proposed by Lamar exceeded the minimum
guarantee required in the RFP and there is no indication that a higher revenue figure could be
obtained.

Prepared by:
Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 23

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2014

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 10, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

Free Rides for Members of the Military

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on RTD for active duty
members of the United States Military should be extended from the presently approved date of December 31,
2014 to December 31, 2015. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact
on RTD.
BACKGROUND
At the October 30, 2006 Special Board Meeting, the RTD Board of Directors approved a resolution allowing
active duty U.S. Military personnel to ride free on all RTD services through the end of 2006. This offer has
been extended annually by the Board since that time and is now valid through December 31, 2014. As a result
of these actions, all active duty members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard, National Guard,
and Reserves are entitled to ride free on any RTD service including special services such as SkyRide and
BroncosRide. To be eligible to ride for free, active duty military personnel must either be in uniform or present
an active duty military ID card.
DISCUSSION
Staff recommends that the RTD Board of Directors extend this offer beyond the current expiration date of
December 31, 2014 and that the expiration date be extended by one year at this time and revisited again next
year.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The exact financial impact of this action is not known, but is expected to be minimal.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Extend free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015. This is the staff
recommendation.
2. Do not extend RTD’s program offering free rides for active duty members of the United States Military.
Prepared by:
Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 24

2.12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 16, 2014

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 16, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

January 2015 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the January 2015 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $969,000 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted. The proposals herein include a mix of service
enhancements, system maintenance actions and several service reductions. We will monitor customer
response to the implementation of these service changes and propose adjustments as appropriate in
future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Five public hearings were held during the public comment period, which extended between October 2nd
and October 16th. Public meetings were held in Denver, Federal Heights, Highlands Ranch and Parker
with nearly 200 hundred public participants. Comments from these meetings and the service change
website are summarized in Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following represent substantive changes proposed to
the service changes initially communicated to the Board of Directors for implementation as part of the
January 2015 service change:

Packet Pg. 25

2.12.E

Route 3Ltd – East Alameda Limited: minor schedule adjustments cancelled
Route 15Ltd – East Colfax: later weekday trip to be added
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park: extend Saturday service to Civic Center Station
Route 52 – West 52nd Avenue/South Bannock: weekday schedule adjustments added
Route 121 – Peoria Crosstown: weekday schedule adjustments
Arapahoe at Village City Center Station: due to construction of the hotel located at the facility, gate
assignments changes will affect Routes: 65, 66, AT and T
Belmar Call-n-Ride: adjustment to proposal and boundary
Federal Heights Call-n-Ride: proposed cancellation rescinded
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride: proposed cancellation rescinded
Parker Call-n-Ride: proposed cancellation rescinded
The following are to be added to the list of routes with Routine Service Adjustments:
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Route 77 – Ken Caryl Avenue
Route 120 – 120th Avenue/Brighton/Prairie View
Route 153 – Chambers Crosstown
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 6 – East 6th Ave/North Pecos: extend weekday trips from Rockmont, add Satuday trip.
Route 11 - Mississippi Avenue: Sundays add 7:25pm westbound
Route 15 – East Colfax: add service to address overloads
Route 15L – East Colfax Limited: add service to address overloads
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park: extend Saturday service to Civic Center Station
Route 43 – MLK Blvd./Gateway: extend 5:15am weekend trip eastbound
Route 48 – Commerce City: schedule adjustment to address on-time performance
Route 52 – West 52nd Avenue: schedule adjustment to address on-time performance
Route 73 – Quebec Street: add 5:22am weekday southbound trip from Stapleton
Route 105 – Havana Street: begin weekend southbound service one hour earlier
Route 121 – Peoria Street: begin weekend service 30 minutes earlier in each direction
Route 326 – Westside Crosstown: schedule adjustment to address on-time performance
Free MetroRide: schedule adjustment to address on-time performance

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard: reduce weekday peak frequency south of Colorado Station to
Southmoor Station
W-Line (West Corridor light rail): reduction in peak service and very early morning service.
Dry Creek Call-n-Ride: service area boundary change

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 72X – Ward Road Express: move the first Route 72X trip 5 minutes earlier
Route 104 – West 104th Avenue: re-route along Church Ranch Blvd
Route 122X – Wagon Road/Civic Center Express: Add 2 PM northbound trips
Route HX – 28th Street/ Civic Center: Add 2 AM southbound trips, 1 PM northbound trip Route
STAMPEDE – CU East Campus: add 4-5 short-turn round-trips
DUS Routes: 31X, 40X, 80X, 86X, 104X, 120X, B, L, S: general schedule and gate assignment
changes as needed
Route 102 Loop Extras: minor adjustments to the Loop Extras
Belmar Call-n-Ride: discontinue the Garrison Flex route and change the northern boundary

Packet Pg. 26

2.12.E

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments
Route 0 Limited Broadway: minor schedule adjustments
Route 8 North Washington: minor schedule adjustments
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: minor schedule adjustments
Routes 29/36/36Ltd: schedule adjustment to address on-time performance
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park: minor schedule adjustment
Route 38 – 38th Avenue: minor schedule adjustments
Route 46 – South Dahlia: minor schedule adjustments
Route 47X – Montbello/Green Valley Express: minor schedule
Route 77 – Ken Caryl Avenue: minor schedule adjustments
Route 100 – Kipling Crosstown: minor schedule adjustments
Route 120 – 120th Avenue/Brighton/Prairie View: minor schedule adjustments
Route 145X – Brighton/ DIA Express: minor schedule adjustment
Route 153 – Chambers Crosstown: minor schedule adjustments
Route 169L – Buckley/DIA: minor schedule adjustments
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorhead/North 19th: minor schedule adjustments
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown: minor schedule adjustments
Route AB – Boulder/ DIA: minor schedule adjustments (Saturday)
Route DD – Colorado Blvd: minor schedule adjustments
Route P – Parker/Denver: minor schedule adjustments to improve on –time performance
Route T – Boulder/ Glenwood Village: minor schedule adjustments
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact contained in this proposal is estimated to be $969,000 annualized; which is off-set
by $62,000 in grant funding, resulting in a net annualized cost of $907,000. An estimated $63,000
attributable to FasTracks impacts is included in the net annualized cost, which leaves an $844,000
annualized base system impact.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
Per the Major Service Change Policy, the proposed major service changes proposed herein are subject to
an equity analysis, which is detailed in Attachment C of this report.
A LOOK AHEAD – May 10, 2015
The following items are service concepts currently under consideration or are planned events that impact
operations in the next service change period:
 Service along Morrison Road in the Westwood neighborhood
 Optimization of W-Line (Light Rail) peak period service
 Civic Center Station construction detours
ATTACHMENTS:


Attach A January 2015 Service Changes revised



Attach B January 2015 Service Changes



Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3)

(DOCX)

(DOCX)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 27

2.12.E

Packet Pg. 28

2.12.E.a

January 2015 Proposed Service Changes

Route 6 – East 6th Ave/North Pecos
It is proposed to extend the weekday 3:04pm eastbound trip from the Rockmont Loop
(Platte – Rockmont Drive), which currently ends at Colorado Boulevard to Centrepoint &
Sable. Also on weekdays it is proposed to add a 5:34pm eastbound trip from Rockmont.
Fills in existing 36 minute gap between 5:30pm and 6:10pm. These efforts would relieve
passenger overloads on surrounding trips on the weekday Route 6.
Adding a 5:09am south/eastbound trip from 106th & Melody to Centrepoint & Sable is
proposed for Saturday service on the Route 6. This proposal would provide service 60
minutes earlier for Saturday morning job access.
Weekday cost impacts = 638 hours, $25,832 annualized
Saturday cost impacts = 104 hours, $4,214 annualized
Total proposal cost is an estimated $30,046 annualized
Route 8 – North Broadway/Huron
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 11 – Mississippi Ave
Trip time adjustments for improved connections. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 15 – East Colfax
The following are proposed to address the quality of service offered on the Route 15
service and more specifically, address the passenger capacity shortfalls that currently exist
on this service. Each of the proposed improvements to Route 15 is intended to solve
frequent overloads during a specific time period or on a specific trip:
- Weekdays, add 3:36am westbound trip from Colfax/Billings. Current first trip of
the morning at 3:51am is averaging a max load of 51 passengers and 78
boardings/hour. Cost = 1.5 hours
- Weekday mornings, improve frequency east of Monaco to Chambers Road from
every 30 to every 20 minutes between 9:00am and 1:00pm. Cost = 5 hours.
- Weekday afternoons, improve frequency east of Monaco to Chambers Road from
every 30 to every 15 minutes between 1:00pm and 6:00pm. Cost = 10 hours,
two peak buses.
- Saturday mornings, improve frequency east of Havana to Chambers Road from
every 30 to every 15 minutes from 5:15am to 9:30am. Cost = 4.2 hours (0.9
hours weekday equivalent).
Total proposal cost estimated to be $179,340 annualized

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Attach A January 2015 Service Changes revised (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Route 0 Limited Broadway
Schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. No cost impact
anticipated.

Route 15L – East Colfax Limited
The following are proposed to address the quality of service offered on the Route 15L
service and more specifically, address the passenger capacity shortfalls that currently exist
on this service. Each of the proposed improvements to Route 15L is intended to solve
frequent overloads during a specific time period or on a specific trip:
- Weekdays, add one morning peak westbound trip between 6:30 and 7:30am,
improving overall frequency from every 7.5 to every 6 minutes (including school
trip). Cost = 2.0 hours, one peak bus.
- Weekdays, add one morning peak trip between 7:40am and 8:30am, improving
overall frequency from every 10 to every 8 minutes. Cost = 1.7 hours.
- Weekdays, add two afternoon peak eastbound trips between 2:45pm and 3:45pm,
and two trips between 4:30pm and 5:30pm, improving overall frequency from
every 7.5 to every 6 minutes. Cost = 8.0 hours, two peak buses.
- Weekdays, add three eastbound trips between 6:00pm and 8:00pm, improving
overall frequency from every 15-30 minutes to every 10-15 minutes. Cost = 3.0
hours. (Note: utilizes buses that are otherwise deadheading from Decatur/Federal
to East Metro).
- Saturdays, begin westbound 15 minute frequency one hour earlier at 6:10am. Cost
= 5.0 hours (1.0 hours weekday equivalent)
- Saturdays, extend 15 minute frequency eastbound one hour later to 7:30pm. Cost
= 3.5 hours (0.7 hours weekday equivalent).
- An additional trip would be added to Colfax-Tower Rd after 7:00pm on weekdays.
Total proposal cost is estimated to be $169,800 annualized
Routes 29/36/36Ltd (Route 36Ltd is weekday only, peak hours)
To improve on-time performance it is proposed to add one all-day bus to these routes and
adjust operations plans. Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to address on-time
performance.
Weekday 2014 on-time performance data shows the Route 29 is on-time 87%,
Route 36 is on-time 88% and Route 36Ltd is on-time 75%. Weekday projected
cost: 4,590 hours, $185,987 annualized.
Saturday on-time performance data shows Route 29 is on-time 80% and Route 36
is on-time 70%. Saturday projected cost: 936 hours, $37,927 annualized
Sunday/Holiday 2014 on-time performance shows Route 29 is on-time 88% and
Route 36 is on-time 88%. Sunday projected cost: 1044 hours, $42,303 annualized
Total proposal cost anticipated to be an estimated $266,216
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park
Extend Saturday service to Civic Center Station, as it is on weekdays, to best utilize the
resources necessary to maintain Saturday on-time performance. Cost impact is an
estimated 416 annual hours and $16,850 annualized.

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Attach A January 2015 Service Changes revised (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

2.12.E.a

2.12.E.a

Route 40 – Colorado Blvd.
Weekdays, reduce peak frequency south of Colorado Station to Southmoor Station from
every 20 to every 30 minutes. Schedule will be coordinated with Route 46 south of
Colorado Station for approximate 15 minute frequency along Colorado Blvd. Additionally
weekend schedule adjustments will also be made,
Cost savings impact estimated to be = -1,530 hours (one peak bus) and $$61,996
annualized
Route 43 – MLK Blvd./Gateway
This proposal would extend the eastbound 5:15am weekend trip from Stapleton pnR to
the Walmart at Tower/Salida in Aurora. This is an effort to provide earlier morning work
access to the area shopping center.
Cost impacts are anticipated to be an estimated 153 hours, $6,200 annualized.
Route 46 – South Dahlia
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 47X – Montbello/Green Valley Express
Schedule adjustments to improve on –time performance are proposed. No cost impacts are
anticipated.
Route 48 – Commerce City
To improve on-time performance of this route service, schedule adjustments are proposed.
Cost impacts are estimated to be 1530 hours (one peak vehicle) and $61,996 annualized.
Route 52 – West 52nd Avenue/South Bannock Street:
To improve on-time performance it is proposed to adjust the weekday and weekend
schedules. Most recent performance data lists the Route 52 at 85% on-time. Anticipated
cost estimated to be 220 hours, and $8,914 annualized.
Route 72X – Ward Road Express:
To improve connections at Union Station, it is proposed to move the first Route 72X trip 5
minutes earlier to depart Quaker/Westwoods at 5:17 and arrive at Union Station at 5:57.
Minor schedule adjustments to Union Station arrive times are also proposed.
Anticipated costs are estimated to be 23 hours and $1,146 annualized.
Route 73 – Quebec Street
Weekdays, add 5:22am southbound trip from Stapleton to Arapahoe Station. Current first
trip at 5:52am averages 45 passengers. Cost impacts are projected to be an estimated
332 hours and $13,432 annualized.
Route 77 – Ken Caryl Avenue
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Attach A January 2015 Service Changes revised (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Route 38 – 38th Avenue
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.

2.12.E.a

Route 104 – West 104th Avenue
This proposal re-routes the Route 104 along Church Ranch Blvd, between Westminster
Blvd and Reed Street, to increase visibility and access to the route along Church Ranch
Boulevard. This will allow for reduced running times and will result in better on-time
performance as well. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 105 – Havana Street
It is proposed to begin southbound service one hour earlier at 4:52am on weekends,
operating every 30 minutes when presently every 60 minutes. Current Saturday early
morning productivity is 59.5 boardings per hour, and first northbound trip averages
standees. Current Sunday early productivity is 53.5 boardings per hour.
Saturday cost impacts are estimated to be 156 hours and $6,321 annualized.
Sunday/Holiday cost impacts are estimated to be 348 hours and $14,101
Total cost impacts of this proposal are projected to be $20,422
Route 120 – 120thAvenue/Brighton/Prairiview
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 121 – Peoria Street
It is proposed to begin weekend service 30 minutes earlier in each direction at 5:00am.
Current first trips in each direction average 21 passengers. Cost impacts are estimated to
be 504 hours and $31,000 annualized.
Route 122X – Wagon Road/Civic Center Express
Add 2 PM northbound trips to address overload and pass-up issues, one at approximately
5:00pm and the other at about 5:15pm, both starting at 18th/California. Reschedule last 3
northbound trips due to operational (layover/interline) issues. Cost anticipate to be an
estimated 638 hours and $31,843 annualized.
Route 145X – Brighton/ DIA Express
Schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. No cost impacts are
anticipated.
Route 153 – Chambers Crosstown
Add 5:56am weekday southbound trip from Montbello Park-n-Ride to Centrepoint & Sable,
to relieve overloads on existing trip at 6:11am from Montbello. Cost impacts are estimated
to be 255 hours and an estimated $10,300 annualized.
Route 169L – Buckley/DIA
Schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. No cost impacts are
anticipated.

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Attach A January 2015 Service Changes revised (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Route 100 – Kipling Crosstown:
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance on Saturday.
Projected cost are estimated to be 104 hours (Saturday) and $4,214 annualized.

2.12.E.a

schedule,

to

address

on-time

Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown
Weekday schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance issues. No
cost impacts anticipated.
Route 326 – Westside Crosstown:
Weekday schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. No cost
impacts anticipated.
Route AB – Boulder/ DIA:
Saturday schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. No cost
impacts are anticipated.
Arapahoe at Village Center Station
Due to the development of the hotel at this station, several routes will need to have gate
assignments changed to allow for construction and future operations. This change will
impact Routes: 65, 66, AT and T.
Belmar Call-n-Ride
The Belmar Call-n-Ride began operating in April 2013 with the opening of the West Line.
The Call-n-Ride operates Monday-Friday 5:30am – 8:00pm. The Call-n-Ride currently
serves the Garrison Station. The boundaries can best be described as 13th on the north
and one stop on Colfax at Garrison, Wadsworth on the east, Kipling on the west and
Morrison Road to the south. The Call-n-Ride also runs a Flex Route on Garrison during the
peak hours. The ridership has been averaging 1.6 passenger boarding’s per hour. This
proposal calls for discontinuing the Garrison Flex route and for the changing of the north
boundary to be moved south to 10th Avenue. The boundary will be adjusted west of
Kipling and north of 13th to the Oak Station.
Additionally, the south boundary at
Morrison Road will be moved up to Jewell. This change to the Oak Station will now allow
customers to transfer to the Route 16 and 100 at a station and alleviate neighborhood
concerns regarding the safety and the vehicle traffic in the neighborhood in and around the
Garrison Station.
After further consideration from public input, the boundary will continue at 13th and
Garrison Station will continue to be served by reservation only.
No additional costs are anticipated.
Route DD – Colorado Blvd
Schedule adjustments to improve on-time performance are proposed. No cost impacts are
anticipated.

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Attach A January 2015 Service Changes revised (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorhead/North 19th
Schedule adjustments are proposed for weekday
performance issues. No cost impacts are anticipated.

Dry Creek Call-n-Ride
The Dry Creek Call-n-Ride began operating in November 2006 with the opening of the
Southeast Light Rail. The Call-n-Ride operates Monday-Friday 5:30am – 7:00pm. The
Call-n-Ride currently serves the Dry Creek Station. The boundaries can best be described
as Arapahoe Road on the north, I-25 on the east, County Line Road to the south and Holly
on the west. During off peak hours the Call-n-Ride serves the entire area. During peak
hours the Call-n-Ride serves only to Quebec. This proposal calls for changing the
boundaries by not serving west of Quebec and north of Dry Creek. This area has been
very unproductive and by removing this section may allow better productivity in the
remaining area. No costs associated with this change.
DUS Routes: 31X, 40X, 80X, 86X, 104X, 120X, B, L, S
General schedule and gate assignment changes as needed
Free MetroRide
To improve reliability in the afternoon peak, it is proposed to add one-bus and make minor
schedule adjustments. Service will still be offered every 6 minutes.
Projected cost: 893 hours and an estimated $36,150 annualized.
Route HX – 28th Street/ Civic Center
Add 2 AM southbound trips and 1 PM northbound trip to address overload and pass-up
issues; AM trips would be at about 7:16 am and 7:46am, both starting at Pearl and 29th
PnR; PM trip would be at about 4:45pm leaving from 18th/California. Cost estimated to be
1,148 hours and $52,750 annualized
Route P – Parker/Denver
Schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on–time performance. No cost impacts are
anticipated.
Route STAMPEDE – CU East Campus
Add 5 trips between 18th/Euclid and East Campus/Discovery Drive, as warranted and
supported by a Transit Improvement Plan grant funding extension (2012-2018) through
DRCOG). Cost impact offset by grant ($61,996 annualized)
Route T – Boulder/ Glenwood Village
Schedule adjustments are proposed to address on-time performance issues. No cost
impacts are anticipated.

Light Rail
W – Line (West Corridor Light Rail)
It is proposed to use the Mariposa yard as a garage for Weekday W-Line trains. Under the
proposed changes, this will require capacity for 9 peak trains and 22 peak light rail
vehicles. This proposal will greatly reduce the strain placed on the I-25 & Broadway
Junction before the morning peak and reduce deadhead and livehead travel times;

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Attach A January 2015 Service Changes revised (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

2.12.E.a

2.12.E.a

however, it will also reduce some early-morning “C-Line” pullout trains from Evans to
Union Station, which are currently lightly patronized.

It is also proposed to discontinue ten additional Monday-Friday trips on the fringes of the
AM and PM peak periods: Eastbound trips from Federal Center Station at 6:31 AM, 8:31
AM, 3:46 PM, 4:16 PM, and 6:16 PM and Westbound trips from Union Station at 6:11
AM, 8:11 AM, 3:26 PM, 3:56 PM, and 5:56 PM. This proposed change effects
approximately 529 passengers that will need to take a W-Line 7.5 minutes earlier or later.
Total hours saved: (Mondays-Thursdays) 1,275 annualized.
Route 102 Loop Extras – it is proposed to make minor adjustments to the Loop Extras,
trains 10, 50, and 70, to adjust times and service based on early information gathered
from the August 2014 runboard. Changes to hours are not anticipated.
Savings 1,700 annual hours, $314,500
W-Line: It is proposed to extend the existing Denver Union Station (DUS) Weekday hostler
hours so that there is coverage all day for one hostler (currently there are two hostlers in
each AM and PM peak). This would change the existing four splits to two splits and two
straights. This change helps provide layover and relief for W-Line operators at DUS.
Costs 2,040 annual hours, $377,400
Total net proposal cost is estimated to be 340 hours, $62,900 annualized.

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Attach A January 2015 Service Changes revised (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Total hours saved: (Mondays-Thursdays) 425 annualized.

2.12.E.b

ATTACHMENT B
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC MEETINGS – JANUARY 2015

Doug Monroe conducted the meeting. Staff in attendance included Nataly Erving, Nate
Diaz, Jessie Carter, Jeff Becker, Jeff Dunning, Nick Shoup, Dave Menter, Daniel Menter,
Diane Marquis, Brian Matthews, Pate Heye and Chris Marko. There were no elected
officials in attendance. In addition there was a count of 43 members of the public who
signed in.
Route 11:
On Sundays, Leticia Mangeson said that she needs the route 11 to run later than its
current end time of 7:00 pm.
Denver Union Station/18th Street Detour:
Many in attendance were in favor of the city’s proposal to establish two-way traffic along
18th St between Wynkoop and Blake and therefore have bus service along this segment
thus removing it from Wynkoop St. Among those in favor were Elizabeth Orr who wanted
to know the time frame for its implementation. [Jessie Carter answered that it would be
on October 31st, 2014]. Andy Youtz, who lives at 1720 Wynkoop noted an increase in
activity along Wynkoop since Union Station opened last May not only with RTD buses, but
with convention buses, tour buses, more taxis and cars standing in the middle of the
street blocking traffic and for this reason feels that 18th would be better for routing buses
than Wynkoop is and therefor he wants to make sure that the decision not to route them
on Wynkoop is upheld. Andy’s sentiment was echoed by Vickie Godbey of the Union
Station Advocates. Ryan King is also in support of this upcoming change.
However, Tom Rickert, who lives at Franklin Lofts likes the current routing arguing that if
the plan is implemented, 100% of the buses would be on 18th and he did not find that to
be “equitable” and asked that some buses use other streets.
John Parkinson pointed out that there are priorities on all sides and that the final decision
should not be swayed by individual interests.
Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride:
Terry Whitmore asked us to save the Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride stating that the trip that
her daughter uses to get to school is full. She pointed to many factors that suggest our
keeping this service including the projected doubling of the region’s population by 2040
with 1 in four residents being over 60 at that time, many of which are likely to want to
remain independent, yet also remain in this region but needing to not depend on Single
Occupancy Vehicles (SOV). She said that when customers are forced to become a SOV
due to elimination of transit service, they are likely lost to transit and not likely to return.
She also mentioned that the Douglas County residents that would be negatively affected
by this cut contribute to the system with the highest farebox rate and that equity in the
system would keep service to their area running.

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

RTD Administrative Offices
Thursday, October 2, NOON, 2014

Morrison Rd / Westwood neighborhood:
There was considerable support for the possibility of restoring transit service in the
Westwood neighborhood including along Morrison Rd which was discontinued in January,
2012 due to budget constraints. Among the comments supporting restored service:
 Lillian Castaway who is disabled, who would like this service restored not to just
during peak hours but during the entire day. Andrea Chiriborga-Flor and Lorena
Limon agreed that full day service is needed as there are many elderly in this area
and she wants to avoid transit “pockets” of non-service. Andrea also thanked RTD
for the opportunity to address this issue at this meeting.
 Patricia Grado who works in Westwood said that many families that live in the area
do not have cars and without convenient transit service have to walk more than a
mile to where there is service, even if they have cancer and are going to medical
appointments. Marisol Valencia also said that she could use this service to get to
medical treatments and therefore it would be helpful for it to run during the entire
day.
 Mayra Olivas who works with the families in the Westwood area said that families
have to walk more than a ½ mile to buy groceries and in the winter that gets even
more difficult.
 It’s difficult with good transit service for kids to get to school according to Lydia
Cameron.
 Tracy Kaye, who works for Healthy Places a Colorado Health Fund, referred to
Westwood as an “island” of non-service. She said that there are many community
members who have multiple part-time jobs that they have trouble getting to. She
said that not only do they “deserve” service, but providing such transit service
would get them to walk to/from the bus and therefore contribute to their overall
health. Laura Martinez who works as a housekeeper also finds it very difficult to
get to / from work without better service in this neighborhood.
 Barnum resident Eric Kornabi, the Executive Director and Co-Founder of Re:Vision,
an organization that works with people in marginalized neighborhoods suggested
that with Westwood not having convenient transit options, our service is not
“Equitable” as it is in areas such as LoDo. He mentioned that although between
16,000 – 17,000 vehicles a day travel on Morrison Rd, there is not one transit
stop. He said that his organization is helping to establish a new grocery store on
Morrison Rd and that having transit service along that street will benefit this new
business.
 Olga Seguin mentioned that it is not safe for children to walk along Morrison Rd
and that bus service that they could take would make things safer for them. Bertha
Perez also said that walking along Morrison Rd is dangerous and that she has
missed medical appointments at Denver Health Medical Center because of the poor
transit service in the area. Marisol Valencia also mentioned this would be helpful for
children getting to and from school.
 Ivan Escalante is also in favor of restoring this service since students now have
very far to walk, but he pointed out that the fares are too high as many can not
afford them.
 Rachel Cleaves of Westwood Unidos, who was surprised that no proposals for new
service on Morrison Rd was proposed, did a survey in which 52% of those she

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

2.12.E.b





survey said that one’s employment is affected by access to public transit and such
transit is currently not accessible in this neighborhood which she said is one of the
youngest and densest in the city. She also asked RTD to be “creative” in how we
establish this new service saying that the old service was not adequate and that
she would prefer a “shuttle”.
Monica Acosta of Parents and Youth United, an education and justice organization
is dedicated to removing the boundaries that hinder education and employment
opportunities and that one of these barriers is poor public transportation. She said
that her families rely on public transportation for such things as getting to school,
child care, work, shopping and health care. Without public transit, many have to
walk ten blocks or so to Sheridan Blvd and that their quality of life gets impacted
when they have to make difficult choices as a result of the poor transit.
Others that affirmed agreement with creating service in this area included Mary
Cruz Herrera.

RTD Administrative Offices
Thursday, October 2, 6:00 PM, 2014
Jessie Carter conducted the meeting with Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede present. RTD
Staff in attendance included Jonathan Wade. There were 23 members of the public who
signed in.
There were no comments or questions concerning items listed in the service change
proposal. The following topics and question were discussed during the public input
session:






The Westwood neighborhood would benefit from service along Morrison Road
connecting them to other RTD services, grocery stores, and medical facilities.
The Westwood community would like RTD to consider operating a “circulator”
service in the Westwood area.
The Urban land Conservancy (ULC) has invested in housing developments in the
Westwood community and would like to see service along Morrison Road.
Why are there delays on the D-Line Light Rail service in the Five Points area?
As RTD expands the light rail system to the suburbs it seems that RTD has
forgotten about the people in the inner city.

The meeting was concluded at approximately 7:15pm.
Highlands Ranch
Thursday, October 2, 6:00PM, 2014
Brian Matthews conducted the meeting. RTD Staff in attendance included Patrick Heye,
Dan Menter, and Doug Monroe. Director Kent Bagley was also present. There were 23
members of the public who signed in.
Brian first asked for any comments that were not related to the Highlands Ranch Call-nRide and received the following:

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

2.12.E.b

2.12.E.b




The route 0 is much too slow to ride all the way to downtown Denver. An express
or limited 0 is needed.
Access-a-Cab service is inefficient, unreliable, and customer hates using it.
Extend the 402Ltd and extend the service hours.

The meeting was then turned over to comments regarding the proposal to cancel the
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride and the following comments were recorded:















Since no school bus service is provided, we need to keep the Call-n-Ride.
The CnR arrival phone notification system is very inaccurate.
The CnR is too busy during the peak hours for anyone to get rides except for
students.
One neighborhood of 200 homes is all seniors who will be left without
transportation if the CnR is cancelled.
The CnR is perfect for students and teaches independence with more safety than
401 or 402 Ltd.
There has not been sufficient marketing, especially to charter schools.
The drivers are great and we feel safe allowing our children to use CnR.
We appreciate the CnR and it will be needed even more with the continued growth
of Highlands Ranch.
CnR would operate better with a central dispatch instead of drivers doing it
themselves.
Ridership would double with a second bus during peak hours.
Students need a bus just for them from 7:00am-9:00am and 2:30-4:30pm.
Parents would be happy to pay a higher fare to keep the CnR service for students.
The community was not given enough advance notice of CnR cancellation to help
do something about keeping it.
One person gave us a written letter. Attached.

The meeting was concluded at approximately 7:45pm.
Federal Heights
Wednesday, October 8, 6:00PM, 2014
Staff in attendance included: Brian Matthews, Pat Heye, and Nate Diaz. There were 28
members of the public in attendance, primarily in favor of the continuation of the Federal
Heights Call-n-Ride. RTD Board Member in attendance included: Larry Hoy.
Officials included Federal Heights City Council members John Hamlin and Daniel Dick, as
well as Kent Moorman, Traffic Engineer for the City of Thornton.
Director Hoy and Brian Matthews gave an update on the status of the offer to continue the
Federal Heights Call-n-Ride service as a cost share proposal between RTD, Adams County,
Northglenn, Federal Heights, and Thornton until May 8, 2015.

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)



2.12.E.b

Federal Heights Call-n-Ride - The rest of the public was in support of keeping the Federal
Heights Call-n-Ride. The majority of attendees were residents of the Villa Maria senior
living community and were encouraged to attend by community advocate Bonnie Good
and arrived via the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride. Community members stressed the benefits
the service provided, stating that it gave them freedom, the ability to get to the store,
pharmacy, and doctor, an opportunity to make friends with other riders, and access to
restaurants and community and cultural events. One member of the public, who teaches
disabled youth, said that she had just recently learned of the Call-n-Ride and now all 20 of
her students are able to use it to get to and from their jobs at the local ARC. Bonnie Good
spoke last, highlighting the need for the service for students, seniors, emergency
preparedness, first and final mile connections and community building. She also submitted
a letter of support for the Call-n-Ride to the public record (please see attached).
All of the public commended RTD on the dependable, safe and courteous drivers operating
the Call-n-Ride Service. Several community members brought up frustrations with the Calln-Ride scheduling software. One cited complaint was the software’s inability to handle
recurring, once-a-month trips. Frequently mentioned was the software’s inability to handle
multiple passengers wishing to go to the same or nearby destinations and the desire for it
to suggest more logical and efficient routings. One member of the public suggested, as
call-n-Ride buses are replaced, they are re-wrapped with a design that more clearly shows
the “RTD” logo, so as to cut down on confusion as to what it is.
6:47p - The hearing was closed, so that attendees could return home via the Federal
Heights Call-n-Ride.
Parker
Thursday, October 9, 6:00PM, 2014
Brian Matthews conducted the meeting. RTD Staff in attendance included Patrick Heye,
Cesar Ochoa, and Dan Menter. Director Gary Lasater and three Parker city council
members were present. There were 47 members of the public who signed in.
Brian first asked for any comments that were not related to the Parker Call-n-Ride and
received the following:






The route 410 only runs between 5:00am-8:30am and 2:00pm-5:00pm. We need
midday service.
This customer runs a website “rtdpriders.com” and wants everyone to visit it.
The route P always gets assigned the old buses.
We need to extend the RTD boundary to the south because those people ride the
bus and should pay taxes for it.
The route P needs to serve the Pinery area.

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Route 31x - One member of the public spoke asking if the last PM trip of Route 31x could
be moved back from a 5:21p departure at Union Station to 5:30p to accommodate the
additional distance to reach Union Station as compared to the former Market Street
Station.

2.12.E.b





Route 153 needs more frequent service.
The route P needs more trips. It often has standing room only.
The 7:05am route P from Parker is always late or never shows up at all.













Parker pays 7.9 million annually to RTD and gets almost nothing in return.
The charter school students need CnR service.
The CnR is a necessity to us, not just a convenience.
The senior population is growing fast and depends on CnR service.
The CnR area should be expanded to include the Jorden and Pine area.
Running Saturday service during the holiday season would help ridership.
Remove the 5 minute window and it will speed things up.
The current morning driver has a bad attitude and is hurting ridership.
A second bus would help ridership.
If Lincoln Station were served ridership would increase greatly.
The CnR system needs to have a central dispatch. Drivers have problems with the
phone calls. They often do not answer or return call.
Need to organize shopping trips for seniors.
More marketing needs to be done before cancelling the service.
Should expand the CnR boarders to the west.
Organize some senior shopping trips in the midday to increase ridership.






The meeting was concluded at approximately 8:00pm.
Additional Public Comments Received via email and phone calls.
Route

Support

Opposed

Inquiry/
Complaint

Additional Comments
Last Name

Brinkerhoff
0

1

9

1

Brazo

12

1

12

1

52

1

52

1

52

1

77

1

Long
Miller
Becker
Lewis
Roberson

Hiller

86X and 0 connection no longer
work since opening of DUS - please
adjust 0 schedule to meet bus
Opposed to cutbacks in service needs later bus
Request route 12 to Downtown
come back
Request to have the Route 12
come back downtown
Would like to see route go back to
46th/Pecos
In support of route improvements
Consider weekend and Holiday
trips
Facility Manager/Comcast at
Colorado/East Dry Creek - would
like service reinstated

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

The meeting was then turned over to comments regarding the proposal to cancel the
Parker Call-n-Ride and the following comments were recorded:

2.12.E.b

1

101

1

101

1

101

1

101

1

103

1

103

1

103

1

103

1

103

1

103

1

Alomia
Chapman
Jordan
Kastelic
Tyler
Comella
Eberhard
Hubbard

Jones

103

Mac
Martin
1
Tolfree

104

1

104

1

Bare

Howard
120X

1

120X

1

122X

1

122X

1

122X

1

122X

1

Wants 5:09 AM E Line at Broadway
returned
Upset lack of E lines to Union
Station
Requesting connection from
Parker Rd to Lincoln Directly
Lack of C lines to Union station at
Evans Street Station
Lack of C lines to Union station at
Evans Street Station
Opposed to any service cuts
Unhappy with cutbacks to W-Line
service during rush hour
Opposed to removing 6:11 AM WB
trip from W-Line
Opposed to cutting
service//already problems with
rude students
Opposed to discontinuing trains on
the W-Line
Opposed to cuts in W-line service
Requesting more cars on W line
since school started crowded/standing loads

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

101

Opposed to removing loop that
serves Target
Doesn’t' feel route need a change but moe consistent drivers - some
have no problem

Buses need greater bike access often has to wait for a second, or
Afflerbaugh even third bus to put bike on
Complaint that 120X drops
passengers too far from front of
station - difficult for handicapped
Bordas
passengers
Supports more service - tired of
standing loads
Casias
Davidson
Supports more service - tired of
standing loads
Krudwig
Supports more service - tired of
standing loads
Landberg
Supports more service - tired of
standing loads

Packet Pg. 42

2.12.E.b

Meyer

1

122X

1

122X

1

122X

1

Nolan

Redman

Redman
122X

1

122X

1

15L

1

Romero
Weingardt
Warnock

169L

1

18th St
Resident
18th St
Resident
18th St
Resident
18th St
Resident
18th St
Resident
18th St
Resident
18th St
Resident
31x

1

Salazar
Dunleavy

1

Farmer
1

1

Gallagher
Ginsky

1

O'Connor

1

Olsen

1

Tatman

1
Nunez

31X

1

48X

1

Short

Blosser
Fell

Supports more service - tired of
standing loads
Standing loads on every bus unsafe
Supports more service - tired of
standing loads
Support additional service currently standing loads on 5:40
and 6:02 buses
Supports more service - tired of
standing loads
Supports more service - tired of
standing loads
Supports adding more service standing loads/buses late
Requesting more service on the
169L and 153
Opposed to more buses coming
down 18th Street
Strongly opposed to more buses
coming down 18th Street
Opposed to rerouting buses on
18th Street
Opposed to more buses coming
down 18th Street
Strongly opposed to more buses
coming down 18th Street
Opposed to more buses coming
down 18th Street
Strongly opposed to more buses
coming down 18th Street
Would like to see more express
buses - need earlier start time in
the PM as well
Would support more service buses almost at capacity
Would like to see Express service
from Commerce City PnR to
Downtown Denver

86X

1

would like better connection to
the 0 - since MSS closed connections no longer work

86X

1

Unhappy with poor connection to
Route 0

Habernal

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

122X

Packet Pg. 43

2.12.E.b

1

AB

1

AB

1

AB

1

Bel-Mar
CnR
Bel-Mar
CnR

1

1

BF

1

BMX

1

BMX

1

BV

1

Florida

1

FMR

1

Highlands
Ranch CnR

1

Highlands
Ranch CnR

Klaburner

Brimmer
Davidson
Lenny
Vogeli

1
1
1
1
1

Need increased service - an earlier
bus as well as a later PM bus
Need more buses - often late drivers don't know route
Would like bus earlier that 7:56 \
BMX needs to run later to
accompodate Auraria campus
night classes

Ayers

Suggesting route
changes/upgrades for B and BV
Requesting route on Florida to
Broadway/Evans LtR
Requesting bus to start earlier in
the PM - around 2:30
Unhappy with RTD service cuts in
general
Opposed to any cuts in service

Close

Opposed to cutting service - many
residents of Settler's Village need
transportation.

Baca
Baca
Olsen
Banks

1

Highlands
Ranch CnR
Highlands
Ranch CnR
Highlands
Ranch CnR
Highlands
Ranch CnR
HX

Talley
Voeller

Shofner

BF

1

Fischer

Unhappy with poor connection to
Route 0
Route should run more often and
be less expensive
Lack of details on service change
page - would like increased service
Would like bus to avoid
Stapleton/40th stops as they delay
route
Requesting weekend service
Opposed to any cuts in service

1

General

Metz

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

86X

Opposed to cutbacksin service
Crushing
Opposed to cutbacks in service
Harrington
Opposed to discontinuing service.
Smith
Vierth

Unhappy with cuts in call-n-ride

Cline

Supports more service - tired of
standing loads

Packet Pg. 44

2.12.E.b

1
Greene

HX

1
Kaufman

HX

1

LSX

1

MALL

1

Nguyen

1

P
Parker CnR

1
1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Parker CnR

1

Lowrey
Nichols
HENZEL

Nguyen
McGovern
Clark
LaCroix

Lowe
MaHa
Mizer
Ortega
Reed
Sabad
SPIES

Request

1

Request

1

Request

1

Stampede

1

Stampede

1

Turner
Wetzel
Juarrero
Kelley

Winslow
Comly
Jackson

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

HX

Would like a SB AM HX to leave
Table Mesa approx 8:20 to
accommodate those dropping kids
off at schools
Standing loads on buses dangerous uncomfortable
situation
Support additional 7:46 AM bus
from Pearl St.
Needs adjustments in service to
bus can match schedule
Would like to see mall shuttles
start earlier with opening of DUS
Supports additional service currently inadequate
Wanted more detail of changes
Opposed to discontinuing service
Against discontinuing vital needed service
Opposed to cutting service in
Parker
Opposed to discontinuing service
Opposed to cutting service daughter uses for school
80 yo depends on service.
Opposed to cutting it back
Opposed to cuts in service
Opposed to cancelling service - 75
year old mother relies on it
Opposed to cancelling service
Opposed to service being
cancelled
Opposed to discontinuing service
Request for direct service from
Fort Collins to Boulder
Requesting direct bus from
Hampden PnR to Englewood
station
Lives in Momument - would like
service there
Request for more buses - currently
very crowded
Request to service across Regent
Drive to University

Packet Pg. 45

Stampede
Stampede

Roers

Request for route covering Regent
Drive, Colorado, and University to
Arapahoe

Slinkard

Starting msot of the day buses
only half full - service is adequate
Smart Cards that charge per
distance - rewards for frequent
riders
Request for Wi-Fi on Regional
buses and all trains
Would like 70th/Broadway stop
removed from route - rarely used

1
1

DeOreo
Suggestion

1

Suggestion

1

T

1

Total

17

Route

Support

77

240

Total

35
Opposed

240
0
Total Communications

Rollins
Hosman

Attachment: Attach B January 2015 Service Changes (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

2.12.E.b

45

Petitions
Inquiry
Summation of typical complaints
Survey from Comcast Employees - requesting Rte
77 be reinstated
0
337

Packet Pg. 46

EQUITY ANALYSIS
10/14/2014

January 2015 Service Changes
The equitable distribution of transit service is a core principle of the
Regional Transportation District. This document details the measures
taken to ensure major service changes do not result in a disparity in
impacts absorbed by minority and low-income populations.

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

2.12.E.c

2.12.E.c

Equity Analysis

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................................................................... 2
SERVICE CHANGE PHILOSOPHY .................................................................................... 2
ANALYSIS ....................................................................................................................... 3
Policies ................................................................................................................................................ 3
Proposed Major Service Changes ................................................................................................. 3
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride – Cancellation ............................................................................ 3
Parker Call-n-Ride – Cancellation .............................................................................................. 4
Equity Analysis Methodology ......................................................................................................... 4
CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................. 5
Appendix A: GIS MAPS

Page 1
Packet Pg. 48

2.12.E.c

Equity Analysis

In the pursuit of the provision of mass transit service in the Denver Metro Area, equity is a core principle
of the Regional Transportation District (RTD). An equitable mass transit system fairly distributes the
benefits and adverse effects of transit service without regard for race, color, national origin or lowincome status. This principle is detailed and reinforced by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Environmental Justice.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national
origin in programs receiving federal financial assistance. Specifically Title VI states, “No person in the
United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, shall be excluded from participation
in, denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving
Federal financial assistance.”
In 1994, President Clinton issued Executive Order 12898 “Federal Actions to Address Environmental
Justice in Minority and Low-Income Populations,” which states that each federal agency “shall make
achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing disproportionately high
and adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on minority
populations and low-income populations.”
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI and Environmental Justice. In this circular,
the FTA requires RTD to evaluate any and all major service changes to determine whether those changes
will have a disproportionate negative impact on minority or low-income populations.

SERVICE CHANGE PHILOSOPHY
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We continually adjust services in response
to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also our
responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications, curtailment or
cancellation of service as warranted. We utilize our official Service Standards to establish performance
metrics by which we identify underperforming services on a class of service basis.

…The general assembly further finds that the district should be organized efficiently,
economically, and on a demand-responsive basis and that the district should consider least-cost
alternatives in discharging its responsibilities. The general assembly further finds that the
farebox recovery ratio of the district must be improved so that resources once allocated for
mass transportation can be made available for other surface transportation needs.
Colorado Revised Statutes 32-9-119.7. Farebox Recovery Ratios – Plans

Page 2
Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

2.12.E.c

Equity Analysis

The FTA also requires that RTD establish policies that will guide the analysis of major service changes for
equity. Accordingly, RTD has established equity analysis policies to meet this requirement and establish a
service evaluation process.

Policies
Per FTA Circular 4702.1B Chapter IV.7, RTD must establish a Major Service Change policy, a Disparate
Impact policy and a Disproportionate Burden policy. Collectively, these policies provide foundational
requirements for evaluating major service change proposals for equity. These policies and their
applicable thresholds are listed below:
1. Major Service Change Policy: A major service change is defined as a 25% addition or reduction
in the service hours of any route that would remain in effect for twelve (12) or more months. All
major service changes will be subject to an equity analysis which includes an analysis of adverse
effects.
a. Adverse Effect: is defined as a geographical or temporal reduction in service which
includes but is not limited to: elimination of a route, shortlining a route, rerouting an
existing route and an increase in headways. RTD shall consider the degree of adverse
effects, and analyze those effects, when planning major service changes.
2. Disparate Impact Policy: A major service change should not adversely affect a minority
population 10% more than non-minority populations; this level of impact is considered a
disparate impact.
3. Disproportionate Burden Policy: A major service change should not adversely affect a low-income
population 10% more than non-low-income populations; this level of impact is considered a
disproportionate burden. A low-income population is a group of households who are at or below
150% of the Department of Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines.
If a proposed major service change results in a disparate impact or a disproportionate burden, RTD will
consider modifying the proposed service change. RTD will then analyze the modification and make sure it
removed the potential disparate impact or disproportionate burden. If a less discriminatory option cannot
be identified and RTD can demonstrate a substantial legitimate justification for the proposed service
change, the FTA will allow RTD to proceed with the proposed change.

Proposed Major Service Changes
Pursuant to the intent to provide cost effective demand responsive services, RTD has proposed many
service changes to take effect in January of 2015. Per the Major Service Change Policy, the proposed
major service changes subject to this analysis are listed below.
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride – Cancellation
The Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride began operating in November 2006 with the opening of the Southeast
Light Rail line. The Call-n-Ride operates weekday hours 6:00am – 6:00pm. Currently, weekday ridership
is at 2.1 passenger boardings per hour. Applicable service standards require a minimum of 3 boardings
per hour. Ridership has never attained a 3.0 boarding per hour since operations began in November
2008. This proposal calls for the discontinuance of the Call-n-Ride due to low ridership. Some alternative
service is available using the Routes 401, 402Ltd and 403.

Page 3
Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

ANALYSIS

2.12.E.c

Equity Analysis

Parker Call-n-Ride – Cancellation
The Parker Call-n-Ride began operating in November 2006 with the opening of the Southeast Light Rail
line. The Call-n-Ride operates weekdays 5:30am – 6:00pm. Currently weekday ridership is at 1.8
passenger boardings per hour. Applicable service standards require a minimum of 3 boardings per hour.
This proposal calls for the discontinuance of the Call-n-Ride due to low ridership. Some alternative service
is available using the Route 153.
Savings: Annual hours saved: 3,200, saving $183,312 (includes fuel).

Equity Analysis Methodology
As previously mentioned, the basic framework for analyzing service changes for equity involves the
comparison of affected populations. The manner in which these populations are identified and compared
is described below:
1. Assess the proposed service change for adverse effects (e.g. frequency decrease, shortlining,
etc…)
2. Obtain applicable population or ridership data (e.g. customer satisfaction survey, census data,
etc…)
3. Examine the proportions of adverse effects absorbed by minority and low-income populations.
The two proposed major service changes are cancellations of Call-n-Rides. Call-n-Ride is a demandresponse bus service. Patrons make a reservation for pick-up at any location within a predefined service
area and can then travel to any destination within that predefined service area. Typically, Call-n-Rides
have operated within multiple low-density, suburban neighborhoods that don’t have a ridership demand
high enough to justify fixed-route bus service.
Considering all customers traveling within the predefined service area can be impacted by these
changes, we’ve elected to utilize U.S. Census population data to assess the impacts absorbed by minority
and low-income populations. Table 2.1 depicts demographic data from the 2010 Census.

TABLE 2.1-SERVICE AREA DEMOGRAPHIC PROFILE

Total
Percent
Households
Popula on Minority
Percent
Total
Households
Low‐
of Service Popula on Minority Households
Low‐
Income
Area
income
2,657,706

583,007

22%

1,032,379

289,089

28%

Page 4
Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Savings: Annual hours saved: 3,072 hours, saving $175,342 (includes fuel).

2.12.E.c

As stated in the Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden policies, minority and low-income
populations should not be subjected to adverse effects that are at a rate greater than or equal to 10%
more than non-minority and non-low-income populations. Based on this demographic profile, we find that
a service change affecting minority populations at a rate greater than or equal to 32% (22% + 10%)
would be considered a disparate impact. We also find that service changes affecting low-income
populations at a rate greater than or equal to 38% (28% + 10%) would be considered a
disproportionate burden. Accordingly, through Tables 2.2 and 2.3, we will examine the two services in
question, the nature of the service changes and rate at which minority and low-income populations are
impacted. We also utilized Geographic Information Systems (GIS) maps to examine the demographic
data as well (see Appendix A).
TABLE 2.2 IMPACTED MINORITY POPULATION

Route

Change Type

Total Population
Affected Census
Tracts

Highlands Ranch
Parker

Discontinue
Discontinue

52,183
18,753

Total Minority
Population
Affected Census
Tracts

Percent
Minority

Data Type
Used

5,959
1,683

11%
9%

Polygon
Polygon

TABLE 2.3 IMPACTED LOW-INCOME POPULATIONS

Route

Change Type

Total
Households
Affected Census
Tracts

Total Low‐Income
Households
Affected Census
Tracts

Percent
Households
Low‐income

Data Type
Used

Highlands Ranch

Discontinue

18,787

1,656

9%

Polygon

Parker

Discontinue

6,920

914

13%

Polygon

CONCLUSION
As mentioned previously, our primary objective within this analysis is to examine proposed major service
changes to ensure minority and low-income populations would not disproportionately absorb adverse
effects. The Census demographic data shows the Highlands Ranch and Parker Call-n-Ride service areas
have percentages of minority and low-income populations well under the applicable policy thresholds of
the disparate impact (32% minority) and disproportionate burden (38% low-income) policies. Therefore
neither disparate impact nor a disproportionate burden was identified and the proposed service changes
do not require revision.

Page 5
Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

Equity Analysis

Appendix A
GIS MAPS

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

2.12.E.c

Equity Analysis

Page 6

Packet Pg. 53

2.12.E.c

Un
iv
Hi
gh

lan
ds

Ra

n ch

er
si

Quebec

Broadw

ay

70
4
C

ty

P kw
y

Lincoln

Wildcat

Jan15 Service Discontinuance
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride

Service Development Division
September 26, 2014

Reserv

eP

kw

Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride

y

Low Income Household Density Per Census Tract

°

40.1 - 60%

<1 - 20%

60.1 - 80%

20.1 - 40%

80.1 - 100%

Miles
0

0.5

1
Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

County Line

2.12.E.c

Un
iv
Hi
gh

lan
ds

Ra

n ch

er
si

ty

Quebec

Broadw

ay

70
4
C

P kw
y

Lincoln

Wildcat

Jan15 Service Discontinuance
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride

Reserv

eP

kw

Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride

y

°

Minority Population Density Per Census Tract
3 - 14.7%
14.71 - 27.3%

Miles

27.31 - 43.79%
Service Development Division
September 29, 2014

43.791 - 73.4%

0

0.5

1
Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

County Line

2.12.E.c

0

c
Lin

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

E

47

oln

Mainstree

t

Parker
Hillto

Jan15 Service Discontinuance
Parker Call-n-Ride

p

Parker Call-n-Ride
Low Income Household Density Per Census Tract
<1 - 20%

°

20.1 - 40%
40.1 - 60%

Miles

60.1 - 80%
Service Development Division
September 26, 2014

80.1 - 100%

0

0.5

1

Packet Pg. 56

2.12.E.c

0

c
Lin

Attachment: Attach C January 2015 Service Changes - Service Equity Analysis (with maps v 3) (2112 : January 2015 Service Changes)

E

47

oln

Mainstree

t

Parker
Hillto

Jan15 Service Discontinuance
Parker Call-n-Ride

p

Parker Call-n-Ride
Minority Population Density Per Census Tract

°

3 - 14.7%
14.71 - 27.3%
27.31 - 43.79%
Service Development Division
September 26, 2014

Miles

43.791 - 73.4%

0

0.5

1

Packet Pg. 57

2.12.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2014

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 1, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

Approval of Budget Transfer for North Metro
Sidings

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
transfer of $16 million from FasTracks Railroad Right of Way budget to a project to construct additional
track sidings (see attached) on the North Metro Rail Line (NMRL). These sidings will improve system
reliability on the entire RTD commuter rail network. They provide for a more robust, reliable operation
on the current North Metro segment to 124th Avenue and facilitate the future construction of the
remaining segment to 162nd Avenue. Funding for the FasTracks Railroad Right of Way Budget is
included in the 2014 Amended Budget for the FasTracks capital program.
BACKGROUND
Implementation of this action would advance the 2015 RTD strategic goals of: (1) advancing/completing
FasTracks; and (2) improve service delivery. One of the major challenges of FasTracks has been securing
railroad right-of-way at a cost consistent with our budget. Many challenges and unforeseen costs have
occurred. In response to these challenges, the FasTracks program had set up a Railroad Right of Way
budget of $16 million to address risks in this area. This is a programwide element and not assigned to
any specific FasTracks project
Through prudent management of this area, our projects have been able to address these railroad issues
within their project budgets and contingency. Our FasTracks projects, most of which have a high level
of interface with the railroads, are now far enough along that we are projecting that these issues can be
addressed within the project budgets without needing to use this programwide $16 million Railroad Right
of Way account.
DISCUSSION
The North Metro Rail Line is designed as a single track railroad with passing sidings. Trains in opposite
directions are scheduled to meet on these passing sidings. This can work well as long as trains operate
exactly on time with no disruptions.
However, train operations are subject to a number of factors that can cause delays including equipment
breakdowns, inclement weather, passenger boarding/medical emergency issues, power problems, etc. A
delayed train will cause the train in the opposite direction to wait at the end of a siding until it clears the
single track section. Once a delay begins, it may ripple through the scheduled service for hours,
affecting customers on other RTD trains as well as the delayed train(s). Single-track operations increase
the pressure on the operating entity to turn trains promptly at terminals within tight schedule windows;
this may require additional staff members (hostlers) to be added so that trains can run on time.
Updated computer simulations of train operations for North Metro were performed incorporating the
latest information about the alignment, performance of the Hyundai Rotem commuter rail vehicles and
positive train control (PTC). The updated simulations have shown that small delays or disruptions can
compound to create significant delays. This could lead to an inherently unreliable operation that would

Packet Pg. 58

2.12.F

not meet ridership expectations or result in a longer headway that provides less service. Providing
additional sidings (or reducing the length of single track) gives trains more opportunities to pass each
other without waiting, even if one train is delayed.
Delays on the NMRL can also affect the entire commuter rail network as these trains interface with
trains from the East, Gold and Northwest Rail at Denver Union Station.
In addition, installing these sidings now would facilitate the ultimate goal of construction of the entire
NMRL to 162nd Avenue. Waiting to install these sidings until later when the line is in service would be
significantly more expensive than now when the project is under construction.
RTD has previously launched enabling works on this corridor (maintenance facility expansion, double
tracking, and electrification modifications) in a similar manner before full construction was funded.
These board decisions to proceed with early enabling works were critical in RTD being able to afford the
current project to 124th Avenue.
The work on these sidings would incorporate design, trackwork, special trackwork (turnouts/crossovers),
signaling (including positive train control), electrification and communications. The work would be
performed by the Regional Rail Partners (RRP) contractor who is the design-builder for this corridor.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The work will be funded by a transfer of $16 million from the FasTracks Railroad Right of Way budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
transfer of $16 million from FasTracks Railroad Right of Way Budget to a project to construct
additional track sidings (see attached) on the North Metro Rail Line (NMRL). These sidings will
improve system reliability on the entire RTD commuter rail network. They provide for a more robust,
reliable operation on the current North Metro segment to 124th Avenue and facilitate the future
construction of the remaining segment to 162nd Avenue. Funding for the FasTracks Railroad Right of
Way Budget is included in the 2014 Amended Budget for the FasTracks capital program.
2. Do not accept the recommendation and do not construct the additional sidings.
recommended as it could lead to an unreliable operation or longer headways on NMRL.

This is not

3. Do not accept the recommendation and use the $16 million for other, unbuilt FasTracks corridors.
This is not recommended as it could lead to an unreliable operation or longer headways on NMRL and
would not be sufficient to fund any other segment on FasTracks.
ATTACHMENTS:


northmetro track schematic

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Richard Clarke, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 59

2.12.F

Packet Pg. 60

North Metro Track Schematic
September 2014

TK3

72ND AVE

STOCKSHOW

UNION
STATION

88TH AVE

104TH AVE

112TH AVE

124TH AVE

TK2
TK1
Eas
tC

* NOT TO SCALE

orr
ido
r

LEGENDS
Current North Metro Design
Additional North Metro Track Sidings
East Corridor

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: northmetro track schematic (2091 : Approval of Budget Transfer for North Metro Sidings)

2.12.F.a

2.12.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 15, 2014

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 15, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

Request for Increase to ACS Smart Contract
(Howerter/McMurphy)

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager or his designee to increase the Xerox Transport Solutions contract notto-exceed amount by $2,349,912 to a new contract amount not to exceed $19,731,382.
BACKGROUND and DISCUSSION
Smart Media System changes will be required in order to configure the system to utilize RTD’s new fare
structure that will be a result of the Fare Study currently under way. In addition, changes to the public
facing web portal are required so as to create a web portal that is easy to use and navigate by RTD’s
customers. Once the web portal changes are made, RTD needs to ensure that all pages and functionality
of the portal are ADA compliant so that persons with disabilities can easily navigate the web portal.
In Q3-2015, RTD will begin issuing Stored Value Cards, which in essence are debit cards for use on the
RTD system. Because some cards will be purchased via the Smart Card Web Portal, RTD needs to be
very confident that the highest levels of cyber security have been implemented on our system to protect
credit card and personal information. This is the first time that RTD has undertaken this type of payment
vehicle that is open to the public. Xerox will be working closely with RTD to ensure that the web portal
and back-end systems meet the high standards of RTD’s Cyber Security requirements.
With the 2016 opening of the new rail lines, approximately 140 new platform validators will be installed,
along with the 138 platform validators already in operation. An increased inventory of spare parts will
need to be on hand and managed in order to expedite and correct any hardware issues that may be
encountered on our light rail platforms. The spare parts must come from Xerox the company from which
RTD purchases the platform validators currently in use.
Based on these considerations, additional funds are needed to facilitate enhanced security, web portal
enhancements, additional cards, nine SMV installations on SE, additional APOS units, file compression
and recharge selection software, and ADA Compliance enhancements, as well as the creation of a
validator spare parts inventory.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for these additional SMT Program Activities will be provided via the Unrestricted Funds Balance.
ALTERNATIVES
1) Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to
issue a change order to Xerox, Inc. to a new contract amount not to exceed $19,731,382.

Packet Pg. 62

2.12.G

2) Do not accept the Recommended Action. The SMT Web Portal may be at a higher risk due to the
lack of enhanced security. The web portal may also be unusable by some constituents due to its
lack of accessibility to those with disabilities. Spare parts to fix the platform validators would
eventually become unusable and/or unavailable. Without the Services of Xerox, the Smart Media
system changes required as a result of the Fare Study may not be timely implemented.
ATTACHMENTS:


DOA(PDF)

Prepared by:
Judy McMurphy, IT Program Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 63

Packet Pg. 64

2.12.G.a

Attachment: DOA (2103 : Request for Increase to ACS SmartCard Contract)

2.12.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 15, 2014

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 15, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

2015
Salaried
(Howerter/Sprague)

Benefit

Plans

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the 2015 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorize the General Manager or his designee to
enter into agreements with the Insurance Carriers.
BACKGROUND
Annually the staff brings the proposed Salaried Employee Benefits plan for approval to the Board of
Directors. Approval of the plan by the Board establishes the rates for Open Enrollment and provides
costs for the 2015 Budget. The Open Enrollment period for salaried staff begins November 16 through
December 1, 2014.
DISCUSSION
The goals for the 2015 plan year are: 1) Achieve the 2015 budget goals, 2) Continued focus on
containing cost and emphasis on improving health and wellness consumerism, 3) Maintain market
competitiveness, and 4) Insure compliance with PPACA – Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(Health Care Reform provisions as applicable to RTD).
Following is a summary of the modest changes for the 2015 plan year.
Medical
- Cigna administers two self-funded plans on behalf of RTD. Both the PPO Plan and the HDHP (High
Deductible Health Plan) Plan have a specific individual $150,000 stop-loss ceiling in 2015. The
administrative cost will increase by 10% in 2015. The Cigna Plans are expected to have
approximately 460 employees enrolled. 2014 claims are running 10% above expected claims YTD
and 2015 claims are currently projected to be slightly higher than 2014 levels.
-

Kaiser provides 3 Plan Options: a fully insured HMO; a DHMO (HMO Plan with deductibles), and an
HDHP. The Kaiser plans are expected to have approximately 200 employees enrolled. This plan has
proposed a 5% blended increase over 2014 and Kaiser has requested removing the HMO (High Plan)
due to low enrollment (10 people).

-

Cost-sharing, the employee contributions for the plan, will be increased for employees by 10%.

Dental
- No carrier/plan changes and a 1% renewal rate increase, with a two-year Administrative rate
guarantee through 2016. Delta is a self-funded plan and has projected a 5% increase in expected
claims exposure.
Life & Disability
- The rate guarantee with Lincoln National expired and an RFP was conducted. It is recommended that

Packet Pg. 65

2.12.H

the Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability, Accidental Death & Dismemberment, and Voluntary
Insurance be moved from Lincoln to Cigna. This move results in a reduction in annual premiums of
12% or approximately $55,000.
Vision/Business Travel Accident
- Vision Plan is currently a fully insured plan with Anthem Blue Cross – Blue Shield. Based on
utilization, Anthem has proposed an 8% renewal increase. There are no carrier/plan changes and no
costs increase with the Business Travel Accident Plan.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2015 planned Salaried Employee Insured Benefit budget is projected to be an 8% increase over
2014 projected benefit costs. RTD’s current utilization and projections are slightly below the medical
trend of 10%. With the additional costs associated with the Affordable Care Act, the overall benefit
budget increase is projected to be 8.4% over 2014.
The major cost impacts in 2015 are due to Cigna Plan increases of 10%. The net additional benefit
costs anticipated in 2014 are essentially flat. This is the fifth year we have achieved strong cost
containment as a result of our shift in carriers, plan offerings, plan design and funding models.
The 2014 estimate of the Salaried Employee Insured Benefits is $9,699,223. The projected increase of
8.4% results in an increase of $812,341 or a total projected cost of $10,511,564 in 2015. The increase
meets the projected costs in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). RTD’s benefit costs are at or below the
average for Metro area companies, which are experiencing 8-15% cost increases according to the
Denver Chamber of Commerce.
Increase/Decrea
% of
Plan Type
2014 Premium 2015 Premium
se (+/-)
Increase
Cigna
$
6,506,548 $
7,182,173 $
675,625
10%
Kaiser
$
1,996,886 $
2,105,748 $
108,862
5%
Delta
$
647,071 $
652,317 $
5,246
1%
Anthem
$
69,756 $
75,335 $
5,579
8%
Life Products
$
476,712 $
421,491 $
(55,221)
-12%
Sub Total
$
9,696,973 $
10,437,064 $
740,091
8%
ACA Fees (PCORI)
$
2,250 $
4,500 $
2,250
100%
ACA Fees-(TRI)
$
$
70,000 $
70,000
0%
Total Incr / (Decr) over
Last Year
$
9,699,223 $
10,511,564 $
812,341
8.4%
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2015 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorize the General Manager
or his designee to enter into agreements with the Insurance Carriers.
2.

Further modify the salaried employee benefit plans to be offered in 2015. This is not
recommended since it would require additional negotiations with benefit providers and delay the
employee enrollment period.

3.

Do not approve the recommended salaried employee benefit plans. This is not recommended, as
this will result in the Agency being unable to provide competitive and cost effective benefit plans
to the salaried employees.

Packet Pg. 66

2.12.H

Prepared by: Cherie Sprague, Senior Human Resources Manager
ATTACHMENTS:


DOA(PDF)

Prepared by:
Cherie Sprague, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 67

Packet Pg. 68

2.12.H.a

Attachment: DOA (2102 : 2015 Salaried Benefit Plans)

2.12.I

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 15, 2014

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 15, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

Certification of the 2015 contribution for the
RTD Salaried Employees' Retirement Plans
(Howerter)

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
certifies a 2015 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB
Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD
Board of Directors certifies a 2015 contribution to the Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan
Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment, at
a percent of each participant’s eligible compensation.
BACKGROUND
In December, 2007, the RTD Board of Directors closed the DB Plan to new employees with new
employees hired on January 1, 2008 and later participating in the DC Plan. From January 1, 2008 to
December 31, 2012 both the DB and DC Plan had been funded on a 9 percent of salaries basis.
DISCUSSION
DB Plan
In 2012 the Board of Directors agreed that beginning in 2013, annual contributions to the DB Plan would
be made at a fixed annual amount of $3.1 million rather than as a percentage of salaries as a result of
the actuary’s recommendation at that time. The recommended fixed annual contribution of $3.1 million
to the DB Plan was determined by the plan’s actuaries to be the annual contribution necessary to
maintain a “fully funded” status for the plan in the future. The actuaries have updated the DB Plan
projections to reflect the final 1/1/2014 valuation assumptions for the DB Plan. The 2014 Actuary
Recommended Contribution is expected to exceed the $3.1 million fixed annual contribution amount
through the 2019 Fiscal Year and fall below the fixed annual contribution amount thereafter. The DB
Plan is projected to reach 100% funding in 2028 assuming that the $3.1 million contribution were to
continue after the actuary’s recommendation drops below the $3.1 million fixed contribution if all other
actuarial assumptions are met each year. The Plan remains on target to achieve this goal.
As stated above an actuarial evaluation of the DB Plan is completed annually to monitor the funding
status of the plan. The actual 2015 Actuary Recommend Contribution is $5.7 million based on current
projections. Should the Board approve contributing a higher amount to the DB Plan and continue to fund
at the amount calculated to be the Actuary Recommended Contribution the DB Plan would be fully
funded in 2024.
In summary, the Board could continue to approve a fixed contribution amount of $3.1 million and be
fully funded in 2028 or fund the DB Plan at the Actuary Recommended Contribution amount of $5.7
million and be fully funded in 2024.

Packet Pg. 69

2.12.I

DC Plan
Section 4.1 of the RTD Salaried Employees’ DC Plan adopted by the RTD Board provides that the
Employer may, at its sole discretion, set a contribution rate between 7 to 9% per year for participants.
The contribution rate has been 9% each year to the DC Plan from 2008 through 2014.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Below is a summary of the current and recommended DB Plan and DC Plan funding scenarios:
Salaried DB Plan
% of Salaries
-

2015 Projected
$ 3,100,000

2014 Projected
$ 3,100,000

Change
$

-

Salaried DC Plan
1

% of Salaries
9.0%
8.0%
7.0%

2015 Projected
$ 2,382,420
2,117,707
1,852,994

2014 Projected
$ 2,313,029
2,056,026
1,799,023

$

Change
69,391
61,681
53,971

Recommended

1

The assumed contributions indicate the different amounts that would be required to fund the plan at
9%, 8% and 7% of eligible salaries in 2015.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2015 contribution to RTD’s Salaried
Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust at the recommended amount of $3.1 million and
Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust rate at 9% of each participant’s eligible
compensation as planned in the SBP.
2.

The RTD Board of Directors could certify an amount to be contributed to the RTD Salaried
Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust or the RTD Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution
Plan Trust at amounts other than $3.1 million and 9% respectively.

3.

Do not authorize a contribution to the RTD Salaried Employees’ Pension Plans. This is not
recommended because the DB Plan’s funding status would deteriorate and the liability would
increase.

ATTACHMENTS:


DOA(PDF)

Prepared by:
Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 70

2.12.I

Packet Pg. 71

Packet Pg. 72

2.12.I.a

Attachment: DOA (2104 : Certification of the 2015 contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees'

2.12.J

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 15, 2014

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 15, 2014

Board Meeting Date: October 28, 2014

Subject:

Proposed 2015 Fiscal
(Howerter/Scarpino)

Policy

Statement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approves and adopts the 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement.
BACKGROUND
Proposed modifications to the Fiscal Policy Statement (the “Policy”) are brought to the Board of
Directors for approval during the year, as necessary. In addition, each year staff presents the
proposed Policy for the upcoming fiscal year for approval to the Board of Directors as an initial step
in development of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and Recommended Budget.
The most recent modification to the Policy was approved by the Board of Directors in October 2013
for the 2014 fiscal year. Those changes primarily related to clarifying that the Strategic Budget Plan
includes the current practice of including fare adjustments every three years to account for inflation
and that the Board at its discretion may consider potential fare adjustments annually at the time of
the development of the SBP. The Policy Statement was also updated with the most recent rating
agency credit ratings at the time.
DISCUSSION
For 2015, the following changes are proposed.
Fund Balance Policies #1 is amended to read as follows: “RTD will strive to maintain a fund balance
in the Base System and in the FasTracks operating budget, to provide for unanticipated expenditures
of a nonrecurring nature, to meet unexpected increases in costs or to mitigate service disruptions as
a result of economic downturns affecting revenue.”
Under Budget Policies #1 it is stated that the budget is prepared using Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles with certain exceptions, to which is added the “exclusion of the non-cash
portion of long-term unfunded pension accruals.” This is to reflect the appropriation of only the cash
outlay of the pension obligation.
The Policy Statement is updated with the most recent rating agency credit ratings in effect at this
date.
All other proposed changes to the Policy Statement are primarily wording clarification and are
reflected in the attachment.
Please see the attachment for the full proposed document with changes indicated.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Adopting the Fiscal Policy Statement as requested will not have a financial impact on the 2015
Recommended Budget.

Packet Pg. 73

2.12.J

ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the recommended changes to RTD’s 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement. Staff supports
this alternative because the Policy Statement documents the policies to be adhered to in 2015
and provides clarification of certain practices.
2. Board further modifies the recommended changes. Staff reviewed the fiscal policies and
welcomes any suggestions for modifications requested by the Board of Directors.
3. Do not adopt the RTD 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement. This is not recommended because
RTD’s Fiscal Policy Statement would not contain all current language, would not adhere to
best practices, and would not best facilitate the needs of RTD’s financial operations.
ATTACHMENTS:


2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line



DOA(PDF)

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Jannette Scarpino, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 74

2.12.J.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 28, 2014

Attachment: 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2015 FISCAL POLICY STATEMENT

REVENUE POLICIES
1. Staff will plan fare adjustments every 3 years in the mid and long-term budgets to
adjust for inflation. The Board of Directors may consider potential fare adjustments
annually at the time of the development of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). As
part of this process, staff will review potential fare increases adjustments to
establish a fare structure with due consideration for:
 consistency and equity throughout RTD;
 ease of use and simplicity;
 maintaining or increasing ridership and fare revenues;
 acceptability and marketability of fare structure to customers and the general
public; and
 verification and enforceability of fare payment compliance.
2. Fare policies will take into account the special needs of transit dependent, elderly,
youth, student, handicapped, and commuter patrons.
3. RTD will avoid dependence on temporary revenues to fund ongoing services. Onetime revenues will be used for one-time expenditures.
4. RTD will continuously explore additional sources of revenue to help balance the
budget.
5. When appropriate the Board will actively pursue legislation that would help ensure
the continued accomplishment of RTD’s goals and mission statement. The Board
will support efforts to ensure that legislative intent is realized in allocation of state
financial resources to public transit. The Board will actively oppose legislation that
would limit or diminish revenue.
6. Staff will identify on an annual basis excess property and equipment, and will
make an ongoing attempt to sell such excess property and equipment to enhance
cash flow.

1

Packet Pg. 75

2.12.J.a

Attachment: 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 28, 2014

INVESTMENT POLICIES
1. RTD will review its investment policy annually with the Board to ensure
consistency with the following objectives (in order of priority):
 safety of invested funds;
 maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow needs; and
 attainment of the maximum yield possible consistent with the first two
objectives
2. RTD will review its investment performance on a quarterly basis with the Board.

EXPENDITURE POLICIES
1. RTD will endeavor to achieve service levels that will make the transit system easier
to use, improve travel times, and be more effective.
2. RTD will continue to look for and implement the most cost-effective and reliable
methods of delivering transportation services.
3. RTD will maintain all assets at a level that protects capital investment and
minimizes future maintenance and replacement costs.
4. RTD maintains a risk management program which will provide protection against
loss and mitigate exposure to liability.
5. A safety program will be maintained to minimize RTD's exposure to liability and
thereby reduce the number of claims against RTD.
6. RTD will develop service changes that are needed to respond to budget shortfalls
using the system-wide and route-specific productivity measures that have been
approved by the Board.

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT POLICIES
1. RTD will prepare and update annually a six-year Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
including projected capital construction and improvements, service levels and
2

Packet Pg. 76

2.12.J.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 28, 2014

Attachment: 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)

operating costs, and revenues to fund the capital and operating programs. Capital
projects to be included in the SBP will be evaluated using the following criteria:
 total project cost (design and construction) and schedule for completion;
 source of funding;
 operating and maintenance costs for the remainder of the SBP period;
 benefits and contributions to RTD and the community, including but not limited
to the effect on future operating and maintenance costs, economy, service, and
ridership;
 consideration of alternatives (joint development, etc.); consequences of not
funding; and
 RTD mission statement elements.
2. Priority will be given to replacement of existing assets before consideration of new
assets except as allowed for in the FasTracks financial plan (see 7.).
3. RTD will use the first year capital program from the adopted SBP as the basis for
the capital program to be included in the annual budget.
4. After completion of design of a capital project, cost estimates will be revised. If
the cost estimates exceed Delegation of Authority limits, the project will be
brought to the Board for reconsideration.
5. Facilities will be designed using current technology and allow for future
technological changes in order to be efficient and cost-effective and to protect the
public welfare.
6. RTD shall allow for multi-year capital projects to be carried forward in accordance
with the carry-forward resolution adopted by the Board.
7. RTD will prepare an annual update of the FasTracks financial plan incorporating the
actual costs incurred and the most recent available projections of capital
improvement costs, service levels, and operating costs and revenues to fund the
FasTracks capital and operating programs.

FUND BALANCE POLICIES
1. RTD will strive to maintain a fund balance in the Base System and in the FasTracks
operating budget, to provide for unanticipated expenditures of a nonrecurring
nature, or to meet unexpected increases in costs or to mitigate service disruptions
as a result of economic downturns affecting revenue. This unrestricted fund
balance will be comprised of a Board appropriated fund, a capital replacement fund
and an undesignated working capital fund as described below. For the Base
3

Packet Pg. 77

2.12.J.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 28, 2014

Attachment: 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)

System, the total of these three funds should be maintained at an amount
approximately equal to three months of Base System operating expenses excluding
depreciation. For FasTracks, the total of these three funds should be maintained at
an amount approximately equal to two months of FasTracks operating expenses
excluding depreciation. RTD will consider and pursue resources that will be
directed to fund balance replenishment. For example, RTD may define the revenue
sources that would typically be looked to for replenishment of fund balance to
include non-recurring revenues and budget surpluses. Year-end surpluses are an
especially appropriate source for replenishing fund balance.
RTD will replenish fund balances as soon as economic conditions allow.
2. In accordance with the adopted budget, RTD will designate a Board appropriated
fund balance on an annual basis. Use of the fund balance will be minimized and
occur only in specific circumstances such as severe economic downturns. With
Board approval, these funds may be used to avoid cash flow interruptions, reduce
the need for short-term borrowing, and assist in maintaining an investment-grade
bond rating. The source of replenishment of this fund will be identified and will
take place in a prompt manner.
3. In accordance with the adopted budget, RTD will designate a capital replacement
fund on an annual basis. With Board approval, these funds will be used for
scheduled major vehicle replacements and other capital purchases. The source of
replenishment of this fund will be identified and will take place in a prompt manner.
4. RTD will designate excess and undesignated working capital that may accrue at
each year-end to be placed in an unrestricted fund to be used to respond to
unanticipated events.
5. RTD will maintain an emergency (TABOR) reserve equal to three percent of nonFederal revenues, as specified by Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado
Constitution.
6. The Board shall establish three reserves for future construction under the
FasTracks plan:
 The FasTracks Contingency Reserve will be appropriated at a level of $30
million each year. These funds will be available to fund adjustments to the
FasTracks construction schedule, relating to logistics or cost savings
opportunities that might arise after the annual budget is adopted, and will not
be used to fund the (non-FasTracks) Base System capital or operating activity.
 The FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) will be used to provide funding
for future FasTracks projects that are currently unfunded. Expenditures from
the FISA will be subject to Board approval with the staff recommended project
4

Packet Pg. 78

2.12.J.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 28, 2014

Attachment: 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)



goals identified in the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM). Funding of the FISA will be
provided from the sources identified in the Board approved RAM and other
sources approved by the Board.
All other FasTracks funds which have not been appropriated, or otherwise
designated as reserved, in the current budget year will be maintained in a
reserve for future FasTracks capital and operating expenditures and will not be
used to fund the (non-FasTracks) Base System expenditures.

DEBT POLICIES
1. Capital projects funded through the issuance of bonds, Certificates of Participation
(COPs) or other financial obligations shall be financed for a period not to exceed
the expected useful life of the asset.
2. Effective communication with credit rating agencies will be maintained, and a
policy of full disclosure on every financial report and official statement will be
followed.
3. Before long-term debt is issued, the impact of debt service on total annual
expenditures will be analyzed.
4. Debt financing will not be issued to support current operating expenditures.
It is the intent of RTD to maintain a high quality investment-grade credit rating. The
benefit of maintaining RTD's credit ratings at the highest reasonably attainable
level in light of current economic conditions and availability of capital funding is to
receive lower interest rates and lower debt insurance premiums than would be
possible with lower credit ratings. RTD’s current ratings are listed below:
Classification
Standard
and Poor’s
Moody’s
Investors
Service
Fitch Ratings

Senior
Bonds
(0.6%)

FasTracks
Bonds
(0.4%)

Certificates
of
Participation

AAA

AA+

A

Aa2

Aa2

Aa3

AA+

AA

A

5. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond coverage ratio for the
Base System (annual non-FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual sales and
5

Packet Pg. 79

2.12.J.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 28, 2014

Attachment: 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)

use tax debt service for senior non-FasTracks debt) of four times for debt backed
by the 0.6% sales and use tax. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax
revenue bond coverage ratio for FasTracks (annual FasTracks sales and use tax
revenue to annual FasTracks sales and use tax debt service) of two times for debt
backed by the 0.4% FasTracks sales and use tax.
6. RTD will maintain a minimum net revenue coverage ratio (all annual revenues
remaining after operating and maintenance expenses, net of passthrough grants, to
annual debt service requirements net of excess appropriations required for variable
rate debt) of 1.2 times total annual debt service.

BUDGET POLICIES
1. RTD shall comply with all requirements of the Colorado Local Government Budget
Law.
2. The budget will be prepared on a program/project basis.
3. As part of the budget development process, the Board will review the current
goals, objectives, and performance indicators for use in preparing the budget for
the following year. The Board will adopt the final performance indicators before
the adoption of the annual budget.
4. The Board will review the adopted fiscal policies annually or on an as-needed basis
and to consider any changes that may be necessary.
5. There shall be a budgetary monitoring system that charges expenditures against
approved budget appropriations.
6. The budget shall be summarized for adoption purposes.
adoption shall be determined by the Board.

The actual level of

7. The budget shall be prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles with
the following exceptions:
 inclusion of capital outlays and debt principal payments as expenditures;
 inclusion of asset sale proceeds and debt issuance proceeds
 exclusion of gains and losses on disposition of property and equipment
 exclusion of the non-cash portion of long-term unfunded pension accruals.

Formatted: Normal, Indent: Left: 0.63",
Hanging: 0.25", No bullets or numbering

8. The budget document shall be submitted to the Government Finance Officers
Association annually for consideration for the Distinguished Budget Presentation
6

Packet Pg. 80

2.12.J.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 28, 2014

Attachment: 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Award, which evaluates the document as a communications device, financial plan,
operations guide, and policy document.
9. Quarterly performance reports will be presented to the Board of Directors to assess
RTD's performance on the adopted performance indicators.
10. A balanced budget in which beginning reserves plus total anticipated revenues is
greater than or equal to expenditures will be prepared.
11. Budgetary procedures that fund current expenditures at the expense of future
needs, such as postponing preventive maintenance expenditures or replacement of
equipment, will be avoided.
12. RTD will provide conservative revenue estimates that take into consideration
recent experience and reflect reasonable future growth.
13. RTD will monitor revenue sources regularly and amend the budget, as necessary,
to reflect the most current information available. RTD will also change the level of
expenditures, as needed, to maintain a balanced budget.
14. RTD will project revenues for at least six years and will update the projections
annually as part of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). Each existing and potential
revenue source will be reexamined annually.
15. As part of the SBP, RTD also will prepare a six-year operating expenditure plan
that includes projections of annual service growth plus allowances for operating
costs of new capital assets.
16. A budget will be prepared that contains essential programs and projects needed
to support the goals and objectives of RTD, responds to citizen demand, and
reflects administrative evaluation of current needs.

ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING POLICIES
1. The accounting system will maintain records on a basis consistent with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles for local governmentsenterprise funds.
2. The accounts of RTD will be reported using the accrual basis of accounting.
Revenues will be recognized when earned and expenses will be recognized when
incurred.
7

Packet Pg. 81

2.12.J.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 28, 2014

Attachment: 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement Red-Line (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)

3. RTD will establish and maintain a high standard of accounting practices to conform
with uniform financial reporting in Colorado.
4. An independent firm of certified public accountants will perform an annual financial
and grant compliance audit and will issue an opinion that will be incorporated into
the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
5. RTD will submit the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to the Government
Finance Officers Association for consideration for the Certificate of Excellence in
Financial Reporting.
6. The accounting system will record investment activity.
7. Internal control policies will be developed and maintained to include procedures
that separate control of assets from accounting for those assets.
8. RTD will identify and account for all revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities
related to the FasTracks capital and operating program separately from the Base
System operations.
9. A monthly financial status report shall be submitted to the Board.

GRANT POLICIES
1. All potential grants shall be carefully examined for matching requirements (both
dollar and level-of-effort matches).
2. Intergovernmental assistance shall be used to finance only those capital
improvements that are consistent with the capital improvement plan and RTD
priorities and in which operating and maintenance costs have been included in
operating budget forecasts.
3. RTD will program its federal grant funds to minimize the time between
appropriation and drawdown of federal funds.
4. RTD will use all eligible Section 5307 formula federal grant funds for capital
maintenance projects to minimize the time between appropriation and drawdown
of federal funds.

8

Packet Pg. 82

Packet Pg. 83

2.12.J.b

Attachment: DOA (2105 : Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement)

