Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on July 14, 2009
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday, July 14, 2009 in Rooms R, T and D

****
Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Chair Brohl, Vice-Chair Chacon, Director Bagley, Director Christopher,
Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James, Director Kemp,
Director Pulliam, Director Tayer, Director Tobiassen

Director Busck, Director Martinez, Director McMullen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Martha Hecox, Dave Genova, Carolyn Conover, Terry
Howerter, Errol Stevens, Greg Yates, Daria Serna, Theresa Sedmak,
Lisa Fliam, Trent Ratcliff, Bill Porter, Brian Middleton, Rick Clarke,
Scott Roberts, Cal Shankster, Paula Perdue, Robert Merriman, Caitlin
Magee

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bruce Behncke (Veolia), Mark Wolfe
(Veolia)

Call to Order:

I.

*********************************
Vice-Chair Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:54 p.m. Director
Brohl arrived at 6:04 p.m.

Recommended Actions
a. Award of “Group 21” Contracted Fixed-Route Services
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to
enter into a contract for the provision of “Group 21” contracted fixed-route
transit services with Veolia Transportation Services, Inc. This contract is for
three years for an amount not to exceed $67,689,488 with two (2) one-year
options in the amount of $23,985,940 (option year 1) and $24,780,818
(option year 2), for a total five year amount not to exceed $116,456,246. In
addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on July 14, 2009
Page 2 of 5
estimated to be approximately $12,264,770 for the initial three year
contract term, $4,323,822 for option year 1, $4,459,836 for option year 2,
for a total of $21,048,428 for the five year period. This results in a total
contract amount not to exceed $79,954,258 for the initial three year
contract period and $137,504,674 for the five year period. This proposal
represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in
response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 19-DH-010 to provide “Group 21”
Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is
scheduled to be effective with implementation of Group 21 service effective
January 10, 2010.
Director Daly spoke of his concern that this isn’t much savings over having
RTD provide the work. Bruce Abel said the District does believe this is
worthwhile savings and the amount is most likely understated. Bruce Daly
spoke of his concern that this is a downward trend and we may be at a
place eventually where there are no savings over having RTD drivers provide
the service. Bruce Able pointed out that this contract is only a slight
increase in price over how much they currently charge. Director Daly was
disappointed not more contractors bid. Bruce Abel explained that First
Transit has bought Laidlaw, if First Transit won the contract they would
have 100% of the Contracted Services at RTD and they did not feel the
Board would approve them on that basis. MV Transportation did not feel
this was a good time to propose as the General Manager of RTD is getting
ready to transition to their company and they did not want any hint of
impropriety.
Director Tayer also spoke about only having one bidder on the contract and
asked for a report back on why the other obvious bidder did not bid. His
long term concern is that the organizations might pick among themselves.
Director Chacon asked for validation of the concerns of the bidders.
Motion:

Director Christopher made a motion to
forward this item onto the July 21, 2009
Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Kemp seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

b. North American Video (NAV), #38FH009 Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract
#38FH009 with North American Video (NAV) for CCTV installation and
upgrade services at light rail stations in the amount of $789,410.00 for a
new contract amount of $1,905,373.00. Funding for this contract is being
provided through a combination of security grant funding and RTD capital
funding in the 2009 budget.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on July 14, 2009
Page 3 of 5
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item onto the July 21, 2009 Board
Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on July 14, 2009
Page 4 of 5
II.

Parking Management Update – Errol Stevens reviewed the presentation that was
distributed to the Board by Dave Genova. There is a system wide decline in parking
usage that seems to be related to the economy and not the parking management
program. Parking is down overall by 13%. Parking is tied in with ridership,
especially on express and regional routes. Ridership on these routes has decreased in
the first quarter of 2009. Costs are running below projections and revenue is also
below projections. Usage levels have affected the reserved revenue. Preliminary
indications show a 70% increase in overall revenue. The trend is going in the right
direction.
Staff has looked at some revenue enhancement strategies that were
mentioned in the memo with the main one being to move the limit from 15 to 30
days. Director Brohl was concerned about creating a parking issue (lack of spaces)
if the 15 day limit is increased. Errol Stevens shared that there is capacity at every
facility. Director Tayer would like to see parallel statistics for the skyRide service.
Has skyRide service been impacted negatively by the parking management program.
Bruce Abel said we have been seeing decreases in skyRide ridership but this is
probably attributed more to the economic situation. Director Tayer would like a more
detailed analysis, does it correlate to ridership? How much is due to economy how
much is due to parking charge?
Director Daly spoke of his concern that the program is not making money. How long
will the parking contractor bear that loss? We are the victim of our success and
currently this is not a sustainable policy, we will have to wait to see how it goes
down the road. He was very concerned that people have gone back to driving
instead of paying for parking.
Director Brohl spoke about the DU station. Have there been any issues with students
parking there? Errol Stevens said that 85% of the parkers turn in validated tickets.
66% of parkers are out of District so there may be some parking issues there.
Barbara Brohl was also concerned that we are losing parkers. If the utilization gets
too low, maybe the program needs to change. Errol Stevens reminded the Committee
that the program is based on a 12 month plan and we are only three months into the
program. Director Pulliam said we need more time and date before we can
accurately evaluate the program. There is not enough data right now to make
changes. Director Bagley said that we should wait six months before changing the
15 day maximum stay to 30 days. Director Genova asked when the committee
would like the next update and the Committee requested six months for an update
(January 2010). Director Tayer wants to see improvements to the payment situation
as he is receiving numerous customer complaints about the parking kiosks. If there
are significant changes to the program’s numbers, the Board will get an earlier
update.

III.

Discussion of timeline for January 2010 Service Changes – Bruce Abel said that this
is an update for the board so they can be prepared for the upcoming schedule. Bill
Porter said the proposed changes will come to the September Operations Committee
and public hearings will be held the first week of October with full Board approval at
the October 2009 meeting. Service planning will be working with Finance to see
what the service changes may look like.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on July 14, 2009
Page 5 of 5
IV.

Cell Phone Policy – Greg Yates provided an update on the policy. The change that
Chair Brohl suggested regarding pagers being treated the same as other electronic
devices has been made and it will appear in the August Trailblazer.

V.

Other Matters – The First light rail vehicle is set to reach 1,000,000 mile and staff is
looking for a way to commemorate this.
Director Brohl thanked the access-a-Ride committee and said they have come a long
way in addressing the issues and thanked the Board as it was the Board’s attention
to this issue that has resulted in the turn around and she is comfortable in it being
removed as a monthly item from the agenda.
Bruce Abel spoke about the roll out with MDT and said that issues have been
identified and remedied.
Director James asked what the expected life of a light rail vehicle is. Cal Shankster
responded thirty years.

VI.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Operations and Customer Services
Committee will be August 11, 2009.

VII.

Adjourn to Financial Administration Committee – Hearing no objection, Vice -Chair
Chacon adjourned the meeting at 6:46 p.m.

