Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on January 10, 2012
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

January 11, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
January 10, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair James; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker and
Williams.
Directors Anderson and McMullen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover,
Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue,
Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Margaret Attencio, Kathy Cole – Colorado Department of Human
Services Division of Vocational Rehab, Julie Farrar – Colorado
Developmental Disabilities Council, Claudia Folska, and Stan Gronek –
ATU 1001.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 8:15 p.m.

Recommended Actions


Award of Three Year Contract to Synamon Systems (Network Security
Consultant)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to award a three year contract to Synamon Systems, an SBE firm, in the amount of
$456,000 to provide network security support. The contract is being brought to the

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on January 10, 2012
Page 2 of 2

Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series
of 1983.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at
the January 24, 2012 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on
Motion:
II.

Cohen

seconded

the

The Motion passed Unanimously.

November 2011 Monthly Financial Status Report
Terry Howerter explained that not much changed this month, but Doug MacLeod will
cover all of the numbers.
Doug MacLeod noted that the dashboard was all green, ridership is flat on a year to date
basis and fare revenue is ahead 11.4%. Sales and use tax actual figures for November
are $34,210,000. We’ve finished the year ahead of the Leeds School of Business
forecast.
Director Tayer asked if staff could do an analysis or comparison of our current
predictions as compared to prior years where we did not have the benefit of this expert
panel that we have been using. If our figures are more accurate it would be beneficial to
communicate that information to the public, demonstrating that we have more reliable
and accurate predictions of sales and use tax revenue. One of the major criticisms of
FasTracks is that we have overestimated our sales tax revenue.

III.

Other Matters
General Manager Washington explained that he wanted to prepare the Board for next
week. Next week, staff will present a very long and detailed presentation on the 2012
Annual Program Evaluation. Tonight’s handout is part of the presentation for the 17th.
Staff will go through the presentation corridor by corridor and indicate if costs have
increased or decreased and we will provide the Board with the new FasTracks figure.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – February 7, 2012

V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:29 p.m.

