Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 19, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
February 19, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Twelve (12) Board members were present at the time of roll call. Directors Busck, Quinlan and
Ruchman arrived after roll call.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were three retirees listed but only one, John Mitchel, Facilities Maintenance Technician,
was present. Assistant General Manager Genova introduced John as a steadfast, loyal
employee. John jokingly responded if he had gotten such positive reinforcement, he might
have stayed around longer. John thanked RTD.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
There was no one signed up for public participation. Cal Marsella explained that many of the
people were still at the Capitol with the hearings on eminent domain. He himself had provided
testimony and Marla Lien was still there to hear the outcome from this meeting. Twenty-five
people were signed up to speak. Jenny Barket would fill in at the Board meeting for Marla Lien.
It was suggested that perhaps later, the Chair could re-open for public participation.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes or comments to the Committee reports.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF January 22, 2008
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the January 22, 2008
regular board meeting minutes.
Director Chacon seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Christopher requested that the attendance list is updated
to reflect his presence at the Board meeting on 1/22/08.
Director Martinez indicated that Director Tayer was listed twice.

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor and an

affirmative manual vote with 1 vote in favor (Brohl, Busck,
Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors
Quinlan and Ruchman still had not arrived.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.
VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Meeting with Longmont Mayor, Former Mayor, Council Member, and City Manager on
FasTracks and other issues
Cal Marsella and Chair Kemp hosted a meeting with the Mayor, former Mayor, Council
Member and City Manager of Longmont where Cal Marsella provided an update on
FasTracks. Periodic updates will be provided and RTD Board members are invited to
attend.
2. Trip to Washington
The trip to Washington, D.C. focused on three projects:
A.
DUS-$42 million—received word that this was in an idle file and a new category
that was up for reprogramming. This is not in RTD’s interest so a request was
made to the Colorado delegates to work this issue in support of RTD. RTD will
follow up with a letter to protect these funds. All delegations agreed to work with
us as this is a cornerstone of the DUS letter of intent and funding plan.
B.
FFGA,West Corridor—RTD meets our cross-effectiveness index. RTD has received
$60M authorization in President’s budget this year so all systems are go and we are
moving ahead.
C.
PPP, Gold and East Corridor—purpose of this meeting was to educate the delegates
about PPP. We enjoy our position of being one of the last standing selectees for the
PPP program and met with Sherrie Little, Deputy Director of the Federal Grant
Administration. RTD is following up for request for additional information and will
need to remain close and do a number of these follow-ups. RTD is looking for north
of $800M in Federal funding so it is important that we stay in the loop and keep the
respective parties advised.
3. Meeting with representatives of Kacey Fine Furniture
Cal Marsella met with representatives of Kacey Fine Furniture. This is a unique property in
that Kacey is using about 20 feet of RTD property for parking. RTD did send them a notice
that the property is needed for ROW as we cross Sixth Avenue. They indicated that have
some interest in their property. Cal is doing follow-up and has asked the West Corridor
staff to look at it. RTD is trying to be sensitive to the needs and want to factor a win-win.
4. Testimony of Eminent Domain Bill
Cal Marsella provided testimony on the Eminent Domain Bill at the Capitol. Directors
Pulliam and Yamrick were at the hearing and Marla Lien is still there. Some amendments
were made to the original bill which would allow parking, substations, and such. Cal
Marsella followed the Board’s direction in stating we still do not support this bill for if we
had co-development opportunities on our parking structure sites, we did not want to
preclude these opportunities. The City of Westminster, and US 36 Transit Management
organization and others are weighing in favor of TOD co-development opportunities. Cal
used anecdotal that if they put the same standards on themselves, the snack bars that are
on the Capitol basement floors would have to close if they accepted this premise of the
eminent domain bill. Cal stated he was sure they would not like these restrictions placed
on them and this would be tantamount to what would happen to RTD if this bill was
passed. Cal took time to explain to the Committee that RTD does not take or buy property
except what is needed for transit. Once done, if there is a co-development opportunity
that is supported by the City or county that RTD is working within, RTD does not want to
preclude this. If people want to build on a site that is mixed use development, this is a

short step to say the majority of people there will use transit, opportunity for affordable
housing and all those things that support the use of transit, should not be precluded.
Director Pulliam shared they will vote tonight but his sense is it will come out of Committee
amended and sent to appropriations where it will go back through a hearing process.
Director McMullen questioned if they were aware this could put the whole West Corridor in
jeopardy. He was corrected to say that with the amendments put back in today, we could
build the West Corridor but what it would do is undermine the will and desire of the various
communities for the TOD development. Cal made that point in today’s committee hearing.
Director McMullen asked if the City of Lakewood was coming to bat for RTD. The
response was no.
Director Ruchman asked if it was made known that the RTD Federal government partner
also supports TOD around transit sites and this would be implementing the interest of
Federal government as well as longer approved vision of DRCOG.
Cal talked about the concept of “uneconomical remnant” which initially precluded RTD
from selling leftover property. RTD could be sitting on property that could be considered
blight. Cal used an example of building the central corridor and relocating a liquid nitron
company by Pepsi Center and had 3 acres left. RTD was able to sell this for a win-win.
Director Daly asked if we could be in danger of losing our FTA funding if we could not use
eminent domain to secure the necessary property. Cal Marsella responded yes, this was
communicated to them and this is partially the reason why the amendments were made.
5. Update on Disputed Properties for West Corridor
Cal Marsella referred the Board to a letter which was passed out to the Board relative to
the Lakewood Gulch Confluence at the South Platte River. This letter confirms that the
parties involved (RTD, City and County of Denver, and Urban Drainage) are in agreement
that no movement is needed. A copy of that letter is included with these minutes.
Cal petitioned the Board members to provide the message that a process is in place and we
will defer to the process if questioned.
Chris Martinez asked Cal to articulate what were the steps. Cal provided this information
and indicated he would provide a written follow-up of the steps in the eminent domain
process. Susan Altes also provided an explanation of the question from Director Ruchman
on when does the 90 days process begins. Susan stated the 90 days applied to the
property owner that they had 90 days from the date of notification to acquire an appraisal
if they want RTD to pay for it but the property owner is not required to share that appraisal
with RTD. In some cases, the property owner has elected not to share pending the offer
they may get from RTD. For the property owners that had been given a letter in the
September 25-early October timeframe, RTD has also acquired an appraisal and the
imminent step (next 10 days) will be for RTD to make an offer.
To Director Yamrick’s question on if the property for the parking structure was assessed
for the highest and best use with the 8 stories included, Cal Marsella responded yes.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-H.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON

MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and an affirmative manual vote with 1 vote in favor
(Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Approval of Board Bylaws

B.

Resolution No. __, Series 0f 2008 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2008A
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number ___ (the “Bond Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2008A.

C.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Third One-Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the third-year option with LM Telecommunications
incrementally increasing the limit to $750,000 to extend the contract for IT Technical
and Management Support Services (15Dk009). This contract was originally awarded in
2005 to LM Telecommunications through the competitive bid process. The contract
allowed for an initial year plus four one-year options to renew based on positive
performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed $250,000. The third
year option is to begin on March 1, 2008 and remain in effect for one year until
February 28, 2009.

D.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Third One-Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the third one-year option with Ciber incrementally
increasing the total contract limit to $1,575,000 to extend the contract for IT Technical
and Management Support Services (15DK008). This contract was originally awarded
in 2005 to Ciber through the competitive bid process totally separate from the ERP
effort. The contract allowed for an initial year plus four one-year options to renew
based on positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the contract was not to
exceed $525,000. This third-year option is to begin on April 1, 2008 and remain in
effect for one-year until March 31, 2009.

E.

Approval of May 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 4, 2008 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual expenditure of approximately
$2,145,000, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

F.

Request for Approval of the West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City
of Golden
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) between the City of Golden and the Regional Transportation District, the purpose
of which is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of Golden to fund a portion of
the project costs and the obligations of RTD to design, construct, own, operate and
maintain a light rail transit project within the boundaries of Golden. This IGA does not

commit any present funding by either Party. Implementation of the IGA implies future
financial commitments by both Parties subject to future RTD Board of Directors and
Golden City Council approvals and is subject to each respective agency’s legally
required budgeting, authorization and appropriation process. Nothing in the IGA shall
be construed as a multiple fiscal year obligation by either Party.

IX.

G.

Application for Rezoning 350 South Santa Fe Drive
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents that
may be necessary for RTD to allow for the rezoning of property located at 350 South
Santa Fe Drive, to allow Alameda Station, LLC, the successful proposer, pursuant to
the RFP issued in 2004, to proceed with the City and County of Denver process for the
rezoning of said property on RTD’s behalf, and to close on the property upon approval
of the rezoning application by the City and County of Denver.

H.

Purchase four 40 Foot Ultra-low Sulfur Diesel Heavy Duty Transit Buses
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to exercise the option included in Contract 13DK005
with Gillig Corporation for 4 heavy duty ultra-low sulfur diesel low-floor 40 foot transit
buses.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
I.

Approval of Public Private Partnership (P3) Goals and Schedule Milestones
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to implement the recommended goals and
schedule milestones for the Public Private Partnership (P3) Project based on
consistency with overall FasTracks goals and schedule.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to authorize the
General Manager to implement the recommended
goals and schedule milestones for the Public
Private Partnership.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Tayer inquired if it was possible to
include under quality the item of promoting
environmental and economical sustainability. Cal
Marsella responded that this was embedded in the
language already provided and there was no need
for a verbiage change.

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and an affirmative manual vote with 1 vote
in favor (Brohl, Busck Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Quinlan, Pulliam, Ruchman and Tayer) and 1
against (Yamrick).
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

J.

Resolution No.__, Series of 2008 Appointees to Salaried Employee Pension Trust

MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to approve
the resolution to appoint two middle
management employees (Gregory Yates and
Luong Ha) to the Salaried Employee Pension
Trust.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and an affirmative manual vote with 1 vote
in favor (Brohl, Busck Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Quinlan, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick).
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Chair Kemp once again opened up for public participation and asked if there was anyone
present who might want to speak. No one came forward.

XI.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp indicated that per his conversation with Cal Marsella, General Manager, Holman
Carter, ATU President, had requested if the Board could appoint 1 temporary salaried employee
as a representative to the Union Pension and Health Welfare Trust pending the approval of the
Board to move forward on the new request for a change in the process to indemnify the
Salaried Employee representatives to the Union Trust. Cal Marsella would appoint Ron
Dodsworth as that interim representative for the Union Pension and Health Welfare Trust.
Director Martinez asked if this action would indemnify Ron Dodsworth and the response was
yes. This change to the Union Pension and Health Welfare Trust will come before the Finance
Committee to move forward to the full Board for approval. This action item will include an
annual report back mechanism from the Union Pension and Health Welfare Trust to the Board
which will provide the indemnity necessary for the 3 salaried employee representatives on this
Board.

Director Daly added his appreciation to the three Trustees, Theresa Sedmak, Greg Fischer and
Myra Simmons, for the good job they have done on this trust.
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to approve
The temporary appointment of Ron Dodsworth
to the Union Pension and Health Welfare Trust
Fund until the action is passed for the change
that would provide indemnity for the 3 salaried
employee trustees for the union fund.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and an affirmative manual vote with 1 vote
in favor (Brohl, Busck Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Quinlan, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick).
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

Director Brohl reminded the Board Committee Chairs (FasTracks and Operations/Customer
Services) that they had until this Friday the 22nd to submit their review of the General Manager
2007 goals.
XII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:15 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, February 19, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Ron Dodsworth
Phil Eberl
David Genova
Jennifer Heisler
Lloyd Mack
Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District D
District C
District J
District N
District A
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

Brian Matthews
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Bill Porter
Liz Rao
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster

OTHERS PRESENT:
John Hulse (Spectrum)
Ed Colby (URS)
Boyd Gordon (URS)
John Mitchel
Debra Mitchel
Jacqueline Knights (Bear Stearns)
Tim Swope (Boulder County)
Karen Samuelsen (NFB)
Eric Biga (Veolia)
Bruce Behncke (Veolia)
Linda Wambolt (Colorado Property Rights Coalition)
Tom Wambolt (Colorado Property Rights Coalition)
Peter Lorenzen
John Maslanik
Phuonglan Nguyen (FRESC)
Steve Roesher Siemens
William James
Malcolm Macintyre (Bobcoch & Brown)
Eliot Jamison (Bobcoch & Brown)
Ron Chance (WGI)
Roger Sherman (CRL)

John Shonsey
Jenny Barket
Stan Szabelak
Liz Telford
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington
Shirley Bennett
Scott Roberts

