2025-02-12
Operations, Safety and Security Committee
JOYANN RUSCHA: Hello, everyone. Good evening. The Wednesday, February 12th Operation Safety
and Security Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:33 PM. I would respectfully ask
everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you're recognized to speak. Please note that
committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and
video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access
Realtime Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an
email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally,
the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a
live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available on RTD's
YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for our committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Wonderful. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Happy to have you. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Love it. Thanks for joining us. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am here.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Nice to see you. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Awesome. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I am here.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Wouldn't be a meeting without you. And I am Chair JoyAnn Ruscha and I am also
present. So, for the record, I see we have all seven Directors present with us today. I would now like to
open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the
published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and
have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. During this

time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to be
contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com.
Mr. Kroll, do we have any hands raised or public comments or anyone in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Ruscha, we do have one hand raised and that is from a former
Director. We have former Director Jaime Lewis present.
JAIME LEWIS: Good evening.
JOYANN RUSCHA: The Honorable Jaime Lewis, you are recognized. Welcome. We have missed you.
Please proceed.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Tonight there will be a request for an additional $2 million from
the Board to ensure that Access-on-Demand service is funded through 2025. CCDC, in which I am the
Transit Advisor of that group, supports this action and agrees with staff that this action is needed. While
staff formulates changes to TOD to ensure its long-term financial stability, it is important to continue this
service without interruption.
On another issue, the recommended action from the Federal Transit Administration to require drug testing
for TNCs is another hurdle that RTD must face. I would hope that RTD is transparent and open to the
public on this matter. We need the same fervor as we did to address changes to AOD by communicating
with the disability community and bringing those to the table, i.e., Uber, Lyft, Skip, And Metro Taxi. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. You're welcome to come back any time. Mr. Kroll, is there anyone
else with their hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Yes, at this time, Committee Chair Ruscha, I see two additional hands raised. The first is
from Bob Dinegar.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, Mr. Dinegar, welcome to OSS. You are recognized.
BOB DINEGAR: Thank you. Good evening. I was pleased to see this committee's work plan will include a
review of RTD policies and hope that will include taking a close look at the habitual outsourcing of half of
the agency's fixed bus routes to Transdev, a contractor that is 67% controlled by the French government.
These are trying times. The stresses of uncertainty and a looming sense of powerlessness do not make
for a healthy atmosphere. Each of us has a responsibility to ourselves and to each other to look out for
our mental health.
I'm here to say a few words about an incident involving a fellow bus driver I worked with at Transdev in
September 2005, long before I knew him, my friend, Shimels made his way from Ethiopia to the United
States hoping to find a better life. Within about a year, on the Sunday before Thanksgiving of 2006, he
was overjoyed to start his first day driving an RTD bus. For the next 19 years, Shimels Tadesse showed
up for work every day, faithfully pursuing the American dream.
He was glad to have the opportunity to provide for his family, no matter if he had to go out in sub-zero
weather, snowy streets, or even during the dark days of the pandemic. Shimels showed up, dealt with the
frustrations and occasional abuse from thoughtless passengers, and did his job. Shimels has a quiet
dignity about him, always has a big, bright smile. He takes great pride in his appearance and is fastidious
about washing his hands.

Unfortunately, his fastidious nature and the stresses of his job, apparently, led to an incident where he
was about to wash his hands in the restroom at the Broomfield Station, and there was no soap in the
dispenser. So in frustration, he yanked it off the wall and threw it outside. On January 8, he was called
into Transdev General Manager Saidel Sobrevilla's office and told that RTD had seen him do this on
camera and advised Transdev to fire him. He was handed his final paycheck and asked for his employee
badge.
Shimels has apologized and shed tears over this. His 13-year-old daughter is outraged. She asks how
could they do this after 19 years. He'd simply like his job back. No one was hurt. I hope we can all agree
that's only fair. We can do better than this. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Dinegar. Mr. Kroll, who is our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Nate Trela.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Nate-- I'm sorry. What was the last name?
JACK KROLL: Trela.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Trela, OK. Mr. Trela, you are recognized, and we generally permit three minutes for
public comments. I will ask Mr. Kroll to keep the time if that-- OK, looks like I have a nod there. You are
recognized. You may speak.
NATE TRELA: Great, appreciate it. Yes, I'm Nate Trela of Englewood. I am a Secretary of the Blind
Parents Division of the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado, and I appreciate the chance to speak
to the committee today. I just wanted to first off, encourage the Board to adopt the additional funding for
the Access-on-Demand program. I appreciate the way the Board and staff has really taken to heart the
input that's come in so far and has revisited the original proposals for revamping the program and is being
more thoughtful and considerate of all the input that's come in so far.
For the Board members, both returning and those sworn in not long ago and beginning their terms, this is
an issue that has been front and center for more than a year now for many of us with disabilities, many of
us who use paratransit. And I look forward to hopefully seeing some real progress towards a revised
system that's both financially responsible, while still maintaining the great quality of service for a program
that's been life-changing for many, many passengers in the Metro area. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Mr. Kroll, do we have anyone else in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Madam Chair Ruscha, at this time, I see no further hands raised.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. And were there any email comments received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Ruscha, you all received two emails, one from Greater Denver
Transit commenting on the Access-on-Demand item before you all, as well as the security contract scope
of work item before you all. In addition to that, you all received an email from Mr. Joseph Meyer with
respect to the discussion related to the May 2025 service changes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I will also note that the Board received an email from Ms. Mary [?
Henick, ?] and she asked for her email to be included for today's public comment. So I will forward that to

you for the transcript. Thank you. All right. So with no other participants in the queue, we will close the
public comment period at this time and move into our recommended actions.
So there are four recommended actions on the agenda this evening. The first item is for the 2025 Accesson-Demand funding. Before I begin, just want to advise that as we go into our action items, today, we will
take questions first before comments. Sometimes folks have the same question as others, but it's pretty
common in parliamentary procedure to do that. So I know traditionally, we've combined questions and
comments, but first, we're going to ask for what we would call a question or point of clarification. Then
we'll move into discussion. Everyone will have a chance to speak. I promise.
All right. So the 2025 Access-on-Demand funding action item reads as follows. For the Board of Directors
to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to provide additional funding of $15,814,441
for the Access-on-Demand program, raising the not-to-exceed amount from $21.9 to $37.8 million, and
delegating authority to amend the contracts with existing providers to increase the current amount of
program funding for the remainder of the term of the contracts, which expire December 31, 2025. Do we
have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Madam Chair?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I move to amend the motion.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Nicholson. But I need to get this motion moved first, and then
you may move your amendment.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh, I understand. Sorry. My apologies.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No worries. If you would like to help us speed along, you could-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: I'll second, Whitmore.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. Rescued by Directors Buzek and Whitmore, respectively. OK, so I
would like to-- and we will get to you, Director Nicholson-- but we're going to ask Fred Worthen to go
ahead and present, and then you may go ahead and offer your motion to amend, OK?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: You got it. So I would like to ask Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager, Bus
Operations, and Paul Hamilton, Paratransit Services, to present this item. So at this time, I would ask
Directors who have questions and you would like to speak, to raise your virtual hands, and I will call on
you-- Sorry, I should pause. We're going to let our presenters present before I get ahead with questions.
Even I skipped ahead in the script. So with that, I will turn it over to whomever would like to present this
item from staff. Thank you.

FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Committee Chair Ruscha, I'm Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations. Again, staff is requesting the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and
CEO or a designee to provide additional funding for the Access-on-Demand program as Committee Chair
Ruscha brought forth in the recommended actions. To be clear, this request is strictly to fund the existing
Access-on-Demand program as it is currently structured. Staff intends to bring proposed recommended
policy changes regarding Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand in March 2025 for discussion and in
April or May a recommended action for the Board's consideration.
As a bit of background, RTD currently has two paratransit service programs-- Access-a-Ride and Accesson-Demand. Access-a-Ride is a paratransit service federally mandated by the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990. It is a complementary service to supplement regular fixed-route services. It is a shared-ride
service intended for those who cannot use regular fixed-route or light-rail service due to a disability.
Customers must meet eligibility requirements established under ADA legislation.
Customers may book trips up to one to seven days in advance of the requested services, and all
customers pay base fare for all trips. All Access-a-Ride vehicles are currently branded and wheelchair
accessible. Access-on-Demand, which we are here bringing forward to you tonight a resolution to
continue funding for, is a supplemental premium paratransit service and is not federally mandated. It is a
subsidized curb-to-curb and rideshare option available to current eligible Access-a-Ride customers.
RTD pays the first $25 of a trip. Customers may use up to 60 trips per month on any of four network
providers of services. Access-on-Demand has grown substantially since pilot inception. Background on
the development and growth on the Access-on-Demand program is included in your Board packet.
Approximately half of our current active Access-a-Ride customers use Access-on-Demand. Of those,
approximately 20% of our customers use a mix of Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand services. And
approximately 30% of our active paratransit customers utilize Access-on-Demand solely.
The number of customers who solely use Access-on-Demand services has been steadily increasing.
Although the initial pilot was designed to help supplement Access-a-Ride services, an entirely new market
has risen from the program as it currently functions. With that information as a backdrop, that concludes
my presentation, Madam Chair.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. That was a robust set of facts and information for us to consider. So
as noted, the RTD staff will also present their recommended changes next month. And then I believe they
will present an action item for us to take formal action in May. Now, as noted before, we're going to open
this up for clarifying questions.
No, we don't add information or add our thoughts or opinions, just clarifying questions only so that you're
able to make an informed decision on this vote. So if we have any questions, I will go ahead and take
them now. Oh, that was a lot of hands at once. Director Paglieri, I see you on my screen first. You are
recognized.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. This is Director Paglieri. Thank you, Chair. My first question is simply why
is $2 million needed now and not budgeted for last year? Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will leave that up to whomever would like to address that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Committee Chair Ruscha, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, absolutely. Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. You are recognized. Please.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Good evening, all. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. As it
relates to why $2 million wasn't budgeted, we did budget for the program recognizing the information that
Mr. Worthen set forward relative to anticipated program modifications. Upon engaging with the
community, specifically advocacy groups, in particular, we garnered some input and thought it would be
most prudent for us to take into consideration the feedback that we had received, recognizing when we
began the budget process-- which commenced in and around the summer of 2024 and moving forward-we allocated monies for the program pursuant to the data we had.
In relationship to where we stand, recognizing that Mr. Worthen outlined that we may be bringing back
policy recommendations to this Board for consideration, that will delay the time frame in which we saw
hints, the request for $2 million to fund the program in its current state. That may not be needed, but we
wanted to ensure that we were erring on the side of caution relative to continuing providing service in a
manner for this population. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm sorry. Well, we can Co-Chair together. [LAUGHS]
Freudian slip. OK. Thank you, General Manager/CEO, Ms. Johnson. Director Nicholson, I see your hand
in the queue. If you have just a question that you'd like to get out of the way, we're more than happy to
entertain that.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No. I'll let Director Chandler go before me, and then I'll offer my amendment.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, sir. Director Chandler, you're recognized. Welcome.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you. My question is what do you think has attributed to the increase in
use? Is there a program that is being permeated? I mean, because a part of this is when something is
being not so used and then, all of a sudden, it's exponential-- in fact, you were saying a lot of people are
using the Access-on-Demand exclusively and not using Access-a-Ride-- what do you attribute that
increase of usage? Because I think that has a lot to do with, obviously, the increase of costs that we're
trying to combat.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. If I may, Madam Chair?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
FRED WORTHEN: Again, Fred Worthen, AGM, Bus Operations. Excellent question. There are actually a
multitude of factors that have contributed to the rising popularity of the program itself. For one, there is not
a fare upfront. The RTD pays the first $25 of a trip, so there is no out-of-pocket cost itself. Additionally,
currently, the Access-a-Ride services are limited to within 3/4 of a mile of our fixed-route services and
train stations. Access-on-Demand is actually open to our entire service area, so it is available to some
clients that may not have a trip that would qualify underneath the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Additionally, the Access-a-Ride services are limited to mirror our fixed-route services, so the hours and
days of service are similar to our fixed-route. The Access-on-Demand is 24/7 availability itself. So those
are some of the factors that are differences in the program that have led to a completely new market.
There are other things that I will talk about next month during full committee presentation. But I think
those are some of the major driving factors for the question that you've asked.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: May I ask a follow-up question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: And so really, truly, I think what's happening here is my perception is that as an
Access-on-Demand rider, you're getting better service, right? Because you're getting from point A to point
B quicker, faster, more reliable, you don't have to set it so far in advance. So is this really about that need,
or the fact that the service is better? Do you have any idea of what might drive that forward? Because that
would be my reasoning why I would use it instead of using just a normal Access-a-Ride.
FRED WORTHEN: The advance availability is another particular area. Again, there are a lot of other
driving factors. But the three that I mentioned are the most prominent of driving factors for the popularity
of the program itself. I wouldn't say that it is a better service. I would say that it offers different amenities
and offers a different service level than we have with Access-a-Ride itself.
We've done a lot to improve the Access-a-Ride. When I took over paratransit, our on-time performance
for pickups was in the upper 70 percentile range. We're picking up now in the upper 90 percentile range
itself. But we still have opportunities to improve Access-a-Ride. And I'll talk more about those things next
month.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Director Chandler, do you have any other follow-up
questions? All right. Thank you. I also see that we have Director Benker. Thank you for joining us. And I
apologize. I neglected to mention that we also had Director Guzman joining, although he might have lost
his connection. And we have Committee Chair Bouquet. So again, I apologize for not recognizing you
earlier. Thanks for joining. I'm going to go ahead and call on Director Benker. You may proceed.
KAREN BENKER: Committee Chair, thank you. I just wanted some clarification because as I'm reading
the recommended action, are you asking to go from $21.9 million to $37.8? But I hear folks talking about
just a $2 million increase. Could you clarify?
FRED WORTHEN: I believe our manager would like-- I can answer that, but I'll defer to our General
Manager.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Ah, yes, I see General Manager's hand is raised. Ms. Johnson, you're recognized.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Committee Chair Ruscha. And thank you, Director Benker,
for the question. So basically, what we had put forward was that there's $13 million roughly that was
appropriated by the Board of Directors in the fiscal year budget of 2025. In relationship to the program
modification which we were anticipating to happen that has not yet occurred, we are asking for an
additional $2 million from the-- my gosh, I'm looking at the funding source-- the unrestricted-FRED WORTHEN: Unrestricted reserves.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Fred. Unrestricted reserves. So that's what's being called
into question relative to the conversations that have ensued.
FRED WORTHEN: If I may elaborate a little further too. I think what you're asking is there's differences in
numbers. When we started with the initial contract, it was a three-year contract funded for approximately
$9 million. Over the course of the three years, we have had to increase the funding itself. The $37 million
is the projected cost for the entire three years-KAREN BENKER: Oh.

FRED WORTHEN: --of the Access-on-Demand program. All we're asking for, though, is to fund the
remaining 2025 budget and to give us contract authority to be able to pay the full contract itself.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: OK, thank you. That definitely helps us.
FRED WORTHEN: Is that helpful?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I have a piggyback to that one, Mr. Worthen, or GM/CEO Johnson. So last year in
our budget, we had collectively authorized a little more than $13.2 million as noted. In the Board report, it
says that we haven't tabulated all invoices and it probably takes our vendors time to get that to us. But we
are looking at about $11.1 million. So does that mean that the remainder-- is that $2.8 million and
change-- would have just gone back into the unrestricted reserves because it's the end of the year and
we didn't use it? Or are you asking for an additional $2 million on top of that remainder?
FRED WORTHEN: I'm not sure if Mr. MacLeod is on or not. I think that would be a better question
answered for him with regard to remaining dollars at the end of the fiscal year. If Mr. MacLeod is not
available, we can definitely get that question answered for you. But my understanding is that any
budgeted dollars that aren't expended go back into the general reserve fund itself.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Worthen, if I may? CFO MacLeod is on and he can provide a response relative to
that. Mr. MacLeod, are you able to do so?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, good evening. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. Yeah, that is
correct. Any unused funding would go back into the general fund. However, for certain projects, any
unused funding we carry, we would carry that funding forward. In this case, it would go back into the
unrestricted reserve.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. That answers my question. So I think I guess what I'm also hearing is
that in the end, the $2 million is either a wash or we just ran into the thing called January. But I will go
ahead and see if any other Directors have their hands raised for questions. I see no other hands raised
for questions, I believe, except Director Nicholson. I know you also wanted to offer an amendment,
possibly have a question. So I will go ahead and yield.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I have a question as well.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, well, we'll yield the floor to you. It is your turn, sir. Thank you for being patient.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I try. I actually have a question for CFO MacLeod. Can you speak to how much
money was handed back from, or if any, from Access-on-Demand at the end of last year? You said that
money would be if there was any. Can you speak to if that took place and how much?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, yes, sir. Go ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Doug MacLeod. Yes, we do not have that number just yet. With fiscal
year-end, it takes us a little extra time to process and gather all the invoices as was mentioned earlier.

There's a lag time in those invoices coming in. We want to get them all in or accrued by year end. So we
don't have that number just yet, but we can provide it at a later time.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Right, yeah. Sorry. Madam Chair.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, go ahead, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Yeah, I would say that that definitely would be a useful piece of
information to have when we're looking in the future at the changes we may or may not make to Accesson-Demand. So that would be helpful. Continuing on, Madam Chair, if I may make a motion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: You may?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Chair Ruscha, I move to amend the motion on the table by striking the
number $15,814,441 and replacing it with $13,814,441, as well as striking the number $37.8 million and
replacing it with $35.8 million. So $37.8 to $35.8, and then $15 point-- it's the version that was sent by
email to you and the rest of the committee-- actually, I think all of the Directors-- just before the meeting.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Nicholson. So just to understand your motion to amend, you are
seeking to reduce the requested authorization by $2 million.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That's correct. And then to also modify the not-to-exceed to match that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. OK, do we have a second?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: So moved.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I heard Director Chandler as a second. OK, so we have an amendment on the table.
Director Nicholson, as this was your motion, I will go ahead and let you speak first to your amendment.
You are recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: All right. According to the January Board Briefing documents, our sales and use
collection year-to-date back in November was down 8.2% versus what was budgeted, which is about
$69,123,000. That's nearly equivalent to the $69,240,000 that we took in in sales and use tax in
November. So our sales tax revenues are essentially an entire month short according to the most recent
data that we've published.
Our unrestricted reserve that those $2 million would come from is currently at $338,207,000 for fiscal year
2025. That sounds like a lot. The problem is, it's budgeted to drop down to only $4 million by 2029 in our
five-year forecast. In September, Access-on-Demand cost $1.029 million. We estimated in the same
September presentation that it would cost $1.17 million for December. But we obviously, as Doug
MacLeod said, don't have the full numbers yet.
This original request that was the recommended action puts us at $1.317 million on average for the next
year. It's time to recognize that we don't have unlimited money, and we have many, many other things we
need to pay for. With the uncertainty looming at the federal level over a substantial portion of our budget,
we need to be fiscally responsible now. I am more than open to funding this program at a higher level
than this amendment seeks after we have had a full conversation about the long-term cost.

But this agenda item does not do that. It asks for more money before we have had any opportunity to
weigh the competing priorities which we would be taking from and which our budget process was
designed for. Accessibility is extremely important, but our job as Directors is not to allow any one issue to
take precedence over the fiscal health of the agency. This is not a politically easy thing to do, but the
voters sent us here to make hard choices. I ask for your support for this motion.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you, Director Nicholson. Do we have any other Directors who would
like to offer any comment? Seeing-- oh, I'm sorry. Director Chandler, you're recognized.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, thank you, Chair Ruscha. I agree with Director Nicholson. This is a very
difficult decision to make. We all want and recognize that paratransit is extremely important. And access
for the least of these, for those that go and need transit, those that are dependent, is extremely important.
But I don't believe that all options have been discussed. Nor do I think that by giving an additional $2
million upfront, will this ever be clawed back.
I mean, no agency I've ever known has received money and then eventually given it back. So what we
need to do is come up with better solutions before we start funding something really with limited
discussion. So I would concur with Director Nicholson. Even though this is a very difficult decision, it is the
best for the health of the overall agency, and in reality, it's the best for the health of furthering paratransit
for those that are dependent upon it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Chandler. I see Director Paglieri, and then we'll move on to
Director Benker. Director Paglieri, you're recognized.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. This is Director Paglieri. Very quickly, I agree with Director
Nicholson, and I also echo a lot of Director Chandler's concerns about that this is not an easy decision.
But I think it's a decision that we have to make because we are going to be discussing it next month, I
believe. I think that it will not do very much harm if we simply go back to what was budgeted from last
year, taking into account the rough financial forecast we anticipate, and discuss real solutions and
permanent ways to actually expand and learn how much the options are going to cost. So thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Paglieri. I will go ahead and recognize Director Benker, and then
CFO MacLeod, I will probably call on you just to speak to the financial outlook and our five-year financial
plan. So be at the ready, please. Director Benker, please go ahead.
KAREN BENKER: Just a quick observation. We're only six weeks into the new fiscal year. And it just
seems going forward with a supplemental of this size seems to be perhaps too early. I think it would be
good to see in the next couple of months how usage and costs are occurring over the next few weeks and
months. And it would also give us an opportunity to dig a little deeper into the program, especially for
some of us new folks that have a lot to learn.
I would like to learn more about how this program works and how it interacts with Access-a-Ride since I
was one of the original Board members who voted to approve Access-a-Ride back into the 1990s, again,
showing my age. So granted I cannot vote, but I would just encourage that we wait a little while.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Benker. And I also see Director Buzek has his hand up. I'll go
ahead and recognize you, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Chair Ruscha. Just a couple of quick comments. The $2 million increase in
funding is to maintain the status quo, while we continue-- as I know, our GM/CEO and others have been

doing-- for months to analyze Access-on-Demand services and funding. Not authorizing $2 million is, in
essence, a cut to their funding. And if anybody needs this service, it's the disability community.
And I'm not a big fan of taking away their services without a full analysis of what's going on. And we're still
in the heart of that. And because we're only maintaining the status quo, I think it's the least we can do for
this community. I'm not a big fan of the Elon Musk style of you need to live within your budget and that's
just the way it is. There's a lot more nuance to this whole thing, and I'm not going to support the
amendment. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: This is for-JOYANN RUSCHA: Chair Harwick, I am sorry. I violated my own rule of decorum.
IAN HARWICK: Don't worry about it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: You may proceed.
IAN HARWICK: For this, so I'm just curious, given that we've seen a fairly substantial rise in these costs
over time, are we pretty sure this is going to get us there, or are we worried that we're-- I know we're
getting an update next month-- but also just curious, are we worried we're still going to come in short and
then we're going to have to go back and ask for more money as we get like October, November, or do
you think this has got us covered?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Please proceed, Ms. Johnson, yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. And so, basically, to the question that was posed by Vice
Chair Harwick, that's exactly what we're trying to do going forward, recognizing that we have contracted
with third-party entities and those invoices have yet to come in. What we had forecasted relative to what's
outlined in the Board report is predicated upon what we saw relative to usage, utilizing the TNCs and the
taxi company going forward.
And so the reason why we're asking for the $2 million in relationship to where we are is so we would not
necessarily have to come back to the Board and make an additional amendment to the third-party
contracts that are already set to sunset at December 31, 2025. There could be the situation whereby we
have this mitigated going forward in reference to putting forward staff-proposed recommendations from a
policy vantage point, and then put those solicitations out to work in tandem with third parties that could
decrease the cost we're spending, or it could be a different level of the program.
You heard relative to public comment about the Federal Transit Administration, in December of 2024, the
previous presidential administration-- Biden-Harris-- within the ranks of the FTA, put forward a proposed
policy statement that may require operators of transportation network companies to be subjected to
alcohol and drug testing. In working with a myriad of different transit agencies and APTA were providing
comments.
It's a new Administration. We don't know if that comes to fruition. Those elements will help inform
decisions relative to modifications to the program. Hence, we don't know what we don't know. And to the

point that was just raised by Director Buzek, the request for $2 million would help bridge that gap so we're
not going back to a third-party contractor and making another amendment when we can do that in one fell
swoop. Thank you,
IAN HARWICK: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. I also just, I'm going to go ahead and offer an observation, and
also just to recap what happened last year. So we had last month at public comment, someone said that-I'm paraphrasing-- nothing is more frustrating when your boss tells you to do X, and then you get
frustrated, and then you do it, and then they get frustrated because you didn't do Y. And to be very clear,
both Board Directors and community members went to RTD and leadership and our General Manager
and asked for this program to be funded without cuts through 2025.
And that is precisely what we did. We have already authorized this funding. We just ran into what I said
before, which was kind of a January problem. Normally, these are multi-year appropriations, so we don't
do this [LAUGHS] every January. But because of a quirk and potential pending changes, the chips just
fell where they were. But we did make a very, very public commitment as a Board. And our GM/CEO
made a very public commitment last fall that we would continue to fund this program fully through the end
of the year. And I think we should keep that promise.
So thank you for entertaining my comments. I will go ahead and recognize-- and I don't know whose
hands went up in what order-- but I'm going to go ahead and recognize Director Guzman and then
Director Catlin, who has also joined us, as they have not had a chance to speak. Then I will return to
Directors on the committee. Director Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I echo your sentiment. We did appropriate this money
last year, and we did make the commitment to the paratransit community that rely on Access-on-Demand.
As far as this amendment goes, I am not a member of your committee, but I would strongly vote against it
and take the original request from staff and move forward with that for a number of reasons. One, this
seems to suggest that our sales and use tax is not going to continue to increase. That is not the
information we currently have. That is not backed up by the studies by the CU Leeds School of Business
presented in the five-year fiscal plan.
Their forecast for sales and use tax in the state of Colorado particular to our region, and the current
information that was utilized for this from the November dates heavily relies on a time of year for a month
snapshot where we are traditionally going to see a downturn and not an upturn in sales and use tax
collections because it does not calculate for the holiday spending that occurs at that time of year.
We don't have those numbers yet. So I think it's a bit faulty and a knee-jerk reaction to look at only one
month's information and not take into consideration the five-year planning process that goes into the
making of the budget. Those assumptions are clearly outlaid in our budget book that was presented last
year, was presented the year before, and will be presented again at the end of this year going into the
following year based on sound information.
Our conservative fiscal policies, furthermore, ensure that we have the finances in place to be able to do
this. And while we do see a drawdown of funds over the course of the next five to seven years in our
unrestricted fund, that is because there are some major purchases that are planned for which our current

Board policies require us to use cash on hand and not take a COP, a bond, or a loan to make those
purchases or investments into the system.
That's why that money is there. It is there for this purpose. And I think it is unwise to amend what has
been presented here. And I would not be saying that if I hadn't done all of the digging to try and figure out
where those numbers were coming from that are suggested with the speaking points that were sent out to
us. But I would tell you from the finance point of view, the $2 million that's being requested is reasonable
to request.
The ability for the General Manager and CEO to be delegated the authority to amend our contracts and to
consider modifying any terms of service are important because that's a delegation we give to her. We
ourselves as Directors do not do that. And we have received the commitment both on the record in
multiple meetings about this particular issue with the Access-on-Demand, that we will have a thorough
vetting with plenty of public input on the matter for us to consider going forward.
But as far as this year goes, considering that already we are talking about the difference of a $2 million
difference, I just don't see the sense in modifying this at this time. If you would like further explanation on
that, I would defer kindly to our CFO, Doug MacLeod. But everything that I have seen for the last two
years on this Board indicates that we will see steady and continued sales and use tax growth.
Is that going to be enough to cover all the costs of the system? Absolutely not. Are we going to have to
enter into conversations that are serious about what our budget looks like and what priorities are?
Definitely, that's our job as Directors. But $2 million to be offered for this with the delegation of authority to
be able to use some of that up to a maximum amount, that seems a logical conclusion. So that's my two
cents on the matter. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Guzman. I actually would call on CFO MacLeod. And I would
also offer that our F and P Chair answered most of the question I was going to ask, so thank you, Director
Guzman. But CFO MacLeod, could you please address, per our policy or under state law, if this action
item passes today and at our regular Board meeting, would that be considered a budget amendment?
Would we have to file additional paperwork?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Ruscha. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. No, it would
not require a budget amendment. We may transfer money within the actual appropriated budget. You
may recall that when we asked for the appropriation, we also include the fund balances which would
include the unrestricted fund balance that is available for appropriation when that permission is given. In
this case, we're asking for a transfer from the unrestricted balance.
Typically, what would happen if we were later in the fiscal year is that we would have other budget line
item savings for various reasons. Perhaps a project was started late. We don't need the full year of
budget funding. We would take that particular line item and request that be transferred out from that
expense line item over to Access-on-Demand. In this case, because we're so early in the year, we really
don't know what our variances are. So we're just requesting that it would come from the unrestricted fund.
Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I am happy to wax poetic about utility curves all day long. But when it
comes to the finer points of our fiscal policy and state law, that's when I phone a friend. Director Catlin,
thank you for joining us. You're recognized

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I've actually been here the whole meeting, but-JOYANN RUSCHA: I apologize. I apologize.
PEGGY CATLIN: No problem. I very much appreciate the fiscal responsibility expressed by our three
Directors on this matter. That being said, I live in an area where I've received a number of comments and
frustrated comments from people who would ordinarily be able to use Access-a-Ride, but because the
routes to Evergreen and Conifer are considered commuter routes, if you're 3/4 of a mile from those
routes, they're not eligible.
So there's a large part of my district that does not have that availability. And if I'm hearing Mr. Worthen
correctly, this Access-on-Demand has much broader reach than the Access-a-Ride. And so I ordinarily
would err on the side of fiscal prudence. But in this case, I think there's some opportunities to serve some
underserved populations in a number of remote districts. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Chandler, you're recognized.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you again, Chair Ruscha. And I agree with what Peggy is saying. In fact,
that's the whole point, right? Is that as the costs are going up and so is the accessibility? People want this
service because it is so flexible because it does provide that additional service. But the point is that it's
expensive. So what we need to do is probably revamp the existing Access-a-Ride and the existing
Access-on-Demand to accommodate those.
By funding it little by little like what we're doing, we're not going to push it to conclude what needs to
change in order to make it better and more fiscally sound. So I'm actually wanting this to go forward so
that we can have a good discussion on what would make this better. Because as more people find out
what Director Catlin just talked about, the more they're going to want to use it and the more the costs are
going to continue to go up.
So I'm voting for this only because I think it will foster a broader, bigger discussion which will be better in
the long run and more robust for those that actually do need the service and those that maybe should
have a different service instead of using the more expensive service up front.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Chandler. Director Nicholson, I see your hand raised.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Yeah, I wanted to respond to some comments. So the first thing I would
say is that allocating $13 million when we have budgeted $13 million is not a cut. It is allocating the exact
same amount of money that we said in December, or rather, this previous Board said in December was
enough money to fund the program. If there was a necessity to fund the program at a higher level, one
would have expected that would have made it into the actual budget process.
So my primary objection here is that we're coming right after, literally less than 60 days, around 60 days
after the budget was passed, and saying, oh no, we need more money. And it's not just like 2% more. It's
15% more money in a year when we are forecast-- I'm reading Director Guzman said we're forecast to
have more money.
This is the budget summary. This is the first line of the budget summary for the 2025 budget. This is for
anyone who wants the reference, Page 45. RTD's 2025 operating revenue budget is expected to
decrease in the forthcoming year compared to one-time revenues budgeted in 2024. We are going to

have less money this year. The state also is projecting it's going to have less money. That's why they're
cutting their budget by hundreds of millions of dollars this year.
The federal government, we don't know right now. It could be that all of our grants are great and a year
from now nothing has changed. But looking at what has happened over the last month, I would be willing
to bet that some of them are going to be affected and we are going to be out due to the work of this
federal government substantially more than $2 million. And so given that level of uncertainty, this is just
saying we need to postpone this conversation until later, until we actually need the money, or at
minimum, until when we are talking about the future of the program.
So making this amendment does not say there is no more money for Access and it is impossible for us to
allocate more money in the future. It just said-- as I think it was either Fred Worthen or CFO MacLeod
pointed out-- later in the year, we will have a better understanding of what the tradeoffs are because we'll
see the things that are going well, expensive, cheaper, whatever. And holding off on this conversation, to
my mind, is absolutely the fiscally responsible thing to do.
The previous Board last year, two months ago, budgeted $13 million for this program. It is reasonable for
us to try to stay within the $13 million to fully fund it of what is in the 2025 budget, and then look later at
whether or not it actually should have more money after we have considered the long-term future of the
program. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, I move to call a question. I believe everybody has made their own
comments. This is not debate team. Everybody has stated their position accurately. So I think we're ready
for a vote.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think that was a second from Director Harwick. I see no other hands in the queue.
Are you all right if we just go ahead and proceed then? Director Buzek? OK, all right. So we will go ahead
and proceed to a vote, and I will call roll. Hold on. I have to get my classroom roster. Director Buzek. How
do you vote?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: On this amendment. Thank you. And again, we're voting on the amendment before
us, not the original motion. No. OK, Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Chandler's a yes. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. OK. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Nicholson is a yes. Director Paglieri, how do you vote on this amendment?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Sorry. Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, OK. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. And I am a no. The motion to amend fails by a vote of four to three. So now we
return to the original motion on the table which has not been amended, and we will proceed with that.
We've had very robust discussion on both the previous motion to amend and the original. So I, seeing no
hands raised, I'm going to go ahead and call for a vote. Director Buzek, how do you vote?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Thank you, sir. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. OK. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And I am also a yes. And that motion will carry four to three to a vote to continue
authorizing On-Demand as previously requested and I will say pledged. I apologize. I lost my script for a
minute there. Moving on, our second item is the contracted security services contract-- try that five times
fast-- for the Board of Directors to approve the summary scope of work for a solicitation, and to
subsequently authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract for
security services. Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Whitmore and Buzek. All right. I would like to ask Glyn Horn, acting Co-Chief of
Police and Emergency Management, and Michael Millage, Senior Manager of Commuter Rail Contracted
Services, to present this item. Welcome, gentlemen. You may proceed.
GLYN HORN: Thank you, Chair Ruscha. As described, we're here to discuss the contracted security
services. And I'll start like this with a brief overview. So the current security contract with Allied Universal
security service sunsets on June 30, 2025. The current contract with Allied was a three-year contract with
three one-year options. It was awarded on July 11, 2019, following an open and competitive solicitation
process.

The initial contract term expired on June 30, 2022, and followed three separate Board approvals. The
agency executed each of the three options. Again, we are in the third and final option year that sunsets
on June 30, 2025. No additional contract options remain available. RTD is seeking a new solicitation
which will entail an open and competitive procurement process that will consist of a request for proposals
from qualified vendors.
Again, staff is seeking approval of the summary of scope of work for solicitation as well as authorization
for the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter a contract for security services. And as many
of you know, the police department is increasing our staff. And by doing so, that has enabled us to have a
cost savings from scaling down the RTD security contract of the past two years. The intent of the
successor contract will support RTD PD's efforts to grow its police department.
And one thing I want to stress with this new security contract is that the majority of the security personnel
will be unarmed, which is an adjustment from the existing contract. It's important to stress that Transit
Police and security, we work in partnerships. And this model of RTD and a third-party vendor increases a
greater sense of personal security and safety amongst the employees, customers, and the overall
community.
And even the contracted security provides a great level of security service, again, for employees,
facilities, and numerous properties. Security has been successful in de-escalating and resolving issues
and also offering customer support along the system. Additionally, this contract will provide for a second
crew member as required by 49 CFR Part 218.
The primary reason for two-person crew requirements is to enhance the safety by allowing for better
communication, monitoring of conditions, and response to potential issues during training operations. And
the second crew member also serves as fare inspectors on board commuter rail consist. RTD has great
partnerships with other law enforcement agencies. One example of that is secondary employment, which
we currently utilize. Mostly it's Denver, Lakewood, Aurora, and Thornton. [AUDIO OUT] Am I getting a lot
of feedback?
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're fine. Someone was unmuted.
GLYN HORN: OK, sorry. And what these agencies do for us, they provide additional, especially patrol
services. They monitor RTD facilities. When certain issues arise, they'll ride buses and trains sometimes
in uniform, plain clothes, and most importantly, they are deployed based on the needs of RTD. We also
have great partnerships-- [AUDIO OUT]
Sorry about that. We also have great partnerships with our federal partners such as the VIPR team, which
is the Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response team, which is basically an extension of TSA. And for
those that don't know, they helped us out immensely at Denver Union Station when fentanyl, and et
cetera, was extremely rampant in the area. And they also provide resources for us, such as detection of
weapons and explosives.
And the last partnership I'll speak of is our partnership with the FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force, again,
another federal partner that enables us to receive classified information and greatly assist us with asset
protection of critical infrastructure. And again, they are just an oversight of the security works, big picture.
So again, we're just requesting for approval for the summary of scope for solicitation for the contracted
security service. And I'll be happy to answer any questions.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, you're muted.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I was muted. OK, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: It was kind of nice.
JOYANN RUSCHA: [LAUGHS] You're out of order, Director Buzek. [LAUGHS] All right. So with that, we
will take questions first. Thank you, Mr. Horn, for entertaining us this evening. I'm going to go ahead and
ask for questions first, again, just clarifying questions, and then we'll get into discussion if needed. So I
don't know who raised their hand first, but I did see Director Paglieri, so I will go ahead and recognize
you. You're recognized, sir.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair Ruscha. And thank you, Co-Chief, for your presentation. And I will
be requesting more discussion on this this evening, Chair. But I will stick to my question which is, more or
less, will we see a final number of how much this contract will cost before signing into an agreement with
the provider? Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will go ahead. I see that our General Manager and CEO has her hand raised. So,
Ms. Johnson, you're recognized please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. So the action that's before you tonight is seeking
approval for a summary scope of work, as well as delegation to enter into a contract. Just by way of
background, relative to this Board putting forward a request to see summary scopes of work, keeping in
mind that we want to have an open and fair solicitation, we are providing an overview of what will be
contained within a summary scope of work, not the specificity in reference to certain tasks and
deliverables and things of the like because that wouldn't provide an open and fair competition relative to
standard procurement practices.
And so, in relationship to the question, simply put, that was not what we had put forward as a request
before you. But if that is the desire of the Board, then it could be a two-step approach as well as we go
forward. Thanks.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Whitmore, I saw your hand up earlier. Did you
want to speak?
TROY WHITMORE: It was not a question. I will wait for the appropriate time. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. OK, Director Nicholson, do you have a question for us-- or not for us,
but for staff?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I do have a question for staff, actually. I was wondering, just for Co-Chief, CoInterim Acting-- I screw it up all the time. I'm so sorry. [LAUGHS] Chief Horn, can you help walk me
through a little bit in terms of the FRA and the use of the second crew member there? Because you
mentioned it and I'm still not very familiar with how that works with regard to security because in terms of
what role they play in that and how that complements what the Allied contract is going to do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, if I may? I know Director Nicholson-JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely, go ahead.

DEBRA JOHNSON: --directed this to Dr. Horn, but I think this is more suitable from an operational
vantage point. And so for all intents and purposes, when RTD commenced with its operation with the
contracted services, the concessionary agreements with the A, B, and G Line, I would say, that there was
not any foresight relative to ensuring that there was a two-crew member, considering that this agency had
traditionally operated light rail that falls under the auspices of the Federal Transit Administration.
In reference to going forward and working with the concessionaire, RTD put forward a model that is
recognized and approved in the operational plan. That was submitted to the Federal Railroad
Administration that calls out relative to Code of Federal Regulations 49 Part 218, that in fact, there needs
to be a secondary crew member recognizing that this is not analogous to operating a bus, that you have a
lead car, and that you could have subsequent following cars, that there needs to be an individual that's
not responsible for the operation of the consist that could address matters outside of operational needs.
As we go forward, we have leveraged security to serve as that second crew member, in addition to
operating as a fare inspector. This is required of all railroads that are carrying passengers. You see this
with intercity passenger rail, as well as with commuter rail. And as we go forward, recognizing that we do
not have the personnel and as it's outlined in our operating agreement that was submitted to the Federal
Railroad Administration for concurrence and sign-off, that's how it's specified.
I see Mr. Jensen has come on camera. And, sir, please feel free to correct any statement that I may have
made which didn't capture the essence of what we're doing with the FRA.
DAVE JENSEN: Chair Ruscha, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely.
DAVE JENSEN: I really don't have much more to offer. I think that Ms. Johnson summarized it very well.
It's a requirement of the FRA, the federal government, to have a two-person crew, and the contract
requires it as she said. So we could talk about the specific duties and responsibilities, but that would be
getting into the weeds quite a bit. But they do serve the function as a second crew person as regulated by
the FRA.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Ms. Johnson, your hand is still up. Oh, OK. Director Benker, you are
recognized.
KAREN BENKER: I thank you, Madam Chair. Two questions. I'm looking at the Transit Police and
Emergency Management section of the budget, and it shows that we're going to be hiring 73 new officers,
I assume, this year. Could you explain to me then how we're going to have a dual system? So we're going
to have our own employees, and then we're also contracting for security services? Or is the goal to make
them all RTD employees in the next year or two? I guess that's my question. So we've got two different
operations going-- one RTD employees, one a security contract,
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may Madam Chair?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Benker, for the question. Currently, RTD has the
model whereby we have security. We have two types. We have transit security specialists and transit
security officers. The officers are ones that are armed. Recognizing where we are without getting too

ahead of myself, the intent here, relative to what you saw on the budget, is to offset some of the costs
going forward relative to building out our own police force.
And so as we look at putting out a solicitation with various options without showing my hand considering
that we need to work on a scope of work for open and fair competition for proposals to be submitted, the
whole element is building out additional police officers to handle more of the specific needs that we need
around the system. From a policing vantage point, the security personnel would assist-- and Dave Jensen
can speak to this as this would be under his auspices with light rail-- but serve as those fare inspectors on
light rail and helping to mitigate other issues that may take place on our rolling stock.
KAREN BENKER: OK. To make sure I understand. So the goal is they will, at some point, all become
RTD employees. And this would be a short-term contract?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So when we say a short-term contract, can you qualify that for me? Because I don't
want to make an assumption.
KAREN BENKER: Maybe no shorter than-JOYANN RUSCHA: If I could, Director Benker, you're free to dialogue. Director Benker, hold on a second.
You two may go ahead and dialogue until your questions have been answered. Proceed, please. [?
Good. ?]
KAREN BENKER: Well, my question then, clearly is at what point do we make the transition from contract
to RTD employees?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So basically, we will assess that as we go forward. But where we are currently
situated, we do not have the infrastructure in place relative to absorb. If you keep in mind where we are
in-- Chief Horn could speak to this as well-- but relative to having a source of space with designated
locations, right now, we have our police department as a subset of one of our operating divisions as we
go forward,
And recognizing where we are holistically, making other informed decisions about fare collection with an
open system as we look to create a welcoming transit environment, it is our intent to have some aspects
of our system be closed, which would necessitate some-- when I say closed system, let me clarify. We
have an open system whereby you do not need to use fare media to access fare gates to our Access
transit vehicles.
And in relationship to a welcoming transit environment, we brought forward to this Board, and there was a
Board resolution whereby we talked about going forward that there could be the closure of the bus
concourse whereby anyone entering it would need to have adequate fare media. Therefore, you would
need to have the same number of personnel. So while I can't say the time period in a finite way because
there's other elements that are ongoing, basically, for all intents and purposes, it's probably likely that this
contract would be in a three-yearish time frame.
KAREN BENKER: OK. And one more quick question. Would all of these folks then also be responsible for
fare inspection?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Would all of them be responsible for fare inspection? So yes.
KAREN BENKER: OK, thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: And just as a clarifying point too because I didn't say it as well as I should have, we
will need to supplement with contracted services throughout the term of the contract. So I just wanted to
make sure I ended with that because I said it in a kind of skewed way. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, both. All right. It is 6:46 for the record. And we will proceed and let
everyone have a chance to get their questions in. Director Nicholson, I think. Or I'm sorry. I'm not sure
who raised their hand first. But I'll go ahead and call on you, Director Nicholson, and then Director
Chandler, you're next. Thank you very much.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: All right. I have a very quick question. GM/CEO Johnson, how confident are you
that this contract will stay within the budget that you have allocated here? Is there any chance that you'll
be coming back in two months or three months or six months and asking for 15% more in order to fulfill
the cost of the contract?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I can say most certainly we wouldn't come back in two months because we wouldn't
have a contract within two months.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: But do you expect that there's any reason-JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry, my apologies. Do you expect that there's any reason that-JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Nicholson, would you like to ask a follow-up question?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: My apologies. Yes, I would.
JOYANN RUSCHA: You may proceed.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Still getting good at this. I'm genuinely not used to it. GM/CEO Johnson, is there
any circumstance under which this contract would require additional funds?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Recognizing that we're before you this evening, are you talking about the existing
contract that we currently have?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So that you're asking to allocate additional funds-- to allocate funding. This agenda
item asks for, I think it's $3 million, or to go out and solicit for a contract with Allied, correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, that's incorrect, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I apologize.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Basically, what I want to clarify for everybody assembled what we are seeking here,
we anticipate putting forward a solicitation going forward. Now, keeping in mind in relationship of where
we are with this contract sunsetting June 30, there is a possibility that we would need an extension
contingent upon what this Board decides to do going forward.
Because right now, we're in February and the contract sunsets at the end of June, we're basically talking
about four months in reference to having an open, fair competition and negotiating with a successor
vendor. And so basically, there could be the possibility where I have to come back to this body and ask

for a contract extension, and there could be some funds associated with that. But for all intents and
purposes, those funds may be, I would say, a wash relative to where we are with a successor contract
because that may start later and may not start on July 1 if we had to extend.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK. I do have a further question-JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: --but I'll ask outside the meeting.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Uh-huh, thank you. OK, I'm actually going to pause for a second. Director Chandler,
thank you for being patient. I'm going to ask is our General Counsel on this call tonight.
DEBRA JOHNSON: She is.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Ms. Snyder, I'm going to call on you. And I think this might help address what I'm
sensing [LAUGHS] was happening in this meeting. But could you just briefly educate us? Under the
delegation of authority, what matters does RTD need to bring before us that would not otherwise be
covered in the delegation of authority? I guess more specifically, I'm asking are we seeing this action
item, which is just a request to put out a bid for services, is that because it is required under our current
delegation of authority as it's a security matter?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Chair Ruscha, for the question. This is Melanie Snyder, General
Counsel. So under the Board's delegation of authority to the GM and CEO, there are certain carve-outs
where the Board has said that the GM and CEO needs to come to the Board in advance of posting a
solicitation and get approval of the summary scope of work that will be posted. And also, the Board needs
to approve the contract.
So this recommended action before you is attempting to do both of those things in one action. The carveouts have to do with contracted security services, not our secondary police officers that we retain, just the
services that Allied provides currently. Contracted services is one area. Lobbyist contracts is another
area. And then consulting services for major studies, so things like our Northwest Rail Feasibility Study
that was done, or the Facilities and Fleet Transition Plan. Those are the subject-matter carve-outs.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, General Counsel Snyder. Director Chandler, thank you for being patient.
You're recognized.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Chairman Ruscha. And thank you very much, Ms. Snyder. You
actually may have answered my question. I might ask for another clarifying question because that actually
was my question. The Allied question before us about Allied is also not only just the scope of work, but it's
also authorizing the contract. So we're doing both of those things at this one time. And that is correct. Am
I right?
MELANIE SNYDER: Chair, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that is correct. And this is actually consistent with other recommended actions
that are under those delegation carve-outs. That's also the similar approach that staff has taken so that
the Board doesn't have to hear the matter twice.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: All right. So that clarification is that tonight would not only be validating the
scope of work but then allowing CEO Johnson to enter into contract with whoever she chooses under that
same scope of work.
MELANIE SNYDER: Chair, if I may? I do see-JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MELANIE SNYDER: --CEO's hand raised. Just to answer the question quickly.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: That is correct. The Board with this action is authorizing and approving the summary
scope of work that will be included with the solicitation, and also authorizing our GM and CEO after the
agency goes through the competitive solicitation process, authorizing her or her delegate to sign the
contract.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Ms. Snyder. Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, I just wanted to clarify for the record because when the question first was
asked by Director Chandler, she mentioned Allied Security and said for this contract with Allied Security.
We do not know who this contractor would be. And I just wanted to state that for the record. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. This is Director Paglieri. What I would like to do, I think, is put forth
an amendment, and then have discussion on the amendment to save time instead of discussing it and
then proposing.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If you'd like to offer an amendment, you may.
BRETT PAGLIERI: OK. I would like to offer an amendment to change the language from "for the Board of
Directors to approve the summary scope of work for solicitation, and to subsequently authorize the
General Manager and GM/CEO or her designee to enter into a contract for security services." I think I
would like to amend that to strike the second part which is to be removed-- "and to subsequently
authorize the General Manager and CEO and her designee to enter into the contract for security
services."
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. That is a valid motion to amend, and that's accepted. Do we have a
second?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think that was Director Nicholson. Was that what I heard?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Correct.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, sir. OK, so we have a motion on the table and a second to essentially
strike the subsequent authorization to enter into a contract, which would require the GM/CEO to come
back at a future date and ask for us to award said contract to whomever was chosen through the process.
I see a few hands up for discussion. Director Paglieri, I'll let you go first because this was your proposed
amendment. You may speak.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. Chair Yes, so to be transparent, the reason I'm doing this is GM/CEO
Johnson said that we could potentially do this earlier in the meeting. And I think for a contract of this
scope with so many eyes on it, it is, one, it's very important to get the ball rolling in allowing the General
Manager to begin the process of this. And then, two, is I'd much prefer to express our obligation to vote
and actually approve these large contracts.
And then and some background, there's additional concerns that I have that I have chosen not to include
in the amendment language. Specifically, when I was running my campaign, I got a lot of feedback from
both operators and transit users that they didn't feel like the RTD had a presence on the system.
Specifically, over in my district on the W line, you don't really ever see security officers, whether that's
contracted or not. That's mostly due to the fact that light rail vehicles do not require a second employee or
whatever it's called, as the commuter rail is required as was discussed earlier.
And I really would like to see that changing. So when you go to Union Station and you see the contracted
security hanging out, sitting in their vehicles, appearingly, not doing anything-- which is an easy
accusation to make when you don't have background on what they may actually be doing-- I would have
included language that said we should look at really measuring how many contacts this contracted
security makes on the light rail, and the bus vehicles, and other vehicles as well amongst the system so
we can really get them on board, and get people who ride the system to see them and have a presence.
As well as something that could probably just be discussed as a study session, but switching from fare
enforcement to fare collection, so really focusing on just collecting fares from people across the system,
especially on lines like the W where there is not a dedicated person that also in their off time collects
fares. Because as you mentioned, that the number one purpose of the person is on the commuter rails,
the second employee is not to collect fares, it's to provide safety and other things, but they do collect
fares, and I would like to see that on other lines.
So thank you for bearing with me. I would welcome your support to just allow us to vote on this again.
And I might recommend, Chair, that we put a placeholder on the following March and April and maybe
even May meetings so if a contract needs to be voted on quickly, we have it on the agenda to do that if
that's possible. And my final thought is I would really like to know the final cost of this contract before
approving it and significant details.
And I believe that we can do that in privileged executive session. So if we could potentially be presented
some information that why we're choosing one contract over the other, that the public entrusts us and the
agency to make those decisions that is not public information, I would appreciate that. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Paglieri. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I wanted to both echo that a little bit, but also to say that I trust GM/CEO
Johnson implicitly to make this kind of decision. But one of the things that I heard extensively on the
campaign trail-- probably the most important issue to the voters in my district-- was security by leaps and
bounds. It came up in practically every conversation that I had.

And so I think that by taking the time to learn about the contract on offer, to share our thoughts, to engage
on this issue in a significant manner is a way of both deepening our own understanding about what's
going on and the choices that get made, as well as demonstrating to the public that we are providing
oversight on something that they have decided is extremely important. So that's why I support Director
Paglieri's motion. But if push came to shove, I think that GM/CEO Johnson is more than capable of
choosing a good contract.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Director Chandler, you're recognized.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Chairman Ruscha. I agree. I don't particularly want to know all of
this. I believe that that's why we have a CEO. So although I like the spirit of this, Director Paglieri, I don't
think that it's really appropriate. Perhaps if we need to talk more about the scope of work, or we as
Directors need to learn more about the scope of work. But I would hope that we would come with the
scope of work and not be voting on the individual contract. I think that's why we have a CEO.
So although I understand the spirit of what you're asking, I just think that at this time it would be
inappropriate. I would hope that if we have additional questions about the actual dollars or all of that, we
can discuss that. But as far as asking a double vote, I would be against that because truly, it's not our
place to know those details. That's why we have a CEO.
It is ours to come up with, yes, we like the scope of work, and, yes, we agree with what we're trying to
accomplish. I too-- I ran on safety and security. Those are my biggest things. And so by no means am I
putting this aside. So probably maybe we need to tighten up the scope of work. But I don't think we need
to push that back onto us as Directors or take that away from the CEO.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Chandler. Do we have anyone? I see your hand is raised,
Director Paglieri. Is it raised again or was that left over from before?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. It was raised again.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. So I will call you in a moment. I will just note for the record that
sometimes we do this in one swoop and other times, we do this in two steps. Traditionally, I think when it
comes to security contracts, they come in two steps. But I have only been on the Board-- I'm entering my
third year-- and some of those previous votes were special circumstances or extensions and the like.
So it is possible that prior to me being on this Board, we did have both a summary scope of work and an
authorization in one action item. That being said, I will take Chair's privilege and just note that I am in
support of this amendment. And I think it's more than appropriate, and we can handle it either way.
Director Paglieri, I'll let you go ahead and close unless Director Nicholson really needs to offer one more
point. Let's see if we can wrap it up. Director Paglieri, you're recognized.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. Chair. Just to clarify my position, the reason I struck this from the proposal
amendment-- the reason I did my amendment was because I would like this to be a two-step process just
so we can vote on the large contract. The additional things I was saying was mostly background and
other requests that I can fulfill in my duties as a Director individually. But mostly, I ask that we do this so
we can start the process.
And then it'll be an over $2 million contract. When a multi-million dollar contract comes forward, we can
vote on that. I'm not asking to actually vote on which contract we pick. I do trust the CEO to do that. I just

want to vote on the final number as sometimes we have done in the past as you said, Thank you very
much. And also, it looks like Chris did raise his hand. Thanks
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Paglieri. So if this motion passes with the amendment on the
table, then RTD would come back with the contract amount and they would also have a recommended
vendor as well because they would have gone through that process. Director Nicholson, if you could wrap
it up, or actually, I'll also take Director Chandler. Let's just try to keep our comments to one minute or less.
Go ahead.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: 30 seconds even. I just wanted to clarify. And maybe GM/CEO Johnson can jump
in and answer this. If we do strike that second part, then it's not changing your standard delegation of
authority. So any contract under $2 million, you would just be able to do the way you normally would. Any
contract over $2 million, you would bring it to the Board the way that you normally would. So this isn't
really doing anything special. It just requires you to go through the normal process for any large contract.
Is that correct?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, that would be accurate relative to the delegation of $2 million. But just to clarify
to the point, what Director Chandler spoke of, we were trying to do this in a two-step recognizing where
we are. And I want to touch upon your earlier question. Chances are, with the two-step approach, we
would have to come back for a contract extension, recognizing the steps. So I just wanted to clarify that
because I said at the outset I couldn't answer your question, but recognizing the selection of the vendor,
there will be transition.
And also, there was a comment made that we could put this on the calendar for March or April. I cannot
go forward with a summary scope of work until this is approved by the Board. The Board meeting is
February 24. The soonest I can get out a solicitation would be in March. And so keeping in mind that it'd
be out on the streets for 30 days, people have to submit proposals, so for all intents and purposes, it
looks as if we will have an extension of this current contract. So I just want to manage all his
expectations. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, again, Chair Ruscha. And actually, that was my point. My question
was really what is the time frame? Are we going to be able to accomplish what you're asking us to do?
And, Director Paglieri, I understand your reasoning. I totally agree that it would be really great to vote on
those two things. And perhaps if we had more time, I'm not sure if that could be accomplished.
But I also understand that this might cause additional cost because we would have to extend a contract
before we could cause a contract to be bid and engaged within that time frame. So I understand your
heart for this amendment. I'm actually more inclined to vote for it now that you've explained it a little bit
better. But I also am very concerned about the cost and the time frame. So I ask that we all thoughtfully
think that through before we vote.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Director Chandler. And to that point, I'm going to need to phone a friend.
Mr. Kroll, can you kindly remind when we typically take a break for meetings since I know we're about
approaching that time and I don't know if it was 7:00 or another time?

JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Ruscha, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office.
Typically, we aim to take a break right around the two-hour mark. And this is for purposes of affording the
CART transcription provider a break as that's a pretty demanding role. My recommendation is if you can
wrap this item and the subsequent item prior to breaking, great. But if that next item is going to go longer
than a half hour, you might as well take a break following the conclusion of this item.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you, sir. So we will go ahead and proceed and get through this action
item. And following that, I will actually call for a break a little bit early with the hopes that we can still
adjourn on time. So with that, I see no other hands raised. And we have a motion-- Oh, Director
Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just a very quick question for GM/CEO Johnson. If this amendment passes, would
you anticipate any additional costs for the process that you would undergo? And that was Director
Chandler's question as to this item. If this were to pass-- this amendment-- would that cause the contract
to cost more money or cause us to incur additional costs?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Committee Chair, Ruscha, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, please. Sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Simply put, no.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I actually have one final question for our General Counsel, Ms. Snyder.
Do security contracts come before the Board, irrespective of amount, under the delegation of authority, or
only when it exceeds $5 million?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you for the question. The security contracts have to come to the Board
irrespective of the amount. That's what I meant when I said there's a carve-out from the $2 million
delegation of authority to the GM and CEO. So all of those subject matter areas have to come to the
Board for approval.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. And they do tend to spark a little bit of discussion before we
proceed, from my recollection. So seeing no other hands raised, we are going to vote on the amendment
before us. And then we'll vote on the main motion. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director. Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Paglieri.

BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And I am a yes. So that motion to amend carries. And we are now back to the
original motion, as amended. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I just want to make a statement regarding the Co-Chief's presentation. Is this the
appropriate time?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, of course.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. So we've heard about the campaign trails, and I can assure you that we all
hear the same thing, even us six-year vets. Security is job one. I couldn't agree more. I think often I get
questioned about how does RTD work with other jurisdictions. It doesn't seem like you're getting any
support, or it seems like there's a misnomer out there that we're not utilizing the officers from Denver or
Aurora, and so on, and so forth.
So I just wanted to say to Co-Chief Horn, I appreciated your examples of our officers, our staff, what they
do, Allied, and then your examples of how we utilize local jurisdictions because without them, our overall
security force is minimized. So I appreciate you mentioning that. I don't think we mention that enough
when we're talking about security, that it's a team effort with local jurisdictions and our contractors, and
then, obviously, your officers as well, Co-Chief. So thank you for doing that. That's all I have, Madam
Chair.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Director Whitmore. And I will also add, Chief Horn, I neglected to
remember that you also have a doctorate, so I apologize. I'm messing up on syllables and titles today. But
thank you for being generous with your time and bearing with us today. So with that, I completely forgot
where we were in our procedure. [LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Main motion.
JOYANN RUSCHA: We're on the main motion. OK, thank you. I thought so. All right, so, Director Buzek,
how do you vote on the main motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. All right. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: With the amended, no.
JOYANN RUSCHA: That's a no. OK. Thank you, sir. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. OK, I have a yes. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I have you as a yes. And I am a yes. And so that motion will carry 5 to 2. Mr. Kroll,
how long do we usually break? Is it 5 or 10 minutes?
JACK KROLL: I think that's your discretion. I would recommend 10 minutes. That's typically what we've
provided the CART transcription staff.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, I am in need of a 10-minute break and a tall glass of water. So we are hereby
recessed at 7:13 PM, and we will recommence at 7:23. Thank you.
Cameras back on-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: --so I know you're here.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, I guess I should turn mine on back as well. I'm here. OK. Do we have our
quorum? We have a quorum. And we are now reconvened at 7:23 PM. I hope everyone had a good
break and attended to whatever you needed to attend to. So our third item for the evening is the light rail
vehicle cameras retrofit. And the recommended action before us is for the Board of Directors to authorize
the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with Confluence Security for the
purchase and installation of forward-facing, operator-facing, in-cab, and customer-compartment cameras
on 157 light rail vehicles for a total cost not to exceed $3 million. Do we have a motion?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Second.
IAN HARWICK: First.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Who is-- wait, I don't know what just happened. Who do we have? I heard Paglieri,
and whom else? Harwick, OK. And I think we just bent the laws of space-time, but I'll take it. All right, so I
would like to ask Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, to present this item. Sir,
you are recognized.
DAVE JENSEN: Thank you, Chair Ruscha. Good evening. As introduced, my name is Dave Jensen. I'm
the Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations. I have also asked staff to join us to answer any
questions that you may have. And so, as has been stated, I'm here this evening to recommend that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer or her designee to enter
into a contract with Confluence Security for the replacement of existing forward-facing, in-cab, operatorfacing, and customer-compartment cameras on 157 of our light rail vehicles. This is an order to be in
compliance with state regulation.

The contract is for the purchase of the cameras and installation work which can begin immediately at a
total not-to-exceed cost of $3 million. The budget for this exists in the 2025 budget, and no new funds are
being requested. For background, in accordance with Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations, or CFR, Part
674, the Federal Transit Administration, or FTA, has delegated its safety oversight responsibilities to the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission, or CPUC, who is responsible for the oversight of the safety of rail
fixed guideway systems within the state of Colorado.
On June 30, 2022, the CPUC revised number 4 of the Colorado Code of Regulations, 723-7, which is the
State Safety Oversight program standard for rail fixed guideway public transportation systems requiring
all Regional Transportation agencies, which applies to RTD, to install and use cameras on all light rail
vehicles to assist in the investigation of accidents and the management of safe light rail operations. This
is due no later than June 30, 2027.
By adopting this recommended action, RTD will be able to remain in compliance to state regulations and
further the 2021 to 2026 strategic plan priorities of community value, customer excellence, and financial
success by improving the ability to investigate events, accidents, increase public and employee safety,
and improve operational safety on the RTD light rail network. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with
you this evening. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. No questions from me. Do we have any questions? I see no
hands raised. All right. Any comments for discussion? No hands-- oh, Director Nicholson. All right, if we
can keep it to a minute or less.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I promise this won't be controversial. Mr. Jensen, are there any technical upgrades
that are going to come with these cameras? Are they super-high definition? Do they have zoom lenses? I
assume there's some actual improvements in the quality and stuff like that we're getting from it. I mean,
tell me in as much technical detail as you'd like because I'm a huge nerd.
DAVE JENSEN: Sure. Chair Ruscha, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Please, please.
DAVE JENSEN: I'm not a technical nerd so I won't be able to provide that level of detail. I can say,
though, that, yes, the purpose of this, is to upgrade the system that's currently in place. The PUC does
have specific technical requirements that we have to meet. And a lot of that has to do with just what you
talked. There's not ultra-zoom capabilities, but it is frame rates, refresh rates. It is HD quality, those those
types of things, crashworthiness. Those are the upgrades that are necessary for the system.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, sir. Director Nicholson, does that satisfy your question? I don't think
we're going to get airport-level camera security or whatnot, but it is certainly an upgrade. And my
understanding is that this is for 157 vehicles-- and Mr. Jensen, correct me if I'm wrong-- but the remainder
vehicles already meet our specification-- or are compliant with [LAUGHS] PUC rule. So we are-- yes, go
ahead, sir.
DAVE JENSEN: That is correct.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. All right, so seeing no further hands raised, I will actually ask if we have
any no votes on this recommended action. Any no votes? OK. Well with no votes, I will consider that
seven aye votes and we will just move by acclamation. This item has passed. For our fourth and final item

of the evening is the approval of the 2025 Operation Safety and Security Committee work plan. Do we
have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Moved.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Nicholson is the move.
TROY WHITMORE: I'll second it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Director Whitmore. Nicholson and Whitmore. OK, so I don't have any
particular additions to this item. I'm on the agenda to present it, but I feel like we have almost talked this
one to death, [LAUGHS] including a special meeting. I also sent out a notice earlier just making note of
the changes that will be made to the work plan, which is a calendar following our discussions and
discussions with staff. But with that being said, do we have any other comments either from staff-- I see
no hands raised-- or from Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: [LAUGHS] Sorry. Can you just present the work plan, or ask the staff to present the
version of the work plan that we're going to be approving or voting on or something?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Are you asking for staff to present the work plan that's in the packet? Is that what
you're asking?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Well, the reason I ask is you sent out an email, I think, earlier today or yesterday, or
it all bleeds together about changes to the thing. Are those changes part of the item that we are voting on
here, or are they going to be added to it afterward? Or how does that work?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Thank you, Director Nicholson. So I will go ahead and just pull up that email so I
can read it for the record if that helps. But as we've kind of noted, our work plan is a calendar, and that
calendar is subject to change. But it definitely is something that is a signal of where we're going, what we
can expect this year. And, of course, where things have broad consensus, that's also noted. Mr. Kroll, I
see your hand. Did you want to read the bullet list in my email, or may I? I'm going to go ahead and
proceed if not.
OK. All right. Just give me one moment here. Clearly, I have limited rate of return after 7:00. Here we go.
OK, so in addition, so the work plan that is in the packet was wrapped up Wednesday, I believe. And then
that was published on Friday. But that work plan was already in the queue before we even had our
special meeting last Thursday.
So with that, I just sent a follow-up note to the committee-- and it's more than appropriate to reference it
for the record here-- is that we have moved the Service Planning and Evaluation Standards to March, and
it's an action item. It'll be a three-Director-initiated item. It's possible it will change, but we'll keep it on the
calendar for now as a heads-up. And we'll let you know if anything changes before March. And then we
struck the May discussion item. If we need to go back and discuss, we'll, of course, read that to the
calendar. But we're not going to have a discussion for discussion's sake.
The P task with an external entities presentation has been added by yours truly for July. That will be a
very brief presentation. We have included Director Chandler for our Customer Bill of Rights, which we
know the title is a working title. It will probably be changed. But my understanding is that Director
Chandler is working on that with Director Paglieri.

We removed the uncalendared IT update and then added real-time communications as a discussion item
in May. And that is per Director Nicholson's request at our special OSS meeting, in which GM/CEO
Johnson concurred and said that she and staff would be happy to present on real-time communications
and a plan moving forward at our May meeting.
Additionally, I did request-- and this was actually noted in last night's meeting live-- I requested that F and
P consider the East Colfax BRT External Entities Report because that item would fall under either
committee, and they seem to have a little bit more room on our calendar. F and P Chair Guzman was
very kind and offered to assist in making room on their calendar if they can. If they can't, we will go ahead
and find room on ours in here in committee. But either committee is more than qualified to hear that
discussion item. And of course, we can always join other committees when we choose.
And then there was an email that was sent out to our paratransit customers about a potential action item
in March to hear recommended changes on our On-Demand program. However, as stated earlier in this
meeting, that action item will not come before us until May. And so with that, I would just say as a kindly
reminder, an action item can be added in one of three ways. The Chair can add it. The General Manager
or CEO also has that privilege. Or three Directors can commence with the three-Director-initiated action
and get the requisite signatures, and then the Board Office will notify the Chair and staff if and when that
occurs. So with that, do we have any questions? Oh, Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair Ruscha. I just had a question pertaining
to the P task with an external entity. Could you expound on that? That's the first I'm hearing of it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, absolutely. This was noted in previous notes. But it's been a few weeks, so I will
go ahead and clarify. So what I mentioned prior is that we will consider, as permitted, if appropriate,
external entities to provide transit industry insight as well as continuing education. And so my intent is to
invite either the PUC as our SSOA-- sorry, that's State Safety Oversight Agency-- to present, or
potentially A2 International, as they had a pretty solid presentation at the last APTA conference. So I
hope that provides some context. It would be a very brief presentation, and I scheduled it so that it would
occur before we present and then vote on our own.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you for the-JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, thank you. And also that is subject to folks' availability and time on the calendar.
So it is a placeholder for now. But we'll certainly entertain that in the next few months. Director Nicholson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I was just going to say thank you for the clarification because when I saw Public
Transportation Agency Safety Plan, that's something we produce. But you mean in a general sense of
things.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Director Nicholson, I see your hand first.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'll defer to General-- sorry, to Mr. Kroll. [LAUGHS] There we go.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, Mr. Kroll, I don't know if you're about to get promoted to General Manager or
General Counsel, but you're recognized, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: [LAUGHS]

JACK KROLL: Well, thank you, Committee Chair Ruscha. I just had a question about the changes you
were seeking to the work plan for March. In March, I had previously had an action item stated policy
clarifying paratransit eligibility relative to changes to local fixed-route bus service. And then there was a
discussion item slated for March indicating the review of RTD transit service policies and standards. And
so one of are those two things needs to remain and/or change.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I might have been looking at a different version because we've had
multiple drafts circulating. So in March, we will hear an action item. That is the plan regarding service
standards and planning and just that schedule because when we talked about this at the retreat, we had
hoped for a discussion item prior to voting on the service changes. But because of the calendar, that was
a bit of a bottleneck, however. So that would be a placeholder, but it'd be an action item. So you would
change the discussion item to an action item, and then the paratransit action item remains as is. Director
Guzman, you're recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I just wanted to affirm what you had said earlier too about East Colfax
BRT. Shout-out to Director Paglieri who attended a meeting in my district last night and was there
representing RTD. But we are happy to take that under Finance and Planning. We will work with the
committee to make sure that we schedule that appropriately. And I will definitely ensure that you are
aware of when we will have that discussion. And that way, everybody can get the updates.
If you are unable to attend a committee meeting, please remember that you can review them later on
YouTube, or you can simply click on the transcripts as they're posted at the same place we have our
agendas publicly available after the meetings, usually pretty timely. But I will make sure that gets
communicated back to Operations Safety and Security Committee as well. Thanks.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And thank you for being generous with our time so that we can get
our homework done as well. Any other Directors? You know, I'm going to go ahead and yield to General
Manager and CEO Ms. Johnson first, and then we'll get to you, Director Nicholson. Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you, Committee Chair. Just one comment. I know that there was an
adjustment-- you made reference in your earlier comments-- relative to service standards. That's a threeDirector-initiated action. And so just wanted to understand. Are the Directors crafting service standards?
And I'm not trying to be cheeky with it. I'm trying to understand because staff is in the midst of working on
that. But as I outlined earlier, that we would not be in a position to bring that forward in March recognizing
the production period with Board materials and things of the like. So just wanted to ensure that I and my
team have an understanding of what the expectation is since this is an action item.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, ma'am. No problem. So no, we are not crafting Service Planning standards.
That would be well above our pay grades. I did send you a memo about this prior, but that action item-and, again, it's still in draft form-- but for everyone's edification, that action item would simply require that
the Board of Directors to approve our Service Planning standards every odd year.
So currently, we actually do have a policy that states we will review and approve every other year. But
we've fallen out of compliance with our own Board policy. So we're just restarting that old process
bringing us under compliance. And that would commence every other July. It's possible because of the
COA or other considerations, we might make that a triennial process. So we'll follow up with staff on the
best way to do that. And then additionally, we've had a lot of discussion about our evaluation metrics that
are related to service standards. That's a report that was previously produced up and through COVID and
then just fell away.

Several Directors have indicated they'd like to see that come back. And so that action item-- and, again,
it's just a draft, and we'll have discussion with staff, and the committee will have ample time to see the
language-- that also just stipulates that those reports will recommence annually starting in July, giving
staff five months time to make any enhancements or changes they would like to that report. Previously,
we had hoped to see that last year, last April, but for various reasons, we just weren't able to get that off
the ground and to hear that item. So that's all it is. We're not touching Service Planning standards.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, thank you for the clarification. And I do know that I have-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, I was saying thank you. I do know I have emails in my queue. But recognizing
my day-to-day, I did not have a chance. I still haven't gotten through email. So thank you for providing me
with that clarification.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely. And I can imagine your box is overloaded more than ours. And I know
mine is. So thank you for that, and thank you for your grace. We will definitely continue to work on this in
collaboration. Director Nicholson, I see your hands raised.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you, Co-Chair Ruscha. I just wanted to call out the incredible
yeomanesque amount of work that our Co-Chairs and Co-Chair Ruscha, in particular, did in preparing this
work plan. I know there's a lot of agenda items on there, and there's been a lot of back and forth, owing in
no small part to a lot of emails from me.
And I just wanted to thank our Co-Chair who has taken this work plan process extremely seriously, and
who has really shown up in a way that, in my time observing the RTD Board, I think has more dedication
to engaging with all of us in an open way than a lot of folks have. So I really appreciate the work you put
in on this, and the place we got to, and the process that was involved, and your patience with me as a
new Director in learning how all this works.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Nicholson. Your kind words are noted. Although I would be
remiss if I did not say that it's Chair Harwick that does all the heavy thinking. I'm just here for comedic
relief. And with that, I see no other hands raised. I think we can go ahead and vote. Do we have any no
votes on this recommended action?
Seeing none, I will consider that seven yes votes and the motion passes. And with that, if I'm not
mistaken-- because now my script is quite out of order with all the notes I've taken-- that would conclude
our action items for the evening. And with that, I will open we'll move on to other matters. Do we have any
Directors who wish to speak under other matters? Oh, Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair, we still have a discussion item relative to the service changes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, my favorite part. I am so sorry. [LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, I'm good to move on to other matters.
[LAUGHTER]

JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, we're getting slaphappy because it's after 7:45. OK. And I should almost turn this
over to Chair Harwick. [LAUGHS] He looks a little more awake than I am. So with that, I, again, have
totally lost my script. But we do have a discussion item, which is the May service changes proposal. And
this is for discussion only. And so I'm in the wrong part of my script. Actually, here we are. Mr. Fred
Worthen, Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations, and Mr. Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service
Development can now present this item.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Chair Ruscha. Fred Worthen, AGM, Bus Operations, once again. As is
customary, we are bringing forth a preview of what we intend to bring to the Board for the May 2025
service changes. Again, this is a preview only. We still have public meetings that are scheduled before we
finalize our recommendations. However, I will ask Jessie Carter, our Senior Manager of Service
Development, to discuss our proposals as they stand right now. Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, thank you, Mr. Worthen. Can everyone hear me? OK. Again, my name is Jessie
Carter. I'm the Senior Manager of Service Development. What's typical in May, we do have a number of
changes that happen every year around this time. And those typically involve seasonal changes to tripper
service and volume of service on certain routes that actually go by, either things that turn off during
summer or schools and/or institutions of higher education.
So there are a number of also maintenance issues that are being covered in this service change. And
then there are some more notable changes, and I'll give a few examples of that. And reference to time, I
don't want to anger Director Buzek any further because he was ready to move on to other matters. And I
do recognize that. That said, we have the a change proposed to add a trip onto the N Line, a later trip on
Fridays only.
We have increase of service on Route 16 which is West Colfax going to 10-minute headway frequency.
We also have a proposal to increase service frequency on the Route 73 to 15-minute service, and the
reintroduction of the Free MetroRide, which operates in the Downtown area on 18th and 19th Streets.
Also included is increasing service for weekday service span on the Nederland-Boulder service. So with
that, I would like to ask Fred, did you have any other further comments before opening to questions?
FRED WORTHEN: No, sir. Thank you, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you both. And thank you, Mr. Carter. I apologize. I didn't mean to skip
over you at the end. Service Planning and routes are actually one of my favorite topics, so deeply
apologize. With that, do we have-- Oh, Director Whitmore. You're recognized.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Thank you, Jessie, and Fred. I don't want to stall
Director Buzek too long, but I think he might be interested in this question. So you're adding another late
service on the N Line on Friday which we've been hearing about that for quite some time. And I applaud
that. It's wonderful. Why just Friday and not Saturday? I'm just curious if we have numbers that say
Fridays is far busier than Saturdays. Because I know a lot of that crowd. It's the entertainment and sports
crowd. Just curious for Jessie, or Fred, if you have any view of that.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair Ruscha, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, absolutely. Go ahead.

JESSIE CARTER: OK. Director Whitmore, I believe on Saturday, we currently do run a little bit later than
we do on Friday.
TROY WHITMORE: We already do, yeah.
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. Yeah. So the Friday trip was, as you had mentioned, but has been requested for
quite some time. So right now when we look at that last trip on Friday, it shows it's heavily utilized. So we
do feel pretty confident that the later trip will perform well also based on the fact that it does on Saturday.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, if I can? I apologize forgetting about the Saturday edition, Jessie. I
appreciate that. You can tell I'm not a night owl and out there on the N Line on those late nights anymore.
Thank you for your time.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you for the question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you both. OK, Director Paglieri. I see your hand.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. Quick question and a comment. Thank you very much. I look
forward to having 16 10-minute headways. That'll be very exciting. Thank you for your work. A quick
question on the 20. Let me make sure I'm looking at the right one. It says Route 20, seasonal service
adjustment. Do you, off the top of your head, have in front of you, know what seasonal service adjustment
the 20 would be doing?
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, please, proceed.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, so with the Route 20, we have seasonal tripper service for the East High School.
And when it goes into summer session, we suspend that service until fall. Then we bring it back. And if
you're asking if I know the exact trip, it's far too late in the evening for me to know that.
[LAUGHTER]
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll go ahead and piggyback off that. Mr. Carter, on packet page 19, there is a note
that Route 20 will have schedule adjustments to improve on-time performance. I'm not sure if there is
because sometimes we have the same route in different sections. Yeah, I see also on packet page 20,
there is a reference to Route 20 and seasonal tripper service. So do we have, I guess, two adjustments
addressing two different needs?
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, yes. I'm going to answer yes to that. So if I'm reading packet page 22, it reads
schedule adjustments along with suspension of seasonal tripper service. So we're doing a running time
analysis along with the suspension of the tripper service.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, sir. Well, my packet page says 20. But at this point of the evening, I'm
not sure what my middle name is and it's part of my first name. But either way, I thank you for addressing
that. Director Paglieri, does that answer your question, sir?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes, thank you, Chair. And thank you, Mr. Carter, for answering that.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you for the question.

JOYANN RUSCHA: All right, thank you. I see Director Nicholson. I will recognize you, and then we will go
to Director Guzman.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So I really appreciated these recommendations-- fairly straightforward to me.
I actually had two primary questions related to the process more broadly and our ability to weigh in. What
is the proper point in this process if there is additional service that we want to see based on our
experiences to let you guys know? You know, hey, there is no L bus, for example, anymore from Denver
up to Longmont and that is something that the people in my districts have experienced, or I've
experienced, or that kind of thing.
It wasn't clear to me where we fit into that conversation of engaging with you and maybe getting feedback
from you guys about how that works and you listening to all of the Board members. I know I don't think
Director Benker is on at the moment. But she had expressed as well a very significant desire to have us
weigh in on not just the individual service changes that you put in front of us, but the ones that we want to
see as well and bringing those to you.
So I was wondering what that process looks like. And then the second question kind of on her behalf, but
also on mine-- who had to take a very long bus ride to get up to Longmont a while ago-- why isn't there an
LX bus, and when are we going to get one?
JESSIE CARTER: OK, I'll start with the first question. First, Chair, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, please.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, so the first question, as far as when is the appropriate time, it's the same as if I
were talking to a customer. So when we're in the process of taking in information for the official or
comment period for the service change. Yes, there is a defined time. However, we are hearing from
customers throughout the year. So in true honesty, there is no right time or wrong time. At any point in
time, you can put forward a suggestion.
Now, when it will actually be something that we can actually put into service is dependent upon available
resources, be that finances, but more importantly lately, when we have the operators available to actually
put that into service, and whether or not it fits with other opportunities. So when we look at our services,
we're not just looking at individual routes, but we're looking at the system as a network.
And so as we endeavor to implement the System Optimization Plan, we're going to look at how all the
different pieces fit together and whether or not we have interline opportunities which will further the
efficiency of our operation, or whether or not a certain division has the available operators over another
division. So we're looking at both opportunity and where it makes sense.
And then we also have to throw in there our knowledge or the data that supports ridership information, be
it from past, and current. So all those go into it. But we want to hear from the Board, we want to hear from
our customers at all times in the year. And I see Mr. Worthen has his hand up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, thank you, Chair Ruscha. I would also mention that recommendations are also
contingent upon our Title VI analysis as well. So there's a broad magnitude of things that we consider.
The LX is under consideration for later on in this year, potentially in September. But I would not say that is
a certainty yet. We're still evaluating our people power. We will look at the Title VI and go through the

priorities for the September service change. But right now, we have it preliminarily scheduled for review
for September.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Great.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Director Nicholson, does that answer your question, or do you have
one more follow-up?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I have a very quick follow-up question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Super quick.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: And very quick to answer. Mr. Carter, and I guess also, Mr. Worthen, but mostly,
Mr. Carter, would you be willing to meet with the Board in a study session as a group to hear our opinions
on service changes?
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, please.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, I'm going to defer to both my CEO and GM and also my AGM of Bus Operations
on whether or not that's something that would be appropriate for me as, you know, a lower-level staff
member to do. [LAUGHS] If it is, I have no problem with it. But I would certainly want to hear and be
informed by the chain of command.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Jessie Carter is the Salt of the Earth, for the record. [LAUGHS] In
fact, Ms. Johnson, would you actually care to address that? Because I believe we do have a planning
training coming up soon.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, go ahead. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Ruscha. And yes, you're right. We do have
a session topical. That is because recognizing Mr. Worthen's response relative to Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, as we talk about service equity, that's a critical piece. We have to ensure that there's
no disparate impact or disproportionate burden relative to minority and low-income populations. So that's
taking into consideration people power and things of the like.
So when we go through this process, quite naturally if there are opportunities, of course, we want to hear
comments from the Board. And we can assess whether or not it's a study session per se. But it should be
in alignment with the triannual periods in which we leverage for service changes here at this organization.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. I believe we also have some discussions on the COA coming up
later on this year in both primary standing committees if I'm not wrong. If not, we will head over to F and P
and hear it there. I'm going to go ahead and recognize Director Guzman. And then, Mr. Kroll, if you still
need to speak, we'll go to you next. Thank you, Director Guzman. Go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I'll be quick. Jessie, please thank your team on my behalf. One of the
first things that I heard about in the January changes was the loss of the peak trips on the 44. So we're

being heard in this district to get downtown. A question-- if this can be answered later too-- the 19 and the
52 currently are being impacted very heavily by the 20th Street Bridge work, which we have no control
over. However, the reroutes have caused quite a bit of misunderstanding about how those routes work,
especially along Navajo Street.
I'd like that to be addressed somehow. I'm not sure what that would look like. And the 19 drivers are often
stuck in that bus without being able to take their appropriate human breaks to attend to needs because of
that deviation in the route. And so consideration for that, as this is a discussion item, I would appreciate.
We want them focused and not in pain trying to get us to our next stop.
There's reference to the E, H, and D lines all running better frequency and more on time. With the Denver
downtown rail reconstruction work that's continuing this summer and any anticipated work that will be
done with slow zones, which are thankfully-- thank you very much to all of our Maintenance of Way
workers-- being lifted as quickly as humanly possible, are we taking that into consideration for the light rail
lines? The N line is one of the few ways on our commuter rail to get to Elyria and Swansea. Thank you for
adding that additional trip.
The number 9, thank you just from the West Side community because that's a little-used route. But it is
currently being built up around some very interesting things happening in the warehouse district past the
bridge from Kalamath over to Colfax. In fact, my job has required me to use that route and it's not efficient
to use. So I can't often work in that area unless I walk about 30 minutes to get where I need to be from
Colfax or from downtown. So thank you for addressing that.
Finally-- and I'm just going to put this out here-- in the Board packet, public hearings are being held on
March 3rd at noon, a virtual session, at March 3rd at 5:30 PM in person at Blake Street, and on March
4th, 5:30 to 6:30 for a virtual drop-in session. Somebody asked how you get information to Service
Planning. It's service.change@rtd-denver.com. That's the appropriate email. Or you can call Customer
Care at 303-299-6000. And that's how they get the information from the public and from us when we
receive that incoming email about something that's happened with the lines. So I just wanted to put that
out there for you all. And thank you very much for your hard work and consideration on those matters.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, thank you, Committee Chair Ruscha. I just wanted to briefly mention as you all have
now slated for your work plan, not only conversations around the current COA, but also the forthcoming
COA and the Finance and Planning Committee's work plan, you've also slated now for conversations
around the service policies and standards. And I think that's a more important way of looking at your
service changes as opposed to one-off individual routes or requests.
I think those will be consistent in their volume to you. But staff is going to always consistently have a
better understanding of things. And having a clear understanding and appreciation for your standards and
policies with respect to service changes, I think is the best way for you all to influence the service change
process.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for your feedback, Mr. Kroll. And I will consistently ask staff to check the
SOP and take the 43, run it down MLK so I can access it more easily. But despite being 1/15th of RTD's

government, that argument has gone nowhere. I will go ahead and go to Director Paglieri. I see your
hand. You are recognized. Proceed.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. This is Director Paglieri. I want to quickly say thank you, Director
Guzman, for echoing a lot of the things that also benefit my district on the West Side, and wanted to
quickly call attention to some issues with the 16. And looking forward, specifically, there's a really
inefficient loop around the Federal-Decatur Station that requires going from Federal to Decatur and
Holden. And they recently implemented a Dutch-style bike intersection, one of the first in the city of
Denver.
But unfortunately, we have articulated buses going through that intersection at Holden and Decatur, and it
is very difficult for the buses and for pedestrians, and for everyone involved. It also takes a lot of time to
go through that loop when you're just trying to go from the West Side to the Downtown-- just pulling
attention to that. And then something that I probably will be doing more on that in the future. So that's
some foreshadowing.
And then the other thing was I would like to learn more about how operators themselves report issues
while they're driving with routes, whether it's from potholes or to, for example, Holden and Decatur where
there's a ridiculously tight turn, and others, I think on the 9 as well, and the 1, and over on this side of
town. But if you could maybe include that in some of the training or just have it present in your head going
forward, And I'll bring it up at more appropriate times. But I just wanted to say that. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Paglieri. Mr. Carter, do you have anything else you wanted to
share? If not, I have a couple questions for you.
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. In response to Director Paglieri's question about how we hear from operators,
there are lots of different forms that they have that they send in to us. We also have a process that six
times a year we get together, and the Run Board Committee-- and we just had our Run Board Committee
or Pre-Run Board Committee for the upcoming service change, May 2025, in which stewards
representing the operators are able to have a conversation with us about things that are working, postJanuary 19th implementation of the newest service change and things that they would like to see
addressed.
And in those conversations, we do talk about everything from bushes needing to be trimmed so they can
have a good sight line to make a turn to actually tight turns. And specifically, the Route 1, the Route 40,
and a couple other routes that came up. So your comment is definitely on time and appreciated. But, yes,
we do listen to our operators. We also go out to the divisions and speak directly to our operators-- when I
say we, I mean my team-- that goes out to the different divisions. And so there is a robust conversation
that occurs between service development and our frontline employees on a regular basis.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I have a couple of questions for you, Mr. Carter, or to anyone who
can answer. But I'm wondering, just in looking at our packet, going back to Director Paglieri's initial
question and my comment, is it possible where we have more information, could we include that maybe in
a subsequent memo to the Board and also on our website where we post these proposed changes? I
know before, we'd entertained the idea of a chart. I think that's helpful just because it's a lot to process.
And I'm also looking over at seasonal service adjustments. For example, it says reduced to summer
levels. Not everyone might know what summer levels mean. Or when I look at Route 44 and we talk
about adding two morning and two evening peak direction trips on weekdays, if we do know what those

times would be, we should include that. But even just when we're talking about going back to a previously
scheduled service, if it's a seasonal adjustment, I think it would just be helpful to note what it looks like in
the other season so that folks don't have to follow the trail on Trip Planner and try to figure out what
previously transpired. So that was just a point of feedback.
And then I actually have a question. So on my packet page 20 under Services Proposed for
Enhancements, so Route 225 and the DASH have service extensions to serve low-income housing
developments, which I like. But I was curious if that was in the SOP. I don't oppose it. I actually like if we
can be nimble. But is that something that you can address, Mr. Carter? I'd love to hear about it.
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, yes. But I'm going to want to speak to my representative on the North Side,
the lead for the North area to give more detail on that. As far as it is not necessarily an SOP-by-itself
change, it was something that's been worked on for quite some time in conjunction with Boulder County
providing service to that development, which is a low-income development. So but to give you the dates
and times and all the efforts that went in there, I would ask that we be able to provide you a better
overview of that through the North team.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely, thank you. And I just wanted to make sure I understood that this was not
originally planned several years ago, but we were able to meet needs of community and make that
happen. So I think this is a very favorable recommendation. I noted the language didn't reference the
SOP.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, go ahead sir.
JESSIE CARTER: I do want to say that this is something that did take years, and it's not just a this-year
thing. This is something that the team has been working on for a number of years, being informed by both
Boulder County and the city of the need and the plan once the location was built. And it's something that
has been in plans for, I want to say, at least four years.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And I'm also taking that as a hint I should just keep advocating that
we rethink the 43, or at least run the 121 by my house. I'm open to either. Director Nicholson, you are
recognized. Let's try to keep it under a minute, and then we can wrap this one up. Proceed, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So first off, just very briefly, I really appreciate you guys increasing the frequency
on the 73. I don't know that I've ever been on it, but it's a major route in Central Denver. So thank you.
[LAUGHS] It goes through both. It hits both. But the second point there that I have is I've heard a number
of issues that have come up from actually folks in the area around criminal activity at Fairmount Cemetery
and folks using public transit to-- there's a canal I think is what it is that's there.
Is there any thought being given, especially considering we're talking about security earlier in this meeting
when we're increasing service-- and most likely as a result of that increase, hopefully, increasing
ridership-- to the security implications of doing that, especially in places where there have been
potentially, reports about security incidents being proximate to transit in those areas? So I'm just
wondering if that comes up in your analysis. And does an increase in frequency also led to an increase in
attention when it comes to security concerns, people, putting security onto those buses, that kind of
thing?

JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may? OK. Thank you for the question. And I'm going to have to say,
honestly, no. We don't necessarily consider it. And that's the first time I've heard about increased crime in
and around the Fairmount Cemetery. That's usually a pretty quiet place for obvious reasons. But at the
same time, in looking at we have had to address increased crime at certain stops. And that's when we do
reach out to our law enforcement and our security team.
And I have to give praise to Dr. Horn and his team, and that we were able to address along with the
Aurora Police Department, somewhere near where we had an issue at Havana and Colfax. And I think
we've come to meet with some of the folks who actually operate businesses in and around that area to
actually, I don't want to say disconnect completely, but disconnect the notion that buses cause crime.
So I would use the analogy of buses cause crime like spoons cause me to be fat. [LAUGHS] They don't.
It's all about my habit. It's all about the neighborhood. It's all about the area that you're in. It's not
necessarily about the bus. But that's kind of a curmudgeon's view [LAUGHS] of transit's role with crime.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Your curmudgeon view is shared by the Chair of this committee.
Director Nicholson, does that answer your question?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I was just going to clarify. It's the High Line Canal that runs through the cemetery.
That is the location that was raising people's hackles. And that does make perfect sense, and I
completely agree. When you give people good access to public transit, you give all kinds of people good
access to public transit, and not all of them are good people.
JESSIE CARTER: There you go.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And with that, I see no further hands raised. So we will go ahead and close this
discussion item. Thank you, Mr. Worthen, and Mr. Carter, for your presentation and for being generous
with your time and answering our questions. This was a very good discussion. Again, I have completely
lost my script, but I think I remember how this goes. Now we can move into other matters. [LAUGHS]
Does anyone have any other matters they would like to raise? Director Nicholson strikes again. You may
proceed, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Keep it to a minute or less. Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So, as some of you may have heard me discuss earlier, I am putting together an
Ad Hoc Committee on Customer and Community Experience and Security, and that will take place with
the Chair's announcement sometime in the next week or so. And so I'll be sending out an email about this
as well.
But if any of you are interested in participating in that Ad Hoc Committee because you are interested in
Customer and Community Experience and Security-- that committee will report to this committee is why
I'm bringing it up here-- but if you're interested in those issues, please let me know and I'll be putting
together that committee in the next couple of days, a week or so.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you, Director Nicholson. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I will make this brief as well. Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Nicholson
and I did a ride-along this last week down the Colfax all the way for the 15. It was really good. I

appreciated that ride. We had a reporter from Westword with us as well. But I have a couple of questions
and maybe a comment or two. The bus went past Tower Road on Colfax and literally just ended, and it
ended in nowhere. And the bus driver was extremely cordial and said, obviously, you need to get off. We
have a 20-minute break.
But in that 20 minutes, there is no place for him to go to the restroom. There was literally nothing there.
So is there a way to maybe make that bus stop one or two blocks closer? Because there is a 7-Eleven, so
at least he could go in and buy a Coke in that 20 minutes and go to the restroom. So that would be one of
my suggestions. And it's very awkward because as a bus rider, we got dropped off in a mud puddle. I
mean, there was literally nothing there. So that would be something that would not only make the
customer just on that particular route better but also the driver.
And then also, what do we do? As I was walking from that bus stop to get to the 7-Eleven, I came across
a very, very large homeless encampment. I don't know what to do about it, but I think that's something
that we get farther out East, specifically in my area, there are very large homeless encampments. And
this one was particularly egregious in that there was a ton of trash and it was very, very inhospitable, let's
just put it that way. So I don't know what the process is to report something like that.
I did call the city of Aurora and did report it. But I just want to bring that to the attention that perhaps this is
something that we can have a little bit more dialogue with the bus drivers and those that are actually on it
that they feel comfortable as a place to talk about those issues. Like what can they do and what can they
report? You know, we don't want this to be a tattle-tale session or a sweeping session, but we also want
them to feel safe. And we also want our customers to be dropped off at an appropriate area. So that's the
only comment that I have. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Director Chandler. Co-Chief Dr. Horn, are you still with us? Would you
like to address the matter raised about reporting security concerns, or anyone who might be here with us
today who can address that? I think that was a pretty salient point.
GLYN HORN: Can you hear me?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, yes, sir. Go ahead. Proceed.
GLYN HORN: Sorry about that. I'm on my mobile now. So the deal especially with large encampments,
they are a bit difficult. And every jurisdiction has certain rules and standards that they have to go by in
terms of providing assistance for those that occupy homeless encampments. We work extremely close
with whether it's Aurora, Denver. because operators and others, they do call the police department and
report large encampments quite often.
For RTD, a lot of issues that we run into, some of them may be close to RTD property, but again, they're
in other jurisdiction's territory if you will. So we have to abide by their rules. And truthfully, some cities
have orders or mandates from their city management or city leadership that they have chosen not to take
certain action against-- or certain enforcement, I should say, at certain locations. So we do partner with
them. But as far as what actually occurs, really lies with those jurisdictions.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So if somebody wanted to reach out, would it be appropriate for them
to use the Transit Watch app, or call the 303-229-2911 number for something-GLYN HORN: Yeah, or even using the Transit Watch app is useful because that way, at least we get
them, and we have Commanders that have relationships. And we keep tallies and tabs on how many

complaints we get at certain locations. And sometimes it's a lot easier for Transit Police Commanders to
work directly with police department and other officials from those jurisdictions. So again, I would highly
encourage using the Transit Watch app because those will get routed to us.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And I don't want to take us into a rabbit hole. But now I don't know
the answer to this, so this might help everyone. If someone elects to use the Transit Watch app, does that
get to the same person as if someone had called or texted into our lines? Is one more of a direct way of
communication, I should ask, or is it all the same?
GLYN HORN: It's all the same because it goes to our dispatch center in essence.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you for educating me on that one. I see that Director Nicholson has his
hand raised again. Do you have something else for other matters, sir?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes I do. I just wanted to call out very quickly in response to what Director
Chandler said. We both did that ride-along. And one of the reasons why it went well when we had to
answer questions for an hour on the 15 bus is because Chief Communications and Engagement Officer,
Stuart Summers, did a ton of work preparing us for that interview, and prepared a fact sheet, and had a
meeting with us.
And we both went in knowing all the stuff we could talk about and had everything at the ready. So I just
wanted to call that out because he put in a lot of work. And for any other Directors who are on here,
interviews are great, and just do the same thing. Talk to Stuart. He will get you all prepared. It was a
wonderful experience, in large part because of his help.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you, sir. Next time you come visit my district, ping me. I'll join you on
the bus. So with that, we have no other matters to discuss. And our next meeting date is March 12, 2025,
where we will convene again at 5:30. That meeting is going to be very busy with discussion items on the
following. We have Title VI program update, downtown rail reconstruction, our annual safety report.
I believe we have fare collection strategies and tactics-- although I have to double-check on the calendar
with that one-- an update from our police department-- which I had calendared for April, but perhaps it's
March, I'll double-check-- and then, as previously noted, a potential action item just regarding service
standards, planning, and evaluation metrics, and when we convene on that. And again, you will be
noticed well in advance if that action item is coming next month. So seeing no other discussion, our
meeting is adjourned at 8:25 PM. Good night and thank you, all.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you.

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Denise Howd <howd-ville@comcast.net>
Thursday, February 13, 2025 4:18 PM
RTD Board Office
Access On Demand

Hello,
I would like to commend the rtd board members that have truly seen the need for the disabled of our &
your own neighborhoods and voted YES to continue Acces a Ride Rideshare program for 2025.
Thank you!!!
To Chris, Brett & Kathleen,
I understand the cuts that are required to be made, but to choose our most vulnerable population &
restrict them from services that have made them proud to be part of a society that embraces
employment, is just fundamentally wrong.
I understand you voted no, as I assume you are not up to date on what this service means for our
disabled community.
For those of you live in the heart of a vibrant urban neighborhood that allows you the best access to
public transportation, whether it be bike, train or bus.
Not 6 blocks away into deserted light rail stations with no safety or accessibility.
Maybe many of you work remote & need your car for shopping, events, visiting.
You may not use public transportation if you need groceries that you can't carry more than 2 bags worth.
Maybe it's snowing, sleeting, above 97 for 70 days straight. Nah, you can get in your car, turn on heat or
ac, drive yourself anywhere you desire round trip.
There are compromises that can be looked into this year to address this ongoing need for future years.
Please reconsider the NO votes for Access a Ride until you've met the disabled community that relies on
this service to make their lives as normal as yours.
Have you ever given it a second thought what you would do if you had no drivers license? That you don't
live near a bus or light rail? That you have a job you are proud of and need consistent dependable service
to arrive & depart like everyone who does drive can come & go as they please?
Have you ever met a disabled person who is compromised & needs support in so many areas of daily
living that getting a safe ride from home to destination makes them feel whole?
Independent?
Do you have any family or friends that depend on these services? Do you?
1

Please, start thinking this year about what can be done for future years.
The ACCESS a RIDE with car share has been the best thing ever to happen to a community that relies on
you to make the correct decisions for them.
Thank you,
Denise Howd
Mom of a 34 yo son that is able to work 5 days a week @ a reliable employer, Home Depot, but works
7pm-11pm & needs a safe ride back & forth to continue his employment of 8 years at a job he loves, feels
included & normal in a society that strives to support him & the many many others in our communities.

2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the
RTD Operations, Safety and Security Committee Meeting, February 12th, 2025.
February 12th, 2025
JoyAnn Ruscha and Ian Harwick
Operations, Safety and Security Committee Chairs
Regional Transportation District (RTD)
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chairs Ruscha and Harwick,

2025 Access-on-Demand Funding
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) is in support of funding the Access-on-Demand program to the tune of
$15,814,441. That said, we encourage full transparency regarding the extra $2M proposed to come out of the
unrestricted fund.
Contracted Security Services Contract
GDT notes the proposed Scope of Work for the Combined Security Services Contract and is greatly concerned
that this represents a same old approach to providing security on a transit system that faces a range of
issues including drug use and other illicit behaviors that frequently make customers feel unsafe.
In particular, the Scope of Work provides no requirements to increase the number of daily contacts that security
staff have with buses or trains and no provisions for shifting fare enforcement to fare collection by allowing
security staff to cure violations on the spot by selling tickets.
Secondly, the recommended action then gives staff the authority to enter into a new contract with Allied
Universal without coming back for further Board approval. This means Directors will be kept in the dark
regarding how much the new security contract will actually cost (something that may not be the same as the
budgeted figure) or what the exact contract provisions will be.
GDT urges committee members to politely send this item back to staff for refinement and retain a provision that
the agreed contract must come back to the Board for approval should it land within a range of the expected
value. It should always be remembered that just because an item is in the budget, this doesnt mean it has
Board approval for the funds to be spent.
2025 OSS Committee Work Plan
GDT notes the work plan has been greatly expanded from last year's committee with numerous contributions
from both staff and the committee. The following items are of particular interest:

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

-
-

GDT hopes that a public engagement process is carried out to find out what a Customers Bill of Rights
should include.
GDT hopes that the Fare Collection Strategies and Tactics item includes a comprehensive rethink
about the way fares are collected and enforced with a particular focus on white collar fare collection.
We also hope this item includes getting staff to provide contracted dates for the provision of contactless
payments (tap to pay) and the ability to top up MyRide stored value cards at ticket vending machines
(TVMs).

May 2025 Service Changes
Assuming the modified online public comment process (where comments are accepted on a route by route
basis) that was introduced last year remains the same, GDT will be fully engaging via those channels. At this
time we havent identified any major issues with the proposed service changes.
Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum















Richard Bamber

June Churchill













Emma Griffin



Joe Meyer
CC:

Keith Brooks

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:

Greater Denver Transit <greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com>
Wednesday, February 12, 2025 4:49 PM
RTD.Directors
Jack Kroll; Tai-Shrae Parish; James Flattum; Richard Bamber; June Churchill;
emma.audrey.g@gmail.com; Joe Meyer; Keith Brooks; Debra Johnson; RTD General Manager
GDT's OS&S Public Comment Letter - 2/12/25
20250212_RTD_OSandS_Letter.pdf

Dear Chairs Ruscha and Harwick,
Attached, please find a letter from GDT submitted as public comment addressing the OS&S Committee.
While we address a series of topics, of most immediate concern, we push back on the recommended
action that gives staff the authority to enter into a new contract with Allied Universal without coming
back for further Board approval. We are concerned this means Directors will be kept in the dark
regarding how much the new security contract will actually cost (something that may not be the same as
the budgeted figure) or what the exact contract provisions will be.
In addition, we see no evidence in the Scope of Work outlining requirements to increase the number of
daily security staff contacts with buses or trains and no provisions for shifting fare enforcement to fare
collection by allowing security staff to cure violations on the spot by selling tickets.
We urge committee members to politely send this item back to staff for refinement to address the budget
transparency element and add direction toward security contact actions with RTD vehicles that will more
directly address the intimidating and illegal behaviors so commonly seen aboard RTD buses and trains
that is severely harming both ridership and the retention of operators.
Kind Regards,
James Flattum
(For and on behalf of Greater Denver Transit)
(303) 843-3619
greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com
www.greaterdenvertransit.com
To help protect y our priv acy , Microsoft Office prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:

Jack Kroll
Wednesday, February 12, 2025 1:58 PM
RTD.Directors
FW: 2/12 OSS Committee Public Comment - May 2025 Service Changes
2024_Daily_Ridership_by_Time.xlsx

Good afternoon, Directors
Please see the email below which was submitted as public comment in advance of tonights meeting.
Best,
Jack Kroll
Executive Manager
Board Office
he | his | him
o. 303.299.2307
c. 720.979.3588

Jack.Kroll@rtd-denver.com
rtd-denver.com

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, BLK-36
Denver, CO 80202

We make lives better through connections.

From: Joe Meyer <thejoemeyer@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, February 12, 2025 11:12 AM
To: RTD.Directors@rtddenver.com
Cc: Jack Kroll <Jack.Kroll@rtddenver.com>
Subject: 2/12 OSS Committee Public Comment  May 2025 Service Changes

Chair Ruscha and members of the Operations, Safety, and Security Committee,
Thank you for the opportunity to provide public input today. I am pleased to see the initial draft of the May
2025 service changes, and am happy to see that it includes increases in service frequency and also the
return of the 19 bus to Pecos Junction station. These changes are beneficial to the usability and
connectivity of the network and should be a net positive for rider experience. However, I'd like to also ask
that you join me in digging deeper into these changes and seeking transparency for the prioritization of
which routes receive frequency increases. Specifically, I believe the Committee/Board and the public
deserve to better understand the following:
1

1. With the return of the 19 to Pecos Junction, what is the proposed schedule timing for stops at the
station? How is connectivity between the NB/SB bus and the EB/WB G and B evaluated, since
there are more combinations of possible connections than the current frequency of the 19 can
support? Draft schedules and a connections analysis are necessary to evaluate the usefulness of
this much-anticipated stop. The current schedule means that the NB 19 does not have a useful
connection to the WB B/G right now, and I have on many occasions walked the ~1 mile home from
Pecos Junction without seeing a 19 bus at all. There are also many workers at the nearby Amazon
warehouse that currently walk to/from Pecos Junction who would greatly benefit from the bus
connection, but draft schedules must be published to capture public feedback in making this a
reliable, usable connection.
2. Increased frequency on the 16 is a positive development, but I must ask how this route was
prioritized amongst other similar or higher-performing routes. For example, the 15 and 15L each
experience more boardings/hour on Saturday midday and PM Peak periods than the 16 does on
weekdays, but I do not see discussion of improved weekend frequency on these routes. Does
service availability on the corridor weigh heavily here (i.e. the 16 is the only service on West Colfax
vs. both the 15 and 15L serving East Colfax?) and if so, how is this quantitatively weighed against
ridership, and against other factors such as equity/accessibility? Similarly, the 0, FF1, 105, and
121 all appear to outperform the 16 in terms of boardings/hour during the PM Peak period on
weekdays - are these also slated to increase to 10 minute frequencies anytime soon? What
caused the 16 to become the priority?
3. I applaud any frequency increases to existing 30- and 60-minute service, so the 153 increasing to
15 minutes is great to see! Similar to the questions about prioritization of the 16, what factors
played into the allocation of resources to the 153 in comparison to midday/PM Peak weekday
service on the 21 or Sunday service on the 31?
4. Evening/late ridership (in terms of boardings/hour) on the A line continues to outperform the
majority of other routes in the network, and in many cases is on par with weekday midday and
peak-period 15L ridership, yet it remains stuck at 30-minute frequency. What is preventing later
15-minute service on the A? As a crucial connection to a major employer and travel hub, this is a
very interesting omission from the conversations around service improvements.
I'd like to reiterate that these are all positive changes and I am appreciative and excited to see the
direction that RTD is moving in terms of increasing service, but I would like to understand (and I hope the
Committee/Board is just as interested in digging into) how limited resources are prioritized - in a
consistent, repeatable, quantitative manner - in each of these scenarios. I am unable to attend this
meeting live, but I look forward to hearing the discussion regarding the May 2025 service changes (and
the service change process in general) that I hope this prompts. Attached are the data I have aggregated
to support questions 2-4.
Thank you,
Joe Meyer

2

Route
15L
15L
15L
15L
15L
15L
31
31
15L
31
15L
15L
15L
105
105
31
0
31
15L
15L
0
15L
FF1
FF1
15L
SKIP
121
121
15L
31
0
16
0
105
105
15L
15L
16
16
15L
0
0
FF1

Avg Boardings
2332
2304
3998
3926
1714
1655
1626
1374
2728
2679
1338
1291
2575
1275
1221
1173
1164
2326
1148
1144
1106
731
1074
1060
2102
1050
1049
1034
2060
1029
1988
966
1927
1920
1881
617
611
915
1822
302
886
886
881

Trips
41
41
76
76
41
41
35
35
49
72
23
23
49
24
24
36
24
72
22
22
24
15
24
24
44
40
23
23
44
36
48
24
48
48
48
12
15
24
48
9
24
24
23

Schedule Type
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK

Time of Day
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak

31
31
SKIP
15L
0
16
105
0
105
31
31
FF1
105
121
105
121
121
15L
15L
0
40
121
105
0
15L
105
105
105
SKIP
0
0
FF1
21
40
15L
31
16
0
31
0
21
153
31
0

871
1731
1723
861
859
1718
855
1702
848
844
1674
837
836
817
1595
1594
1590
526
261
771
770
761
759
1515
743
1481
732
728
727
727
1450
724
710
705
470
703
1369
453
451
677
672
224
441
1321

24
48
75
22
24
48
24
48
25
24
48
23
25
23
44
49
49
12
9
24
24
23
24
48
22
44
24
24
24
24
48
24
11
24
9
16
48
16
15
24
11
6
15
48

2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU

PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday

16
105
153
21
16
153
31
16
SKIP
21
31
0
105
16
16
121
105
FF1
FF1
11
11
0
153
15L
31
FF1
121
31
31
153
SKIP
153
31
121
16
31
0
21
16
21
51
51
16
105

660
1318
658
1312
651
648
647
645
642
1276
1275
424
1268
631
1253
622
414
1225
1224
612
611
404
201
401
1202
601
1195
597
397
1191
1186
1180
196
195
580
384
570
564
1120
558
557
553
550
365

23
44
11
26
24
11
16
24
46
26
36
16
44
23
48
24
11
48
48
13
12
16
6
9
36
24
48
24
13
24
48
24
8
8
23
13
24
12
48
12
12
12
23
11

2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK

PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening

76
40
11
16
153
31
105
0
121
40
83L
42
153
FF1
11
21
31
38
76
121
15L
3
FMR
15L
16
11
3
121
0
83L
83L
105
31
42
0
83L
38
38
76
73
76
105
0
105

546
1091
1087
1084
540
538
357
356
534
1066
1061
529
529
1052
1052
1052
350
524
521
347
520
517
512
512
341
508
508
1015
504
1007
503
335
334
495
165
494
985
492
982
491
979
488
324
161

12
48
24
48
12
24
7
16
24
48
26
24
12
48
24
26
8
12
12
9
13
14
36
13
15
13
14
48
24
26
11
8
8
24
5
12
24
12
24
12
24
13
15
7

2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK

PM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early

153
16
40
40
73
0
FF1
6
0
FF1
40
51
3
21
3
83L
15L
38
11
31
153
43
FF1
51
16
16
83L
121
15L
6
21
20
43
40
31
38
121
SKIP
83L
0
FF1
153
16
40

482
321
480
480
480
159
477
475
473
315
470
937
937
468
935
467
465
929
463
154
923
462
920
920
306
305
457
455
453
453
903
449
446
445
445
444
148
443
442
295
442
294
439
877

12
17
24
24
13
5
12
12
22
8
24
24
24
11
24
11
13
24
12
8
24
23
48
24
17
15
13
12
11
12
26
14
23
24
16
12
8
24
12
15
12
8
24
42

2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA

PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
AM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
Midday

16
65
38
FF1
42
FF1
121
121
105
SKIP
16
SKIP
15L
FF1
83L
15L
121
153
121
76
20
11
51
10
51
121
0
31
0
105
20
11
153
83L
10
76
AB1
153
105
105
20
76
42
FF1

292
436
435
290
434
289
863
287
287
429
285
426
426
425
424
424
424
422
281
843
421
841
420
420
839
419
419
419
419
139
417
416
415
415
413
411
274
273
407
405
404
402
402
803

8
14
12
8
21
8
24
8
7
24
8
24
11
12
12
13
22
12
9
24
14
24
12
19
24
12
14
12
22
7
13
12
12
13
19
12
7
8
12
13
13
12
21
22

2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU

PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday

SKIP
105
12
15L
45
121
153
16
31
21
83L
105
21
3
51
105
83L
40
83L
83D
12
31
52
15L
43
3
76
51
SKIP
153
FMR
51
73
3
11
153
3
38
43
52
83L
40
0
38

399
399
399
398
397
792
792
395
395
394
262
393
393
392
390
260
780
771
385
384
384
382
764
382
761
759
379
379
253
379
378
377
753
376
125
250
373
373
373
372
124
370
370
740

24
13
24
11
12
24
24
24
16
12
8
12
11
10
12
7
24
42
12
12
24
12
24
11
48
24
12
12
16
12
34
12
24
12
5
8
10
12
24
12
5
12
22
24

2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA

AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Late
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday

65
21
51
31
40
0
AB1
31
DASH
52
76
153
16
40
16
SKIP
52
21
6
6
0
76
21
3
73
3
6
83D
11
3
43
SKIP
121
SKIP
SKIP
73
43
105
3
153
153
FF1
83L
AB1

368
245
735
367
367
367
366
366
366
366
730
728
121
242
363
242
726
726
363
362
362
361
360
360
360
360
718
359
714
357
713
712
237
355
709
708
353
351
699
348
696
116
692
231

14
6
24
14
12
14
8
12
24
12
24
24
6
10
24
16
24
24
12
12
22
12
12
12
12
12
24
12
24
12
48
48
8
24
48
24
24
12
24
12
24
4
24
7

2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU

AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening

10
AB1
83L
6
FF1
76
AB1
FF1
73
16
38
45
121
52
21
105
52
73
31
40
17
83L
21
16
153
10
73
3
17
3
12
83L
153
83L
11
51
42
21
31
AB1
38
42
FF1
11

345
229
229
687
229
114
343
685
342
342
684
341
341
340
113
338
337
337
337
225
336
663
660
110
219
328
655
655
325
648
324
216
215
323
107
215
644
322
322
642
321
640
106
318

17
6
8
24
8
5
8
23
13
12
24
12
22
12
4
13
12
12
12
10
24
24
24
7
8
17
24
24
24
24
24
8
8
13
4
7
26
12
14
13
12
26
4
11

2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA

AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak

FF1
0
BOND
0
3
21
AB1
12
121
105
AB1
105
FF1
21
16
JUMP
38
40
16
40
16
19
121
83L
121
16
133
FMR
FF1
105
SKIP
73
51
7
121
45
76
31
51
0L
43
38
SKIP
51

317
315
315
105
209
209
209
313
313
313
313
312
312
208
312
312
311
621
309
617
308
308
205
205
205
102
306
611
204
305
203
203
303
303
303
303
302
101
201
301
601
200
200
299

16
12
24
5
7
6
6
24
12
11
9
12
12
6
12
26
12
24
12
24
24
11
8
8
8
6
12
72
6
12
16
8
12
12
12
12
12
6
7
24
48
8
16
12

2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU

AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Late
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak

83L
40
43
120X
83L
FMR
73
38
76
51
153
0
76
121
38
51
120X
51
12
38
133
76
19
83D
AB1
DASH
38
BOND
204
83L
12
121
FF1
19
AB1
83L
45
73
83L
3
73
21
40
0L

597
99
298
297
198
296
296
295
295
590
196
294
98
97
583
194
291
97
581
580
289
289
289
289
577
288
192
287
287
96
573
286
285
570
285
284
568
568
283
189
564
94
94
280

24
7
23
21
8
36
12
12
12
24
8
12
5
4
24
7
21
4
31
24
12
12
11
9
13
24
8
24
21
5
31
12
12
25
8
13
24
25
12
7
24
4
7
24

2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK

Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Early
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Late
PM Evening
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
AM Peak

7
6
AB1
153
FF1
76
83L
SKIP
11
76
16
3
FF1
AB1
153
SKIP
153
45
AB1
51
83L
3
6
AT
0
153
AB1
BOLT
43
73
120X
225
19
42
105
120X
65
121
AT
AB1
43
105
40
19

279
279
186
93
185
556
185
556
277
185
277
184
277
276
276
275
274
546
273
545
271
270
540
90
90
268
268
268
268
89
267
266
531
265
88
265
264
264
88
263
526
263
262
262

12
12
6
5
6
24
8
38
13
6
12
7
12
8
12
23
11
24
9
24
12
12
24
2
5
11
9
12
23
4
19
21
25
12
4
19
11
12
2
9
48
14
13
12

2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK

PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
Other
AM Peak
AM Peak

38
121
AT
73
153
20
11
17
20
76
17
52
SKIP
FMR
AT
204
51
130
83D
21
73
FF1
19
BOLT
73
83L
21
76
76
42
38
40
3
52
JUMP
43
16
45
AB1
38
76
45
3
DASH

262
260
87
519
259
517
516
516
515
515
512
256
510
255
85
254
169
254
254
169
253
252
252
251
251
251
251
251
167
500
166
166
166
498
498
248
248
248
248
165
164
247
245
245

13
12
2
25
12
24
13
48
24
24
48
12
38
36
2
21
7
12
9
6
11
16
12
12
11
13
12
12
6
24
7
7
7
24
46
23
11
12
8
8
6
12
12
12

2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK

AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak

SKIP
AB1
AB1
3
21
7
73
11
FMR
73
7
35
L
65
43
43
16
51
16
65
AB1
11
51
153
11
16
52
FMR
45
AT
AB1
AB1
AT
73
3
45
121
3
6
48
65
45
83L
42

163
489
489
163
163
244
163
487
487
241
241
241
241
481
240
478
80
239
80
477
238
238
79
238
236
236
236
472
157
79
236
236
78
156
156
468
234
233
467
233
233
232
232
232

13
13
13
7
6
12
8
13
72
12
12
12
24
25
23
44
7
7
7
25
6
6
4
11
13
11
12
72
8
2
9
9
2
7
7
24
12
12
24
12
12
12
12
12

2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_MT
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU

PM Evening
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Evening
Midday
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak

12
35
42
73
AB1
BOND
28
14
105
42
11
L
43
40
204
40
153
83L
324
52
10
6
JUMP
130
76
40
21
38
31
42
12
40
153
45
42
121
76
133
38
324
133
38
AT
AB1

155
232
231
77
154
460
229
229
229
152
152
228
454
151
226
226
75
225
450
450
450
225
225
224
149
223
223
148
74
444
222
222
222
443
74
221
147
147
220
220
439
146
439
439

11
12
12
4
5
48
9
12
14
8
4
24
44
7
19
13
5
13
24
24
25
12
24
12
6
12
9
8
6
24
12
13
12
24
6
12
6
8
11
12
24
7
17
13

2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_FR
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA

PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
Midday

17
BOLT
40
153
48
153
BOND
40
11
42
17
SKIP
42
121
SKIP
45
83L
6
21
73
44
38
76
14
105
92
105
83L
48
10
153
3
51
133
133
40
133
17
92
205
12
133
40
28

219
218
146
218
436
73
435
217
217
217
216
144
432
215
214
214
214
143
143
142
213
213
71
212
71
212
212
211
211
418
209
209
139
208
207
138
207
206
206
205
409
409
204
203

24
11
7
11
24
5
48
11
6
12
11
13
24
12
21
12
12
7
6
7
8
13
5
12
4
12
13
12
12
25
11
12
5
12
12
7
12
24
12
12
24
24
12
8

2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK

AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
Other
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Late
AM Peak

44
DASH
SKIP
40
AT
51
L
28
11
0
10
46
324
45
42
BOND
121
42
AT
76
BOLT
121
45
105
40
42
SKIP
11
12
324
88
45
133
153
6
DASH
40
48
46
21
45
45
51
L

203
203
203
203
405
202
403
201
134
67
201
200
401
200
133
199
66
395
395
131
197
65
131
65
195
130
195
65
130
195
195
129
388
193
193
386
193
193
192
192
384
128
192
382

8
12
23
13
17
7
48
9
4
3
12
12
24
12
8
12
4
24
16
6
11
4
8
4
11
8
21
4
11
12
12
8
24
11
13
24
12
12
12
6
24
8
7
48

2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_MT
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_FR

PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday

133
48
21
105
15L
AB1
6
48
204
133
38
88
10
42
10
38
17
43
JUMP
51
BOND
11
35
17
45
12
48
38
BOND
19
121
21
73
12
17
42
73
76
16
35
12
105
24
83L

127
380
189
189
189
189
63
377
188
187
62
187
373
62
186
62
186
124
184
122
122
122
366
183
365
182
364
181
121
121
181
181
120
180
360
120
179
179
60
357
357
179
178
178

8
24
6
13
7
6
4
25
19
12
2
12
24
6
12
2
11
8
10
5
13
5
23
11
24
12
25
11
13
7
11
9
7
12
24
8
9
10
7
23
24
13
7
12

2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU

PM Evening
Midday
PM Late
Other
Other
PM Late
AM Early
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Early
Midday
Midday
Other
PM Peak
PM Late

AT
10
AT
204
44
AB1
14
AT
15L
40
7
130
19
AB1
20
48
130
73
14
AT
130
7
51
324
BOND
205
76
73
16
4
FF1
35
51
AT
AB1
52
133
12
6
SKIP
133
42
BOND
6

355
178
178
355
177
177
177
177
59
176
352
352
117
352
59
176
176
176
351
351
351
350
175
174
174
174
58
116
173
173
173
173
173
173
58
172
115
115
115
172
343
172
171
114

16
12
6
28
9
7
11
6
2
12
24
24
7
13
4
12
12
12
24
16
24
24
7
12
20
12
5
7
11
12
5
12
7
6
2
12
8
8
7
12
24
12
12
7

2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA

Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
PM Late
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
Other
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
Midday
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Evening

31
73
15L
133
42
17
133
51
AB1
12
92
10
28
14
15L
BOND
43
35
11
AT
AT
31
12
AB1
46
11
DASH
14
44
130
NB1
65
FF1
169
105
17
28
46
BOND
AT
AT
153
6
AB1

57
171
171
171
170
113
169
169
169
338
168
168
168
168
56
167
111
334
111
167
167
167
166
55
332
55
331
331
165
110
165
165
165
165
55
329
329
329
110
164
328
55
55
164

4
8
7
12
12
8
12
7
5
23
12
12
8
11
2
20
8
23
4
6
6
9
12
2
24
4
24
24
9
8
5
12
7
6
4
24
12
24
8
6
16
5
4
5

2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA

AM Early
PM Late
Other
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Late
Other
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
AM Early
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
PM Late

48
BOND
4
7
17
43
10
45
L
169
38
FF1
8
130
76
105
15L
43
88
10
AT
0
3
51
169
BOND
45
48
42
92
46
133
3
133
FMR
42
225
8
76
65
19
20
L
43

328
164
163
108
325
108
324
108
162
323
161
161
160
160
160
160
53
159
317
317
158
53
158
158
157
157
157
157
157
314
314
313
156
104
156
104
156
312
156
312
52
52
155
155

25
12
12
8
24
8
24
8
24
12
8
7
9
12
5
13
2
24
22
24
7
3
9
7
6
12
12
12
12
24
24
24
8
8
34
8
9
24
5
24
3
4
24
24

2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA

Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
Other
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
Other
AM Early
PM Late
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Peak

324
JUMP
AB1
169
133
AB1
45
12
130
83D
76
19
73
21
52
92
17
19
6
6
1
0L
48
17
DASH
JUMP
35
133
19
225
21
45
AT
FMR
12
42
204
133
88
0L
44
AT
16
28

155
309
51
309
51
51
103
308
154
51
154
51
153
153
153
306
153
152
152
152
152
152
304
101
151
151
151
100
150
150
50
150
150
150
100
149
299
298
298
149
298
149
149
297

12
25
2
12
4
2
8
23
12
3
10
3
7
6
12
24
11
6
6
13
6
12
24
8
12
12
12
8
6
12
4
12
7
34
8
12
28
24
22
10
12
7
11
12

2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK

AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
Other
Other
Midday

169
AT
24
130
BOND
130
43
153
225
37
120X
7
45
SKIP
BOLT
0
0
46
29
8
1
88
BOLT
49
46
24
121
88
AT
92
44
76
31
120X
12
130
42
52
L
8
17
38
11
37

148
148
148
99
296
147
98
147
147
146
49
97
146
146
291
145
145
145
145
144
144
144
289
288
144
144
48
143
143
286
286
143
143
48
95
285
142
142
283
283
283
141
141
141

6
7
7
8
24
12
8
9
12
10
5
8
12
12
16
10
10
12
6
9
6
12
16
12
12
6
4
12
7
24
12
5
9
5
8
24
12
6
48
24
24
8
6
9

2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK

PM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
Other
Other
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
Other
Midday
Midday
PM Late
Other
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak

L
225
12
48
0L
3
133
121
121
52
48
65
49
130
48
19
3
45
49
73
133
92
11
30
12
49
35
14
AT
35
10
42
19
AB1
8
19
BOND
130
10
51
169
130
15L
225

282
141
141
141
281
140
47
140
140
47
93
140
140
93
139
279
139
46
139
139
93
139
139
139
139
277
277
277
138
138
275
138
138
46
138
275
275
137
91
137
46
137
45
136

48
13
12
11
48
9
4
11
11
2
8
12
6
8
11
12
8
4
6
6
8
12
6
6
12
12
23
24
7
7
24
12
6
2
7
12
24
12
8
7
2
12
2
15

2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK

Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
PM Late
AM Early
Other
Other
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Late
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
Other
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak

46
21
DASH
SKIP
83D
38
51
42
NB1
225
169
6
42
130
19
3
14
65
42
6
12
46
14
49
45
44
49
AT
45
38
4
20
3
37
205
49
AB1
66
3
AT
205
46
DASH
73

273
136
272
136
45
135
135
90
135
268
134
134
134
268
134
44
133
266
44
266
133
133
133
132
132
264
264
132
132
132
132
132
132
131
131
263
44
131
131
131
262
131
131
131

24
6
23
9
3
7
6
8
5
24
6
6
12
24
6
4
12
24
4
12
12
12
12
6
12
12
12
7
12
7
11
6
8
10
12
12
2
7
8
7
24
12
12
8

2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK

Midday
PM Late
Midday
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
Midday
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late

48
48
14
10
L
65
104L
49
11
43
35
0
30
73
324
49
24
44
30
76
65
FF1
BOLT
133
205
225
52
130
6
45
52
JUMP
31
1
JUMP
49
JUMP
12
324
21
205
BOND
88
104L

131
87
261
87
87
87
130
130
86
130
129
129
258
129
258
258
129
129
128
128
43
128
85
128
127
127
254
84
84
126
126
84
126
125
125
125
125
125
250
125
249
248
248
248

11
8
24
8
13
6
8
6
3
12
7
10
12
9
12
12
6
6
6
5
4
5
6
12
12
13
12
8
7
12
6
9
9
6
12
6
12
13
12
6
24
24
22
13

2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_FR
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK

PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
Midday
PM Late
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Late
Midday
Midday
Midday
Midday

31
37
3
43
19
12
38
10
66
51
43
51
SKIP
206
121
BOND
40
L
205
49
92
88
44
44
JUMP
37
225
21
8
130
43
1
AB1
10
225
29
BOND
BOLT
130
49
104L
104L
153
130

124
124
41
82
247
123
123
82
123
41
123
123
122
122
122
81
41
81
121
242
242
242
121
241
241
40
241
40
120
240
80
120
120
80
80
120
239
119
239
119
238
119
119
79

9
9
4
8
12
12
7
7
7
2
12
6
10
12
11
8
4
13
12
12
24
22
6
12
24
4
24
4
7
24
8
6
5
8
8
6
24
6
24
6
13
8
9
8

2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_MT
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU

Other
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
PM Late
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Early
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Other
PM Evening

7
SKIP
52
12
42
19
205
FF2
65
BOND
17
24
45
11
17
324
19
104L
30
45
73
6
1
AB1
19
1
52
11
120
52
19
11
DASH
76
42
205
48
205
31
104L
40
326
43
72

237
118
236
78
118
235
118
118
78
78
78
234
117
78
78
78
117
39
117
117
117
233
233
116
77
232
77
116
116
39
77
116
231
39
116
231
38
115
38
38
115
115
115
115

12
12
12
8
12
12
12
3
6
8
4
12
12
3
4
8
6
2
6
12
7
12
12
5
4
12
4
6
12
2
4
6
23
3
17
24
3
12
4
2
11
12
12
6

2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK

Midday
PM Late
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Late
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
Other
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
Other
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak

BOLT
169
72
30
225
204
AB1
17
10
7
37
20
12
30
38
324
7
JUMP
73
17
0
206
42
104L
49
92
48
AT
AT
48
20
324
30
10
45
4
42
43
169
65
9
10
28
6

76
76
114
114
114
76
114
76
114
114
38
114
114
227
113
226
226
225
113
112
112
112
112
112
112
112
112
112
112
112
112
111
222
37
37
111
111
111
37
110
110
73
37
110

6
4
6
6
9
9
3
4
12
6
4
6
12
12
7
12
12
24
6
12
10
12
12
6
6
7
11
7
7
10
6
6
12
2
4
11
12
12
2
12
6
8
3
7

2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU

PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Late
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Peak

120X
45
AT
17
48
AB1
BOND
324
35
72
52
205
72
10
16
29
135
204
225
324
92
35
L
AB1
19
44
65
40
225
20
44
12
49
52
19
49
133
324
BOLT
24
AB1
29
48
225

73
110
110
110
110
110
73
110
73
219
73
109
218
36
109
109
109
72
72
109
108
108
72
108
72
108
36
108
215
215
107
107
107
71
107
107
107
71
213
213
106
35
35
212

8
12
7
12
10
3
8
6
5
12
4
12
12
2
7
6
6
9
9
6
7
6
13
3
4
6
4
11
19
12
6
13
6
4
6
6
12
8
12
12
3
2
3
21

2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU

PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
Other
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Early
Other
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
Other
AM Early
AM Early
Midday

40
L
29
153
49
7
135
120X
11
7
130
31
10
28
100
44
JUMP
29
206
205
1
44
324
29
10
133
16
44
92
BOLT
35
324
43
BOLT
AB1
10
120X
43
44
45
12
66
35
AT

35
71
106
106
71
106
106
211
106
106
70
105
105
35
105
70
70
209
104
208
104
208
208
35
104
104
104
207
69
103
103
103
103
103
103
68
205
102
68
102
102
102
203
68

4
13
6
8
4
12
6
23
6
6
8
9
11
3
6
4
10
12
10
24
6
12
12
2
11
12
7
12
5
6
6
6
12
6
3
7
23
12
4
16
12
6
12
4

2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK

AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Late
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
Other
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
Other
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening

19
12
104L
35
28
43
AT
SKIP
45
35
JUMP
51
JUMP
AT
JUMP
FF2
130
104L
104L
42
BOLT
133
45
133
100
104L
49
30
40
17
120X
11
121
21
133
120X
30
43
100
10
9
104L
BOND
FF2

68
101
203
202
202
34
101
101
33
100
100
33
100
100
200
100
100
200
100
33
99
99
99
99
99
99
66
197
33
66
66
98
98
98
98
98
196
98
98
98
98
33
98
98

4
12
13
12
12
4
5
10
4
7
12
2
12
7
24
3
12
13
6
4
6
8
12
12
6
6
4
11
4
4
8
6
11
6
8
12
12
12
6
11
6
2
12
3

2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK

PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
Midday
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Late
Other
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
PM Peak

133
66
16
12
29
104L
66
43
36
44
36
31
DASH
20
28
35
88
83L
225
BOLT
7
6
42
AT
104L
135
12
169
40
121
76
7
7
44
20
6
205
153
52
10
NB1
35
100
10

33
195
98
32
194
97
193
32
96
64
96
96
64
191
191
64
95
32
191
95
95
95
32
95
95
95
32
63
32
95
32
94
94
94
63
94
188
94
94
94
93
62
187
93

4
12
7
5
12
6
12
4
6
4
6
9
5
12
12
5
6
2
21
6
6
6
4
5
6
6
5
4
4
11
3
6
6
7
4
6
20
8
6
11
5
5
12
11

2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK

AM Early
Midday
Other
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
Other
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Early
Other
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
Other
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Late

10
65
52
205
65
BOLT
24
83L
326
16
20
17
JUMP
169
21
14
49
104L
AT
88
BOND
1
9
JUMP
12
BOND
20
104L
9
3L
28
BOLT
92
0
92
10
24
65
1
169
45
17
42
35

93
186
62
186
93
93
93
31
185
93
185
93
185
185
31
92
61
92
92
92
91
91
183
61
91
91
91
91
182
91
91
182
91
91
60
91
181
90
181
90
90
90
90
60

12
12
4
20
6
6
6
2
24
7
12
12
24
12
2
11
4
6
6
6
12
6
12
8
12
12
6
7
12
3
6
12
6
7
5
12
12
6
12
6
16
6
16
5

2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA

PM Late
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
Other
Midday
PM Late
Midday
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Other
PM Late
Other
PM Evening

BOLT
AT
169
8
28
225
7
104L
42
66
65
8
JUMP
72
104L
49
88
48
130
AT
24
8
169
FF2
24
43
100
DASH
BOLT
133
7
14
7
38
17
6
88
AT
46
45
40
1
38
35

179
90
90
179
90
60
89
179
89
89
178
89
59
178
59
89
89
88
88
88
177
176
88
88
88
88
87
58
58
29
174
174
87
29
87
87
87
87
87
29
87
58
29
58

12
6
6
12
6
6
6
13
17
6
12
6
8
12
5
6
6
10
12
6
12
12
6
3
6
12
6
5
4
4
12
12
12
2
12
7
6
6
6
4
8
4
2
4

2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU

Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
Midday
Other
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Early
Midday
Midday
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening

L
99
153
FF1
104L
36
20
35
30
130
52
28
7
BOND
24
AB1
139
104L
92
14
3L
36
130
100
P
7
BOLT
FF1
52
19
19
45
17
65
135
48
20
AT
20
8
30
92
28
48

86
86
86
29
29
86
172
86
172
29
86
172
57
86
86
86
86
85
57
85
85
85
85
170
28
169
85
84
56
84
84
84
28
56
84
56
56
56
56
83
55
83
55
55

12
12
8
2
2
6
12
7
11
4
6
12
4
12
6
3
6
6
5
6
3
6
8
12
1
12
5
4
4
6
5
16
6
4
6
4
3
4
4
6
4
6
4
4

2024_01_MT
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU

AM Peak
PM Peak
Other
AM Early
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
Other
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
Midday
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening

28
9
14
120
1
72
35
51
92
44
104L
10
8
104L
4
133
44
LD1
DASH
52
24
65
104L
AT
225
130
28
44
83L
120
49
169
104L
3L
104L
DASH
48
49
133
130
76
14
BOLT
19

83
83
83
165
83
165
55
82
165
82
82
82
82
82
164
27
55
27
82
82
82
82
163
54
54
81
54
54
81
81
54
81
81
80
27
80
54
80
80
27
80
160
80
80

6
5
6
13
6
12
4
5
12
7
6
12
6
7
14
4
4
1
6
6
6
12
13
4
6
12
4
4
5
12
4
6
3
3
2
6
4
4
8
4
5
12
6
6

2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA

PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
Other
Midday
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
Other
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
PM Late
Midday
PM Late
PM Late

AT
NB1
FF1
46
42
38
104L
133
28
AT
169
139
1
42
205
92
46
7
P
120E
BOLT
45
133
6
120X
BOLT
6
1
133
14
29
45
30
9
326
8
6
65
88
29
10
FMR
29
208

53
80
80
80
80
27
53
79
159
53
159
79
79
26
53
26
158
53
26
79
53
79
79
52
79
157
79
157
26
78
52
26
52
155
78
77
77
52
26
77
77
51
77
77

4
3
4
6
16
2
5
8
12
4
12
6
6
4
6
2
12
4
1
7
4
16
8
3
12
12
6
12
4
11
4
4
4
12
11
6
6
4
2
6
11
8
6
6

2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK

PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
PM Peak
Other
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak

104L
29
225D
169
SKIP
9
1
44
130
19
66
99
38
44
65
28
3
66
29
20
FF5
1
88
24
66
76
17
130
323
JUMP
28
169L
8
135
49
483
1
46
7
169
225
205
17
29

51
153
153
153
25
76
51
76
76
76
76
76
25
51
76
76
25
76
51
76
76
152
51
152
50
76
76
76
76
50
75
75
151
150
25
75
150
150
75
75
150
50
75
149

5
12
12
12
7
5
4
6
8
6
6
12
2
4
6
4
4
6
4
6
3
12
4
12
4
5
6
8
6
8
6
2
12
12
2
7
12
12
6
6
13
6
6
12

2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU

PM Evening
Midday
Midday
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
Midday
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday

BOLT
0
28
3L
29
7
LD1
29
205
92
45
153
28
88
1
1
225
83L
402L
72
88
7
19
130
FF1
8
DASH
120X
19
BOLT
4
8
6
44
104L
100
92
20
88
21
29
44
135
40

75
75
74
74
148
49
25
74
49
25
74
74
49
49
74
49
49
24
73
73
24
73
73
73
24
146
49
49
73
73
146
73
24
73
73
145
48
72
48
24
72
72
72
72

6
7
6
3
12
4
1
6
6
2
16
8
4
4
6
4
5
2
6
6
2
6
5
8
2
12
5
8
6
6
14
6
3
6
6
12
3
6
4
2
6
6
6
8

2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU

PM Late
Other
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
Other
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Late
Midday
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Other

7
120E
NB1
4
135
135
130
14
326
169L
66
205
29
24
483
88
169
FF5
52
104L
483
169
104L
45
15L
SKIP
40
BOLT
88
65
100
DASH
139
324
65
104L
51
133
92
169
4
21
FF5
20

48
143
72
24
48
143
71
48
71
71
142
47
142
142
71
47
71
71
47
47
71
47
71
24
71
24
71
47
47
70
70
140
70
23
47
70
70
70
70
46
23
69
23
46

4
13
3
3
4
12
12
4
12
2
12
6
12
12
7
4
6
3
4
5
6
4
6
4
3
6
8
4
4
6
6
12
6
4
4
3
5
8
7
4
3
4
2
3

2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK

PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
Other
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
Other
AM Early
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
Other
Other
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
Other
AM Early
PM Evening

326
JUMP
11
88
324
17
45
83L
72
483
130
92
36
NB1
104L
44
7
48
206
66
11
6
225D
17
169L
52
100
14
49
NB1
1
402L
44
42
169L
130
225T
JUMP
83L
6
48
104L
208
DASH

138
46
23
137
23
23
69
68
68
68
23
137
137
136
68
68
68
68
68
68
68
23
135
68
23
67
135
45
67
134
45
67
67
67
22
67
67
22
67
44
66
66
66
133

24
8
2
12
4
6
16
5
6
6
4
12
12
6
7
6
6
9
10
6
4
3
11
6
1
6
12
4
4
6
4
6
6
16
1
8
4
5
5
3
9
7
6
12

2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU

Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
Other
Other
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
AM Early
PM Late
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
Other
AM Early
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Early
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday

LD1
83L
92
104L
BOLT
35
104L
FF1
44
BOLT
AT
LD1
3
DASH
20
88
FF1
130
49
402L
P
20
32
99
169L
28
135
6
130
100
169
135
225
L
135
28
6
40
36
36
42
139
30
30

66
66
44
66
66
66
22
66
66
44
44
65
22
44
65
131
65
22
22
65
65
64
64
128
21
43
64
64
64
64
128
64
43
64
42
64
64
64
64
127
63
63
63
63

2
4
5
6
6
5
2
4
6
4
4
2
4
5
6
12
4
4
2
6
3
6
6
24
1
4
6
6
8
6
12
6
5
12
4
6
6
8
6
12
16
6
4
3

2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_FR
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU

PM Peak
Other
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Early
Other
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
Midday
Other
AM Early
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
Other
PM Peak
Midday
Other
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak

43
104L
135
169
43
28
29
28
66
36
20
88
65
65
35
99
88
8
66
88
99
7
JUMP
52
88
FF5
88
135
14
44
169L
48
66
30
120X
SKIP
135
11
169
20
205
BOLT
44
36

21
63
42
63
63
42
42
63
63
63
42
63
63
42
62
62
62
62
41
62
62
62
62
21
62
21
62
123
41
61
61
61
41
61
41
61
61
20
41
61
41
61
20
60

4
6
4
6
11
4
4
6
6
6
4
6
6
4
5
12
6
6
4
6
12
6
11
2
6
2
6
12
3
6
2
6
4
4
8
11
6
2
4
6
6
5
2
6

2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA

AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
Other
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Late
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak

9
15L
9
169L
52
46
169L
104L
9
483
3
20
169
402L
DASH
323
169
169L
24
8
139
9
120
104L
DASH
65
14
169L
1
44
32
135
44
66
135
92
15L
48
208
BOLT
100
20
36
1

121
60
60
60
60
60
60
40
60
120
20
60
60
60
60
119
60
60
40
40
119
60
119
40
40
59
40
20
20
59
59
59
20
118
59
59
59
39
59
59
58
58
117
58

13
2
6
2
5
6
2
5
6
12
4
6
6
6
6
12
6
2
3
3
12
6
12
5
4
6
4
1
2
6
6
6
2
12
6
7
3
3
3
5
6
6
11
6

2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA

Midday
Other
PM Peak
Other
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Late
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
Midday
AM Peak

99
83L
88
169L
20
135
NB1
FMR
DASH
324
12
43
7
93L
135
326
88
FMR
327
93L
36
17
324
38
14
169
225T
P
29
169
28
1
29
BOLT
12
83L
88
120
139
483
NB3
205
323
7

116
58
39
19
39
116
58
38
38
58
19
57
57
57
57
57
57
38
57
57
38
19
57
57
38
38
57
57
38
57
38
57
38
19
19
56
56
56
113
112
56
37
56
56

24
4
4
1
4
12
3
8
4
3
3
11
6
6
6
11
6
8
6
6
4
5
3
4
3
4
4
3
4
6
4
5
4
1
3
5
6
6
12
12
5
6
6
6

2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU

Midday
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
Other
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
Other
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Late

104L
48
88
225
15L
66
8
14
21
43
139
1
36
JUMP
65
36
GS
65
3
402L
24
43
GS
104L
DASH
JUMP
83L
9
1
46
9
FF5
36
NB1
17
1
32
DASH
100
JUMP
24
326
135
8

56
56
56
56
56
112
37
37
56
56
56
56
37
56
56
56
56
18
18
110
37
18
55
55
54
54
18
108
36
54
54
54
108
108
54
36
54
54
53
53
18
107
107
35

3
6
6
7
2
12
3
4
4
11
6
5
4
9
6
6
4
2
4
12
3
4
4
3
6
11
2
12
4
6
6
2
11
6
6
4
6
6
6
11
2
12
12
3

2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU

Other
PM Late
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
Other
Other
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
Other
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
Midday
Midday
PM Evening

DASH
36
402L
21
36
30
11
36
38
402L
65
323
208
36
NB2
38
36
1
52
135
20
65
DASH
66
7
66
120E
169L
135
120X
4
208
169
206
43
326
BOLT
48
RX
323
FF5
120E
4
324

53
35
53
53
106
18
53
35
53
106
18
53
105
105
52
52
35
17
17
52
52
52
52
52
17
52
52
103
103
52
103
103
51
102
17
51
17
51
50
101
50
101
50
50

6
4
6
4
11
1
4
4
4
12
2
6
12
11
5
6
4
2
2
6
6
6
6
8
2
5
6
4
12
8
12
12
6
13
4
6
1
6
5
12
2
12
6
3

2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU

AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
Other
Midday
AM Early
PM Late
PM Evening
Other
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Late
Midday
Midday
Other
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak

135
66
29
324
133
43
RX
FF1
135
8
17
BOND
133
205
DASH
ATA
169
52
1
17
135
L
139
32
135
LD1
104L
225
30
38
133
19
36
29
49
205
169
92
7
135
402L
48
GS
139

33
50
33
50
50
17
50
50
50
33
50
17
50
50
49
49
49
49
49
16
16
49
98
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
48
48
48
32
48
48
48
16
32
48
48
48
48

4
8
4
3
5
4
6
3
6
3
6
4
5
7
6
1
6
5
5
5
2
12
12
6
6
1
3
6
3
6
5
3
4
6
2
7
6
4
2
4
6
6
4
6

2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA

PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
AM Early
PM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Early
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
PM Late
PM Peak
Other
Other
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Peak

DASH
225
169L
NB2
4
135
88
8
206
93L
GS
36
30
12
9
L
120
66
169L
327
169
402L
DASH
169
120
DASH
135
L
208
88L
BOND
BOLT
FF1
120X
4
66
21
JUMP
28
120E
120
402L
NB3
11

16
48
96
48
96
48
48
32
96
48
48
32
16
16
95
48
48
32
16
47
47
32
47
47
94
16
31
47
94
47
47
47
16
93
31
31
46
46
46
46
31
46
31
46

2
6
4
5
12
6
6
3
13
6
4
4
1
3
12
8
6
4
1
6
6
4
6
6
12
2
4
8
12
6
7
5
1
15
4
4
5
7
5
6
4
6
3
2

2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_FR
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK

AM Early
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Evening
Other

169
20
29
65
8
12
135
28
SKIP
326
24
92
104L
402L
135
402L
327
120
19
49
100
402L
66
120X
133
24
RX
BOND
4
LD1
120X
88
24
92
169L
21
225T
BOND
402L
88L
120L
120E
327
139

46
46
46
46
31
15
46
46
46
45
45
30
45
30
15
45
90
45
45
15
15
88
88
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
88
44
29
44
44
44
44
15
87
44
87
43
87
43

6
6
6
6
3
3
6
5
11
6
4
3
3
4
2
6
12
6
3
2
2
12
12
7
5
4
5
6
6
1
15
6
3
4
2
4
3
4
12
6
12
6
12
6

2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU

Other
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Late
PM Late
Other
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Peak
Midday
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
AM Early
Midday
Midday
PM Late
Other
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
Other
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Peak

20
43
326
93L
43
93L
59
DASH
93L
139
135
120L
49
133
L
RX
24
135
208
139
9
LD3
120E
JUMP
4
100
120X
93L
139
120
169L
169
139
BOND
24
92
FF1
402L
66
88L
1
6
402L
120L

43
43
87
86
43
86
43
43
43
43
43
43
29
43
43
43
14
43
43
85
28
85
85
42
28
14
42
28
85
28
42
14
42
42
42
14
14
83
42
42
41
14
28
41

6
11
12
11
11
11
6
6
6
6
6
6
2
5
8
5
2
6
6
12
3
11
12
7
4
2
8
4
12
4
2
2
6
7
4
2
1
12
5
6
5
2
4
6

2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_MT
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK

PM Late
Other
Midday
Midday
Other
Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Late
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak

L
6
28
28
208
ATA
120
28
BOND
323
133
208
169L
65
L
28
225
28
ATA
P
120E
402L
LD3
66
59
43
36
88L
92
BOLT
SKIP
130
120L
14
99
205
65
93L
120E
32
59
17
323
NB2

41
14
14
41
82
41
27
41
41
41
41
41
81
41
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
79
40
40
40
39
79
13
39
39
39
78
13
26
39
39
78
26
78
78
39
77
77

8
2
2
5
12
1
4
5
6
6
5
3
4
4
12
5
7
5
1
2
6
6
11
5
6
11
6
12
2
4
5
5
12
1
5
4
6
12
4
12
12
12
12
6

2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA

PM Late
AM Early
AM Early
PM Late
Midday
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Late
PM Peak
Other
AM Peak
Midday
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
Other
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
Other
Other
Other
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Evening
Midday
Midday
Other
Midday
Midday

139
93L
1
65
9
120
1
327
225
CV
36
327
169L
NB2
CV
402L
327
NB3
130
93L
65
NB2
93L
402L
66
10
139
88L
208
20
169
32
112
93L
36
120E
66
225
120L
83D
6
29
30
DASH

77
26
38
13
26
38
13
77
38
38
38
38
76
25
13
25
76
38
38
75
13
25
38
38
37
37
25
75
37
12
12
74
74
37
37
25
24
37
24
73
36
36
36
36

12
4
4
2
3
6
2
12
6
3
4
6
4
3
1
4
12
4
5
12
2
3
6
6
8
3
3
12
6
2
2
12
12
6
4
4
4
6
4
2
3
3
3
4

2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU

Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
Other
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
Other
PM Evening
Midday
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
Midday
Midday
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
Midday
Other
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak

FF1
35
59
93L
92
24
92
66
205
323
38
135
CV
326
28
44
99
32
205
66
93L
17
17
120L
49
DASH
BOLT
24
169
59
169
88L
83D
205
204
72
402L
88L
88L
P
100
NB2
100
24

36
12
73
36
36
24
36
36
36
72
36
12
36
24
12
12
24
71
36
36
71
35
12
35
35
35
35
23
12
35
12
35
23
34
34
34
68
68
68
34
34
23
68
23

3
1
12
6
4
3
4
8
4
12
4
2
3
5
2
2
5
12
4
4
12
12
2
6
4
4
4
3
2
6
2
6
1
4
6
2
12
12
12
2
6
3
12
3

2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU

Other
AM Early
Midday
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
Midday
Other
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
Other
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
PM Evening

112
483
48
483
30
100
NB3
32
35
120L
3
93L
112
120L
35
120L
32
21
116X
30
24
49
LD3
100
88L
139
NB2
225
204
72
205
120L
14
327
135
28
49
29
99
88L
112
83D
1
3

67
22
11
22
34
67
67
22
33
67
33
33
33
33
11
33
66
33
33
33
33
11
33
11
33
33
65
33
33
33
32
65
11
32
11
11
32
11
11
21
32
64
11
32

12
3
2
3
3
12
6
4
4
12
5
6
6
6
1
6
12
5
3
1
4
2
3
2
6
6
6
4
6
2
4
12
1
6
2
2
4
1
3
4
6
2
2
5

2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_DPSWK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA

Midday
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
Other
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
Midday
Other
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
PM Late
AM Early
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
Midday
AM Early
Other

205
6
36
44
32
59
59
38
7
88L
225
120X
88
10
139
12
JUMP
65
100
EV
36
NB2
130
93L
120L
204
LD3
7
228A
120L
100
139
CV
FMR
3
59
32
88L
17
228A
145X
88
36
3

32
32
32
11
32
32
63
31
31
31
31
31
10
31
21
31
31
31
10
31
31
21
10
62
21
31
31
31
31
31
31
20
10
10
30
30
20
60
10
30
10
10
30
30

4
3
4
1
6
6
12
4
6
6
3
7
2
3
3
5
4
4
2
3
6
3
2
12
4
6
3
6
6
6
6
3
1
2
5
4
4
12
2
6
1
2
4
4

2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK

PM Late
Other
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Other
Other
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
Other
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
Other
AM Early
PM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Peak
Other
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
Other
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
PM Late
Other

225
3
JUMP
228A
3
LD3
66
93L
20
32
59
66
169L
88L
44
59
169L
4
116X
120L
29
1
88L
120E
88L
4
83D
204
19
EV
59
36
139
36
12
76
228A
44
48
EV
37
59
169L
76

30
30
30
30
30
30
30
20
10
59
20
30
30
59
10
20
29
29
29
19
29
29
29
19
19
29
19
58
10
29
29
29
19
29
28
28
28
9
9
28
56
56
56
28

4
4
4
6
5
2
4
4
2
12
4
5
1
12
1
4
1
6
2
4
3
4
6
3
4
6
1
12
1
2
4
4
3
4
5
5
6
2
2
3
5
12
3
5

2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK

AM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
Midday
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Late
Other
Other
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
Midday
Other

48
49
169
19
116X
326
88L
228A
37
49
32
EV
169
204
51
120E
205
88L
99
32
10
130
4
32
145X
51
LD3
120L
48
402L
59
120L
BOLT
169L
483
204
88L
NB2
32
9
RX
9
225
120W

9
28
28
9
28
18
27
55
55
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
18
9
54
9
9
18
27
9
27
27
27
9
27
18
27
27
26
9
53
18
18
26
26
9
26
26
26

2
4
5
1
2
5
6
12
5
4
5
2
5
6
2
6
4
4
3
12
1
2
3
6
1
3
2
6
2
4
4
6
3
2
2
12
4
3
5
3
1
3
3
5

2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK

AM Early
PM Late
Other
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
Midday
Midday
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
Other
PM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
Other
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Late
Other
PM Peak
AM Early
Midday
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak

100
116X
93L
120
10
112
93L
120L
169L
135
120W
4
100
29
204
112
10
32
BOLT
29
7
402L
EV
88
35
205
59
204
29
228A
DASH
29
169
51
225D
228A
88L
228A
204
NB2
483
225D
327
228A

26
26
26
26
26
17
17
17
26
9
25
17
25
25
25
50
8
25
25
25
8
25
8
8
25
25
16
16
24
49
24
24
24
24
24
16
24
16
24
24
8
24
24
47

6
3
5
6
2
4
4
4
2
1
6
3
6
3
4
12
1
6
3
3
1
4
1
2
4
4
4
4
3
12
6
3
5
3
1
4
6
4
4
3
2
1
2
12

2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU

AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
PM Peak
Other
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
AM Early
AM Early
PM Late
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
PM Late
Midday
Other
PM Late
Other
Other
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
Midday

32
204
12
8
169L
46
88
29
17
28
520
169L
44
228A
520
204
72
169L
DASH
9
10
139
LD3
120L
8
59
59
402L
36
DASH
52
228A
11
51
72
139
116X
10
228A
76
402L
EV
52
76

24
16
23
23
23
23
8
23
23
8
46
46
23
46
23
46
23
23
23
15
8
15
23
23
23
23
45
15
23
23
7
45
22
22
22
22
7
22
15
22
15
7
7
22

6
4
3
2
1
2
2
3
5
2
12
3
2
12
6
12
2
1
4
2
1
2
3
6
2
6
12
2
4
6
1
9
1
1
2
3
1
2
4
4
2
1
1
3

2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_DPSWK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA

AM Peak
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
Other
AM Early
Midday
Midday
Other
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
AM Peak
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
AM Early
Midday
Other
PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
Other
PM Evening
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
Other

32
204
88L
228A
NB2
402L
LD3
76
32
206
FF3
169
112
520
59
116X
35
204
324
324
88L
65
120L
29
LD3
112
520
30
29
FMR
204
32
29
120L
112
FMR
35
520
204
46
1
17
32
14

15
22
7
15
22
22
15
22
22
15
15
22
22
22
22
7
22
22
14
14
21
21
21
21
21
42
42
21
7
7
42
7
7
21
21
7
21
21
21
14
20
20
20
7

4
4
1
4
3
4
2
4
5
3
2
5
6
6
6
1
4
4
1
1
6
3
6
3
3
12
12
1
1
2
8
1
1
6
6
2
4
6
3
1
2
5
6
1

2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA

PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
Other
PM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
Other
PM Peak
PM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
Midday
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
Midday
AM Early
AM Early
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Late
Other
AM Peak
AM Early

51
169L
35
112
112
46
112
204
402L
RX
228A
120L
204
44
135
99
520
32
139
93L
20
120E
10
228A
LD3
112
112
59
204
NB3
35
DASH
520
9
17
324
225
46
120X
169L
112
JUMP
LD3
323

20
20
7
13
20
20
40
13
20
7
40
20
20
20
7
20
13
13
19
19
6
19
6
13
13
19
19
38
13
19
6
19
19
13
19
12
6
12
19
19
37
18
12
18

2
1
1
4
6
2
12
4
4
1
9
6
4
2
1
5
4
4
3
5
1
6
1
3
2
3
6
12
4
4
1
4
6
2
4
1
1
1
2
1
12
4
2
2

2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK

Other
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Early
Midday
PM Late
PM Late
Other
AM Early
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Early
Other
AM Peak
PM Evening
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
Midday
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak

51
59
208
99
520
44
326
LD3
520
228A
LD3
46
76
130
32
112
12
520
205
208
46
46
6
LD3
130
30
52
130
0L
228A
12
139
112
7
88L
520
206
228A
520
JUMP
326
11
30
FF3

18
18
18
18
18
18
12
6
36
18
36
12
18
18
12
18
18
12
6
18
12
12
17
35
17
17
17
17
11
11
17
11
11
6
6
17
11
17
17
17
17
17
17
11

1
4
3
5
6
2
2
1
12
3
5
1
3
3
4
3
3
4
1
3
1
1
2
5
3
1
1
2
1
3
3
2
4
1
1
6
3
3
6
4
2
1
1
2

2024_05_DPSWK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_DPSWK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU

PM Peak
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Peak
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
Midday
PM Peak
Midday
PM Evening
Other
Other
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
Other
Midday
Other
AM Peak
Other
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
Other
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Evening

520
169L
169L
520
130
327
20
324
327
59
112
145X
88
228F
6
169L
52
520
169L
12
44
SKIP
NB2
7
35
326
100
1
145X
10
520
20
120X
NB2
327
225
17
7
225T
CV
228F
32
327
169L

11
17
16
33
16
16
5
11
11
16
11
5
16
16
16
16
16
11
16
16
16
16
16
5
16
10
5
15
5
15
15
15
15
15
10
5
15
15
10
15
15
5
10
14

4
1
1
12
2
2
1
1
2
4
4
1
2
3
1
1
1
4
1
3
2
5
4
1
2
2
2
2
1
2
6
1
2
2
2
1
4
2
1
1
3
1
2
1

2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA

PM Evening
PM Late
PM Late
Midday
Other
AM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Evening
AM Early
Other
PM Peak
Other
PM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
Other
Other
Other
PM Late
AM Early
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
PM Late
AM Early
Other
AM Peak
Other
Other
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
Other
Other
PM Evening
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Late

65
20
20
11
LD3
32
19
228A
7
120
169L
120L
LD3
1
32
52
120
LD3
225T
CV
19
52
120E
14
88
323
35
88L
120L
29
6
LD3
LD3
9
4
326
402L
7
9
228A
6
10
DASH
14

14
14
14
14
14
5
14
14
14
14
14
5
5
14
9
14
14
14
14
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
9
4
4
13
13
9
9
4
13
13
13
9
13
13
12
12
4

3
1
1
1
3
1
1
4
2
2
1
1
1
1
3
2
2
3
2
1
1
2
2
1
2
2
2
2
1
1
2
3
2
1
1
2
2
2
1
4
1
2
4
1

2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA

Other
Other
Other
Other
PM Late
AM Early
Other
PM Late
Other
PM Late
PM Peak
AM Early
AM Early
Other
PM Evening
Other
PM Late
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
Other
Other
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
Other
PM Late
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
Other
Other
Other
AM Early

19
169L
88
7
323
FF5
100
BOLT
228F
120X
169L
145X
BOND
205
402L
14
20
19
BOLT
30
59
FF3
228F
FF3
FF5
120E
7
65
88L
145X
4
327
BOND
0L
32
46
112
DASH
BOND
30
88
92
402L
32

12
12
12
12
12
24
4
12
12
12
12
4
12
4
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
11
11
11
23
11
4
11
7
4
4
7
11
7
11
7
11
11
10
10
10
10
3
3

1
1
2
2
2
1
2
2
3
2
1
1
3
1
2
1
1
1
2
1
3
2
3
2
1
2
1
2
2
1
1
2
2
1
3
1
3
4
3
1
2
1
1
1

2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU

Other
PM Late
Other
Other
AM Peak
Midday
AM Early
Other
AM Peak
Other
PM Late
AM Early
Other
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
Other
Other
Other
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
Midday
PM Late
AM Early
Other
PM Evening
AM Early
AM Early
PM Evening
Other
PM Evening
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
Other
Other
Other
AM Peak
AM Early
AM Early

32
BOND
112
20
120X
BOND
1
327
LD3
120X
92
402L
30
30
51
59
112
327
88
112
228A
36
59
88
145X
59
208
49
65
88L
402L
120W
88L
88L
208
36
49
32
93L
36
29
32
29
BOND

10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
3
10
10
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
17
9
6
9
8
8
3
6
8
8
5
8
8
3
8
8
8
8
8
8

3
1
3
1
1
2
1
2
3
1
1
1
1
1
1
3
3
2
2
3
2
2
3
2
2
3
1
1
2
2
1
1
2
2
1
2
1
1
1
2
2
3
2
1

2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_DPSWK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU

PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
Other
AM Peak
Other
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
AM Early
Other
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
AM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
Other
PM Late
Other
Midday
PM Late
PM Evening
Other
Other
PM Late
AM Early
PM Evening
PM Late
AM Peak
PM Evening
Other
Other
AM Early
AM Peak
Other
Other
PM Late
Other
AM Peak

208
JUMP
29
228A
402L
36
RX
120X
59
32
112
JUMP
145X
88L
NB2
120L
228A
228A
93L
93L
228A
93L
88L
120L
32
208
1
36
204
323
CV
NB3
59
204
RX
51
20
88L
4
520
29
228A
520
206

5
2
7
7
2
7
5
7
7
7
5
7
14
7
7
2
7
7
5
5
7
7
7
2
2
4
7
7
7
6
6
2
6
6
4
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
2

1
1
2
2
1
2
1
2
2
3
1
1
2
2
2
1
2
2
1
1
2
1
2
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
1
1
2
2
1
1
1
2
1
2
2
2
2
1

2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_DPSWK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK

PM Evening
AM Early
Other
PM Late
AM Early
Other
PM Evening
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
Other
Midday
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Evening
PM Evening
AM Peak
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Early
AM Early
PM Evening
Other
Other
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
AM Early
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Evening
AM Peak
Other
AM Peak
PM Late
PM Late
Other
PM Late
PM Late
AM Early

225
120L
145X
36
206
228F
145X
228A
225
29
93L
228F
228F
NB2
93L
228A
CV
4
520
204
32
483
93L
228F
145X
NB2
120L
29
LD3
112
JUMP
145X
483
520
93L
NB2
145X
66
145X
120
1
SKIP
145X
NB2

6
6
11
6
2
11
5
5
5
5
5
4
10
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
3
9
2
5
5
5
3
4
9
4
4
4
4
8
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

1
1
2
2
1
3
1
2
1
1
1
1
3
1
1
2
1
1
2
2
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
2
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SU
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SU
2024_01_SA

Other
Other
Midday
Other
AM Early
Midday
Other
PM Late
Other
Other
PM Late
PM Evening
Midday
AM Peak
PM Late
AM Peak
Other
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
Other
PM Late
PM Evening
Midday
AM Early
Other
Other
Other
PM Evening
Other
Midday
Other
PM Late
PM Late
PM Late
Midday
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other

120L
120L
JUMP
204
120E
NB2
28
LD3
SKIP
28
145X
0L
145X
LD3
49
NB2
66
49
NB3
NB2
145X
32
LD3

4
4
4
4
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
5
3
3
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2

1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

2024_01_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SU
2024_05_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SU
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_01_WK
2024_05_SA
2024_05_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_01_SA
2024_05_WK
2024_01_WK
2024_01_SA
2024_05_SU
2024_01_SA

Other
Other
Other
PM Late
Other
PM Late
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Midday
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
PM Late
Other

Boardings/Trip
57
56
53
52
42
40
46
39
56
37
58
56
53
53
51
33
49
32
52
52
46
49
45
44
48
26
46
45
47
29
41
40
40
40
39
51
41
38
38
34
37
37
38

Boardings/Hour
777
768
666
654
571
552
542
458
455
447
446
430
429
425
407
391
388
388
383
381
369
365
358
353
350
350
350
345
343
343
331
322
321
320
314
308
306
305
304
302
295
295
294

Approx Freq
9
9
9
9
9
9
10
10
15
10
16
16
15
15
15
10
15
10
16
16
15
16
15
15
16
9
16
16
16
10
15
15
15
15
15
20
16
15
15
13
15
15
16

36
36
23
39
36
36
36
35
34
35
35
36
33
36
36
33
32
44
29
32
32
33
32
32
34
34
30
30
30
30
30
30
65
29
52
44
29
28
30
28
61
37
29
28

290
288
287
287
286
286
285
284
283
281
279
279
279
272
266
266
265
263
261
257
257
254
253
252
248
247
244
243
242
242
242
241
237
235
235
234
228
227
226
226
224
224
221
220

15
15
10
16
15
15
15
15
14
15
15
16
14
16
16
15
15
20
13
15
15
16
15
15
16
16
15
15
15
15
15
15
33
15
27
23
15
15
16
15
33
20
16
15

29
30
60
50
27
59
40
27
14
49
35
27
29
27
26
26
38
26
26
47
51
25
34
45
33
25
25
25
31
50
25
49
25
24
25
30
24
47
23
46
46
46
24
33

220
220
219
219
217
216
216
215
214
213
213
212
211
210
209
207
207
204
204
204
204
202
201
201
200
200
199
199
199
198
198
197
196
195
193
192
190
188
187
186
186
184
183
182

16
16
33
28
15
33
23
15
8
28
20
15
16
16
15
15
22
15
15
28
30
15
20
27
20
15
15
15
18
30
15
30
15
15
16
18
15
30
15
30
30
30
16
22

45
23
45
23
45
22
51
22
22
22
41
22
44
22
44
40
44
44
43
39
40
37
14
39
23
39
36
21
21
39
46
42
42
21
33
41
41
41
41
41
41
38
22
23

182
182
181
181
180
179
178
178
178
178
177
176
176
175
175
175
175
175
174
173
173
172
171
171
170
169
169
169
168
168
168
168
167
165
165
165
164
164
164
164
163
163
162
161

30
15
30
15
30
15
34
15
15
15
28
15
30
15
30
28
30
30
30
27
28
26
10
28
16
28
26
15
15
28
33
30
30
15
24
30
30
30
30
30
30
28
16
17

40
19
20
20
37
32
40
40
21
39
20
39
39
43
39
42
36
39
39
19
38
20
19
38
18
20
35
38
41
38
35
32
19
19
28
37
18
18
37
20
37
37
18
21

161
160
160
160
160
159
159
158
158
158
157
156
156
156
156
156
155
155
154
154
154
154
153
153
153
153
152
152
151
151
150
150
149
148
148
148
148
148
147
147
147
147
146
146

30
14
15
15
28
24
30
30
16
30
15
30
30
33
30
33
28
30
30
15
30
16
15
30
14
16
28
30
33
30
28
26
16
15
23
30
15
15
30
16
30
30
15
17

37
31
36
36
21
36
36
36
41
18
36
18
39
35
35
33
19
35
31
35
30
35
35
22
35
35
30
35
19
20
32
35
35
32
22
34
39
34
34
31
31
33
19
36

146
145
145
145
145
145
144
144
143
143
143
142
142
142
141
141
141
141
141
140
140
140
140
140
140
140
140
140
140
139
139
139
138
138
138
137
137
137
136
135
135
134
134
134

30
26
30
30
17
30
30
30
34
15
30
15
33
30
30
28
16
30
27
30
26
30
30
19
30
30
26
30
16
17
28
30
30
28
19
30
34
30
30
28
28
30
17
33

17
31
17
36
33
33
33
16
25
33
33
33
36
39
33
37
32
18
32
32
16
32
32
35
16
32
32
32
16
32
11
31
31
31
25
31
37
31
16
31
25
31
17
31

133
133
133
133
132
132
132
132
132
131
131
131
131
131
130
130
130
128
128
128
128
127
127
127
127
127
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
125
125
125
124
124
124
124
124
123
123
123

15
28
15
33
30
30
30
15
23
30
30
30
33
36
30
34
30
17
30
30
15
30
30
33
15
30
30
30
15
30
11
30
30
30
24
30
36
30
15
30
24
30
16
30

26
41
31
26
31
26
46
31
15
30
30
30
20
24
15
15
30
30
30
30
16
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
15
15
30
15
15
30
15
29
29
29
29
29
29
33

123
123
122
122
122
122
122
122
122
122
122
121
121
121
121
121
121
121
121
121
121
120
120
120
120
120
120
120
119
119
119
119
119
118
118
118
118
117
117
116
116
116
115
115

26
40
30
26
30
26
45
30
15
30
30
30
20
24
15
15
30
30
30
30
16
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
15
15
30
15
15
30
15
30
30
30
30
30
30
34

20
38
29
29
29
23
43
30
26
28
28
28
15
28
28
26
28
28
28
22
14
28
28
16
27
19
27
27
14
27
13
27
27
25
27
31
25
27
23
49
27
25
27
29

115
115
114
114
114
114
114
114
114
114
114
114
114
113
113
113
112
112
112
112
112
111
110
110
109
109
109
109
108
108
108
108
108
108
107
107
107
107
107
107
107
107
106
106

21
40
30
30
30
24
45
31
28
30
30
30
16
30
30
28
30
30
30
24
15
30
30
17
30
21
30
30
15
30
15
30
30
28
30
34
28
30
26
55
30
28
30
33

20
26
13
21
30
35
35
13
26
28
35
26
26
35
26
12
26
26
26
26
13
28
26
26
26
17
26
8
34
25
13
25
25
25
25
25
25
17
29
13
13
25
12
25

106
105
105
105
105
104
104
104
104
104
104
104
104
104
104
104
104
103
103
103
103
103
103
102
102
102
102
102
102
102
101
101
101
101
101
101
101
101
100
100
100
100
100
100

23
30
15
24
34
40
40
15
30
33
40
30
30
40
30
14
30
30
30
30
15
33
30
30
30
20
30
10
40
30
15
30
30
30
30
30
30
20
34
15
15
30
15
30

25
14
13
14
25
8
25
25
25
25
25
25
20
24
24
28
14
24
19
24
24
24
26
32
44
12
24
12
14
19
18
24
24
23
36
22
24
23
24
27
24
23
13
12

99
99
99
99
99
99
99
98
98
98
98
98
98
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
96
96
96
96
96
96
96
96
96
96
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
94
94
94
94
94
93

30
17
16
17
30
10
30
30
30
30
30
30
24
30
30
34
17
30
23
30
30
30
33
40
55
15
30
15
17
24
23
30
30
29
45
28
30
29
30
34
30
30
17
15

23
23
31
19
31
23
23
15
21
31
23
26
23
34
23
12
25
23
30
23
23
23
23
45
18
24
30
22
12
22
14
13
21
22
22
14
24
22
44
29
11
19
20
22

93
93
93
93
93
93
93
93
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
91
91
91
91
90
90
90
90
90
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
87
87

30
30
40
24
40
30
30
19
28
40
30
34
30
45
30
16
33
30
40
30
30
30
30
60
24
33
40
30
16
30
19
17
29
30
30
19
33
30
60
40
15
26
28
30

20
22
43
21
22
22
40
11
21
21
11
21
13
7
42
12
24
21
28
28
23
16
21
21
23
19
21
21
28
21
24
24
24
21
11
11
23
21
31
21
27
21
20
20

87
87
87
86
86
86
86
86
86
86
85
85
85
85
85
85
85
85
85
84
84
84
84
84
84
84
84
84
83
83
83
83
83
83
83
83
83
83
83
82
82
82
82
82

28
30
60
29
30
30
55
15
30
30
15
30
19
10
60
17
34
30
40
40
33
23
30
30
33
28
30
30
40
30
34
34
34
30
16
16
33
30
45
30
40
30
30
30

13
38
38
23
27
20
20
37
7
20
20
20
10
19
10
11
11
34
11
19
40
40
20
22
18
21
20
7
20
39
26
26
39
22
22
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19

82
81
81
81
81
81
81
81
81
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
79
79
79
79
79
79
79
79
79
79
79
79
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
77
77
77

18
55
55
34
40
30
30
55
10
30
30
30
15
29
16
16
17
51
17
29
60
60
30
33
28
33
30
10
30
60
40
40
60
34
34
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30

14
19
19
19
31
10
25
19
16
19
38
9
10
22
12
17
15
17
19
19
18
19
9
19
25
19
25
19
12
18
18
17
18
18
12
18
24
18
20
18
18
21
26
34

77
77
77
77
77
77
76
76
76
76
76
76
76
76
75
75
75
75
75
75
75
75
75
75
75
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
73
73
73
73
73
73
73
73

22
30
30
30
48
15
40
30
26
30
60
15
16
34
19
28
24
28
30
30
29
30
15
30
40
30
40
30
20
30
30
28
30
30
20
30
40
30
33
30
30
34
42
55

9
20
21
20
18
15
9
20
36
18
20
11
18
18
10
18
18
20
24
20
27
16
14
18
18
18
16
18
18
17
19
17
28
17
17
20
17
9
17
17
17
17
17
25

73
73
73
73
73
73
73
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
71
71
71
71
71
71
71
71
71
71
71
71
71
70
70
70
70
70
69
69
69
69
69
69
69
68
68
68
68
68

15
33
34
33
30
24
15
33
60
30
33
18
30
30
17
30
30
34
40
34
45
28
24
30
30
30
28
30
30
29
33
30
48
30
30
34
30
15
30
30
30
30
30
45

25
17
9
16
24
29
8
22
34
22
17
17
17
17
17
17
16
16
25
22
18
16
16
16
18
16
9
16
12
16
16
16
16
18
15
16
16
16
16
32
16
16
27
8

68
68
68
68
67
67
67
67
67
67
67
67
67
67
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
65
65
65
65
65
65
65
65
65
65
65
65
64
64
64
64
64
64
64
64
64
64
64

45
30
16
28
42
51
15
40
60
40
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
45
40
33
30
30
30
33
30
17
30
22
30
30
30
30
33
28
30
30
30
30
60
30
30
51
15

16
16
31
15
27
31
16
15
10
16
31
16
16
10
16
31
17
15
18
24
9
24
16
17
15
15
15
16
9
17
16
20
17
15
15
15
20
18
9
16
15
14
25
15

64
63
63
63
63
63
63
63
63
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
61
61
61
61
61
61
61
61
61
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
59
59

30
30
60
28
51
60
30
29
19
30
60
30
30
20
30
60
33
30
36
48
18
48
31
33
30
30
29
33
18
34
33
40
34
30
30
30
40
36
17
31
30
28
51
30

22
15
30
13
20
25
16
29
29
15
15
15
17
27
15
15
15
15
15
22
15
15
25
15
9
15
12
17
16
14
35
14
25
29
29
14
14
14
16
14
14
14
14
16

59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
58
57
57
57
57
57
57
57
57
57

45
30
60
26
40
51
33
60
60
30
30
30
34
55
30
30
30
30
30
45
30
30
51
30
18
30
24
34
33
30
72
30
51
60
60
30
30
30
34
30
30
30
30
34

14
21
24
14
14
14
14
24
34
15
14
14
21
15
28
8
14
15
28
28
28
19
14
28
14
14
14
14
18
14
33
14
24
27
14
14
27
14
14
27
21
11
14
33

57
57
57
57
57
57
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
55

30
45
51
30
30
30
30
51
72
31
30
30
45
33
60
18
30
31
60
60
60
40
30
60
30
30
30
30
40
30
72
30
51
60
30
30
60
30
30
60
45
24
30
72

13
14
14
14
14
14
14
13
7
27
20
23
18
13
32
12
27
7
14
13
23
18
18
23
26
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
20
13
5
13
17
13
31
13
17
13
6
6

55
55
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
53
53
53
53
53
53
53
53
53
53
53
53
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52
52

29
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
15
60
45
51
40
30
72
28
60
15
33
30
51
40
40
51
60
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
45
30
11
30
40
30
72
30
40
30
15
15

13
12
26
26
13
26
13
13
13
17
15
17
22
26
13
13
14
25
25
12
25
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
25
13
12
12
21
4
12
12
11
12
14
15
25
21
14
25

52
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
49

30
29
60
60
30
60
30
31
30
40
36
40
51
60
30
30
33
60
60
28
60
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
60
30
30
30
51
11
30
30
26
30
33
36
60
51
33
60

25
21
21
12
12
12
12
16
12
15
10
12
12
12
18
15
15
12
24
16
24
12
18
24
12
24
12
12
20
12
24
29
16
10
12
12
12
24
6
12
12
18
24
16

49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
49
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
47
47
47
47
47
47
47
47
47

60
51
51
30
30
30
30
40
30
36
24
30
30
30
45
36
36
30
60
40
60
30
45
60
30
60
30
30
51
30
60
72
40
24
30
30
30
60
15
30
30
45
60
40

6
11
12
13
6
16
12
13
13
23
12
12
23
12
13
23
17
12
23
23
12
12
23
23
12
23
12
12
20
20
11
11
23
23
20
23
11
11
11
20
23
11
23
9

47
47
47
47
47
47
47
47
47
47
47
47
47
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
46
45
45

15
28
30
33
15
40
30
33
33
60
30
30
60
30
33
60
45
30
60
60
30
30
60
60
30
60
31
30
51
51
30
30
60
60
51
60
30
30
30
51
60
30
60
24

11
23
12
15
15
19
23
11
27
11
22
22
11
11
22
11
11
11
11
22
11
11
11
22
11
22
22
19
11
19
12
22
16
13
11
22
22
19
16
19
11
11
11
16

45
45
45
45
45
45
45
45
45
45
45
45
45
45
45
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44

30
60
31
40
40
51
60
30
72
30
60
60
30
30
60
30
30
30
30
60
30
30
30
60
30
60
60
51
30
51
33
60
45
36
30
60
60
51
45
51
30
30
30
45

12
11
11
11
7
14
16
22
29
11
18
13
22
14
22
21
21
21
21
26
11
26
14
11
11
10
21
11
12
11
21
9
14
21
10
21
10
10
21
21
10
10
11
19

44
44
44
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
43
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
42
41
41
41

33
30
30
30
18
40
45
60
80
30
51
36
60
40
60
60
60
60
60
72
30
72
40
30
30
28
60
30
34
30
60
27
40
60
30
60
30
28
60
60
30
30
33
55

14
14
10
10
21
10
18
12
18
20
10
20
12
10
11
10
10
6
10
20
10
11
20
20
10
10
10
10
17
10
10
20
24
10
10
20
10
20
10
20
18
15
13
10

41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
41
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
39

40
40
30
30
60
30
51
34
51
60
30
60
36
30
33
30
30
18
30
60
30
33
60
60
30
30
30
30
51
30
30
60
72
30
30
60
30
60
30
60
55
45
40
30

20
10
20
10
10
20
10
39
13
10
20
20
10
26
19
10
19
19
19
10
17
19
19
23
19
19
19
19
10
19
19
19
10
13
7
10
13
10
10
19
10
10
10
19

39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
39
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38

60
30
60
30
30
60
30
120
40
30
60
60
30
80
60
30
60
60
60
30
51
60
60
72
60
60
60
60
30
60
60
60
31
40
21
30
40
30
30
60
33
30
30
60

13
19
19
19
13
8
38
19
9
19
9
19
9
19
16
19
19
9
19
9
11
9
9
19
19
16
10
16
16
11
19
19
19
19
9
10
9
9
18
9
18
9
12
16

38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
38
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37

40
60
60
60
40
27
120
60
30
60
30
60
30
60
51
60
60
30
60
30
36
30
30
60
60
51
33
51
51
36
60
60
60
60
30
33
30
30
60
30
60
30
40
51

9
9
16
9
11
37
9
18
15
18
18
9
18
18
16
18
18
8
8
18
15
18
6
36
18
18
9
10
11
18
18
8
18
18
18
18
9
9
18
18
35
18
12
10

37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
37
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
35
35
35
35

30
30
51
30
36
120
30
60
48
60
60
30
60
60
51
60
60
27
27
60
51
60
18
120
60
60
30
33
38
60
60
28
60
60
60
60
30
30
60
60
120
60
40
34

9
5
18
13
18
9
18
9
18
18
9
12
10
12
17
17
7
17
10
9
17
17
17
17
9
9
15
17
14
17
17
17
9
17
34
10
9
9
17
6
8
17
17
17

35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
35
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34

30
18
60
45
60
30
60
31
60
60
30
40
33
40
60
60
24
60
36
30
60
60
60
60
33
30
51
60
48
60
60
60
30
60
120
34
31
30
60
23
30
60
60
60

17
8
16
17
17
8
20
10
8
14
8
17
8
14
8
33
8
15
17
8
17
12
8
8
16
16
16
18
8
16
8
16
9
16
12
8
16
8
16
9
16
16
8
33

34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
33

60
30
55
60
60
30
72
36
30
51
30
60
30
51
30
120
30
55
60
30
60
45
30
30
60
60
60
65
30
60
30
60
33
60
45
30
60
30
60
33
60
60
30
120

8
16
14
6
16
16
16
8
16
16
16
11
13
16
16
13
16
16
9
16
16
16
8
19
16
16
6
16
8
9
11
16
16
13
16
16
9
12
16
9
19
12
16
8

33
33
33
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
32
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31

30
60
51
24
60
60
60
30
60
60
60
40
48
60
60
48
60
60
34
60
60
60
30
72
60
60
24
60
30
33
40
60
60
51
60
60
36
45
60
33
72
48
60
33

8
16
16
9
16
16
15
15
8
13
15
8
8
15
15
8
15
15
15
15
8
15
15
8
8
8
15
13
15
30
15
15
15
13
12
8
15
15
15
15
6
15
6
12

31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
31
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30

30
60
60
36
60
60
60
60
30
51
60
30
30
60
60
33
60
60
60
60
30
60
60
30
30
30
60
51
60
120
60
60
60
51
48
30
60
60
60
60
23
60
23
48

15
15
15
15
15
10
15
14
5
15
15
15
7
15
12
15
15
9
7
15
15
15
15
29
15
7
15
12
15
7
15
15
7
15
7
12
14
14
14
7
11
14
14
14

30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29

60
60
60
60
60
40
60
55
21
60
60
60
30
60
48
60
60
36
30
60
60
60
60
120
60
30
60
48
60
30
60
60
30
60
30
51
60
60
60
30
45
60
60
60

7
7
11
14
14
14
14
12
16
7
14
14
14
7
14
29
14
14
11
14
28
14
11
14
28
14
17
21
14
14
17
5
5
14
14
14
19
14
14
14
14
14
14
14

29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
29
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28

30
30
45
60
60
60
60
51
65
30
60
60
60
30
60
120
60
60
48
60
120
60
45
60
120
60
72
90
60
60
72
23
20
60
60
60
80
60
60
60
60
60
60
60

14
17
14
13
14
14
14
16
14
12
14
7
14
12
12
7
14
27
14
14
14
7
13
14
9
7
14
13
16
7
13
13
27
27
13
13
13
20
10
7
16
13
13
13

28
28
28
28
28
28
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27
27

60
72
60
55
60
60
60
72
60
51
60
30
60
51
51
30
60
120
60
60
60
30
55
60
40
30
60
60
72
30
60
60
120
120
60
60
60
90
45
30
72
60
60
60

13
27
20
13
5
13
11
10
13
13
13
13
13
7
9
13
13
13
26
11
13
5
10
17
7
13
13
13
7
7
13
6
13
13
7
13
13
13
13
13
7
6
13
13

27
27
27
27
27
27
27
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26
26

60
120
90
60
23
60
48
45
60
60
60
60
60
30
40
60
60
60
120
51
60
23
45
80
30
60
60
60
30
33
60
30
60
60
33
60
60
60
60
60
33
30
60
60

10
13
13
13
4
15
13
13
10
13
13
6
13
13
13
19
6
13
13
13
25
13
13
13
13
15
13
9
13
6
13
38
13
13
13
11
12
12
12
12
12
8
12
12

26
26
26
26
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25

48
60
60
60
17
72
60
60
45
60
60
30
60
60
60
90
30
60
60
60
120
60
60
60
60
72
60
45
60
30
60
180
60
60
60
51
60
60
60
60
55
40
60
60

12
11
12
25
12
12
25
12
8
12
5
9
12
12
12
12
10
12
12
12
12
12
15
9
12
12
10
6
12
12
10
12
8
12
12
12
16
12
12
12
12
12
12
9

25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24

60
51
60
120
60
60
120
60
40
60
23
45
60
60
60
60
48
60
60
60
60
60
72
45
60
60
48
30
60
60
51
60
40
60
60
60
80
60
60
60
60
60
60
45

12
11
24
8
12
12
6
12
6
36
12
8
12
12
10
12
12
24
12
9
12
12
12
6
24
4
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
6
12
23
14
9
10
12
8
17
12
15

24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23

60
55
120
40
60
60
30
60
30
180
60
40
60
60
51
60
60
120
60
48
60
60
60
30
120
20
45
60
60
60
60
60
60
30
60
120
72
45
51
60
40
90
60
80

6
6
11
11
6
4
4
14
11
11
6
11
11
23
10
11
11
8
7
11
17
8
12
11
23
11
11
11
17
22
11
11
11
4
22
8
17
4
13
15
7
9
11
11

23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22

30
30
60
60
30
20
23
72
60
60
30
60
60
120
51
60
60
40
36
60
90
40
65
60
120
60
60
60
90
120
60
60
60
23
120
45
90
24
72
80
40
51
60
60

33
17
9
11
11
13
11
16
11
11
11
33
5
9
11
11
16
5
11
11
22
11
11
5
21
11
11
11
8
11
11
11
9
5
11
11
11
8
11
11
4
11
16
21

22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21

180
90
48
60
60
72
60
90
60
60
60
180
30
48
60
60
90
30
60
60
120
60
60
30
120
60
60
60
45
60
60
60
48
30
60
60
60
45
60
60
23
60
90
120

5
11
11
11
6
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
12
5
10
10
10
10
5
10
6
10
10
10
10
10
14
10
31
10
10
15
5
6
10
10
10
10
7
12
10
10

21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20

30
60
60
60
33
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
72
30
60
60
60
60
30
60
33
60
60
60
60
60
80
60
180
60
60
90
30
33
60
60
60
60
40
72
60
60

9
30
10
30
12
10
30
8
10
10
5
10
10
10
10
10
10
30
13
13
10
10
10
8
10
10
10
20
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
8
20
13
20
12
10
10
11
10

20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
19
19
19
19

55
180
60
180
72
60
180
48
60
60
30
60
60
60
60
60
60
180
80
80
60
60
60
48
60
60
60
120
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
51
120
80
120
72
60
60
65
60

5
15
10
19
10
10
19
5
10
19
6
5
10
10
10
5
10
5
10
10
10
4
19
14
13
9
14
19
9
9
9
11
9
19
6
11
9
9
9
9
11
6
9
9

19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19

30
90
60
120
60
60
120
30
60
120
40
33
60
60
60
33
60
30
60
60
60
24
120
90
80
60
90
120
60
60
60
72
60
120
40
72
60
60
60
60
72
40
60
60

19
9
9
8
28
9
12
9
14
5
9
11
9
6
9
9
14
9
5
9
12
5
14
18
9
5
9
9
9
9
9
27
10
18
9
9
9
9
9
5
9
9
9
12

19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18

120
60
60
51
180
60
80
60
90
33
60
72
60
40
60
60
90
60
30
60
80
30
90
120
60
33
60
60
60
60
60
180
65
120
60
60
60
60
60
33
60
60
60
80

9
9
9
13
10
18
13
9
13
9
9
9
9
10
10
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
9
10
9
26
9
6
9
9
9
8
4
8
17
8
10
8
25
8
8
17

18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17

60
60
60
90
65
120
90
60
90
60
60
60
60
65
72
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
45
60
72
60
180
60
45
60
60
60
55
30
60
120
60
72
60
180
60
60
120

8
6
8
17
10
4
8
17
8
11
8
4
10
7
8
49
8
10
10
3
8
4
8
8
8
49
16
8
16
8
10
16
12
8
16
7
8
12
8
8
8
8
12
8

17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16

60
45
60
120
72
30
60
120
60
80
60
30
72
51
60
360
60
72
72
24
60
30
60
60
60
360
120
60
120
60
72
120
90
60
120
51
60
90
60
60
60
60
90
60

8
8
24
10
8
8
8
11
7
8
12
8
16
5
8
6
8
8
16
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
6
8
8
7
9
16
6
8
8
9
7
9
8
8
8
10
23

16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15

60
60
180
72
60
60
60
80
55
60
90
60
120
40
60
45
60
60
120
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
45
60
60
51
72
120
48
60
60
72
51
72
60
60
60
80
180

8
8
8
8
10
5
8
9
4
8
11
10
15
8
8
7
7
7
15
7
7
7
7
6
9
11
9
7
7
44
6
7
10
11
22
11
15
4
7
7
7
7
7
7

15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
14
14
14

60
60
60
60
80
40
60
72
33
60
90
80
120
60
60
60
60
60
120
60
60
60
60
51
72
90
72
60
60
360
48
60
80
90
180
90
120
30
60
60
60
60
60
60

7
4
7
8
4
8
7
7
7
7
7
7
14
9
5
9
7
7
7
7
9
8
7
6
7
7
5
7
7
7
21
7
7
6
10
7
14
7
8
7
8
7
7
7

14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14

60
33
60
65
33
65
60
60
60
60
60
60
120
72
45
72
60
60
60
60
80
65
60
51
60
60
45
60
60
60
180
60
60
51
90
60
120
60
72
60
72
60
60
60

5
7
7
8
7
41
7
8
7
7
8
14
20
10
3
8
6
8
40
20
7
7
7
8
7
4
7
7
7
10
8
8
7
13
5
10
6
6
6
6
6
3
6
13

14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13

45
60
60
72
60
360
60
72
60
60
72
120
180
90
30
72
51
72
360
180
60
60
65
72
60
33
60
60
60
90
72
72
60
120
48
90
60
60
60
60
60
30
60
120

6
6
10
6
9
6
6
6
6
13
10
6
19
8
13
6
6
9
8
6
6
8
6
6
5
12
8
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
9
6
6
6
6
36
12
12
12
9

13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

60
60
90
60
80
60
60
60
60
120
90
60
180
80
120
60
60
90
72
60
60
80
60
60
45
120
80
60
60
60
60
60
60
60
90
60
60
60
60
360
120
120
120
90

12
12
6
6
9
8
9
5
9
6
9
6
12
5
6
6
5
6
9
9
6
3
6
6
9
9
9
8
6
6
6
6
23
9
6
17
6
6
6
17
6
8
6
8

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11

120
120
60
60
90
80
90
45
90
60
90
60
120
48
60
60
48
60
90
90
60
30
60
60
90
90
90
80
60
60
60
60
240
90
60
180
60
60
60
180
60
80
60
80

6
7
6
7
11
6
11
6
8
6
7
6
6
6
11
6
6
7
11
33
8
5
11
5
5
5
11
8
5
16
8
5
11
5
5
5
8
11
4
5
5
32
5
6

11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
11

60
80
60
80
120
60
120
60
90
60
72
60
60
60
120
60
60
72
120
360
90
60
120
60
60
60
120
90
60
180
90
60
120
60
60
60
90
120
40
60
60
360
60
72

8
11
8
11
5
5
5
8
5
5
10
4
5
10
7
6
8
8
5
10
5
7
5
5
5
5
10
5
5
5
5
7
10
5
6
8
5
5
5
5
10
5
8
8

11
11
11
11
11
11
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10

90
120
90
120
60
60
60
90
60
60
120
51
60
120
80
72
90
90
60
120
60
80
60
60
60
60
120
60
60
60
60
80
120
60
72
90
60
60
60
60
120
60
90
90

7
7
7
5
6
15
7
5
5
5
5
6
30
5
10
5
29
5
15
5
10
7
5
6
5
5
19
5
10
14
7
7
6
7
6
6
5
5
5
9
11
5
19
6

10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

90
90
90
60
72
180
90
60
60
60
60
72
360
60
120
60
360
60
180
60
120
90
60
80
60
60
240
60
120
180
90
90
80
90
72
72
60
60
60
120
144
60
240
72

5
7
6
9
14
4
5
5
11
7
5
14
5
5
14
5
7
5
3
5
9
4
6
4
9
9
13
4
4
7
4
4
9
13
4
4
4
6
5
9
9
9
9
5

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

60
90
72
120
180
48
60
60
144
90
72
180
72
60
180
60
90
60
40
60
120
60
80
60
120
120
180
60
60
90
60
60
120
180
60
60
60
80
72
120
120
120
120
72

4
9
5
4
13
4
4
4
13
9
4
6
4
8
6
4
8
4
8
8
8
6
8
4
6
6
4
4
8
4
4
8
5
8
24
4
4
4
6
8
4
24
12
4

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8

60
120
72
60
180
60
60
60
180
120
60
80
60
120
90
60
120
60
120
120
120
90
120
60
90
90
60
60
120
60
60
120
72
120
360
60
60
60
90
120
60
360
180
60

4
4
8
12
23
12
4
8
5
4
4
15
12
4
4
4
11
23
6
8
8
8
8
4
11
4
4
8
6
4
7
5
22
22
11
7
7
11
4
6
7
7
7
7

8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7

60
60
120
180
360
180
60
120
72
60
60
240
180
60
60
60
180
360
90
120
120
120
120
60
180
60
60
120
90
60
120
80
360
360
180
120
120
180
60
90
120
120
120
120

4
6
7
4
7
5
7
5
4
5
7
4
4
4
4
7
5
5
14
14
4
7
4
7
7
4
4
21
7
4
5
7
7
3
3
3
5
3
7
14
10
4
3
7

7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7

60
90
120
60
120
90
120
90
72
80
120
72
60
60
60
120
90
90
240
240
60
120
60
120
120
60
60
360
120
60
90
120
120
60
60
60
90
60
120
240
180
72
60
120

10
20
7
3
3
10
3
3
5
7
4
3
5
10
7
4
3
3
6
4
6
3
6
4
6
6
3
3
3
5
6
5
3
6
5
12
6
12
9
19
3
5
6
9

7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

180
360
120
60
60
180
60
60
90
120
80
60
90
180
120
72
60
60
120
72
120
60
120
80
120
120
60
60
60
90
120
90
60
120
90
240
120
240
180
360
60
90
120
180

18
5
6
4
3
9
6
6
3
6
7
12
6
6
3
6
6
3
6
6
12
12
9
7
6
17
17
9
11
4
6
6
3
6
6
3
4
6
3
4
8
17
17
6

6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

360
90
120
72
60
180
120
120
60
120
144
240
120
120
60
120
120
60
120
120
240
240
180
144
120
360
360
180
240
80
120
120
60
120
120
60
80
120
60
90
180
360
360
120

3
17
16
3
8
8
5
11
5
4
3
5
8
5
16
16
16
3
16
5
8
3
4
5
8
5
3
8
5
8
3
15
7
7
5
5
4
7
10
15
5
5
5
14

6
6
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5

60
360
360
60
180
180
120
240
120
90
60
120
180
120
360
360
360
60
360
120
180
72
90
120
180
120
60
180
120
180
60
360
180
180
120
120
90
180
240
360
120
120
120
360

5
14
14
14
5
5
14
4
7
7
14
5
5
14
3
7
7
5
7
13
13
7
7
13
7
7
7
4
4
4
7
4
4
9
4
6
6
6
9
3
13
6
3
4

5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

120
360
360
360
120
120
360
90
180
180
360
120
120
360
80
180
180
120
180
360
360
180
180
360
180
180
180
120
120
120
180
120
120
240
120
180
180
180
240
90
360
180
90
120

12
12
6
6
6
24
2
6
4
6
12
4
4
4
6
12
12
12
6
12
4
6
4
6
23
6
4
6
4
4
4
4
5
7
4
7
4
3
3
10
5
10
3
3

4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
3
3
3
3
3
3

360
360
180
180
180
720
60
180
120
180
360
120
120
120
180
360
360
360
180
360
120
180
120
180
720
180
120
180
120
120
120
120
180
240
120
240
120
90
120
360
180
360
120
120

3
10
3
10
10
5
10
5
3
10
10
3
10
10
9
3
3
5
5
3
5
5
3
4
9
3
6
9
4
4
3
6
4
4
5
4
8
3
8
4
4
3
4
8

3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3

120
360
120
360
360
180
360
180
120
360
360
120
360
360
360
120
120
180
180
120
180
180
120
180
360
120
240
360
180
180
120
240
180
180
240
180
360
120
360
180
180
120
180
360

5
2
4
4
2
4
5
4
4
2
5
7
7
3
3
2
3
3
5
5
3
7
3
2
2
4
7
3
3
3
6
2
3
3
4
6
6
3
6
3
3
3
3
2

2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2

240
120
180
180
120
180
240
180
180
120
240
360
360
180
180
120
180
180
240
240
180
360
180
120
120
240
360
180
180
180
360
120
180
180
240
360
360
180
360
180
180
180
180
120

6
6
6
3
2
4
5
3
5
5
5
4
3
5
5
3
5
5
3
3
5
5
5
3
5
2
5
5
5
3
4
4
4
2
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

360
360
360
180
120
240
360
180
360
360
360
240
240
360
360
180
360
360
180
180
360
360
360
240
360
120
360
360
360
240
360
360
360
180
360
360
360
360
360
360
360
360
360
360

4
4
4
2
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
5
3
3
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

360
360
360
180
360
360
360
360
360
360
360
720
360
360
360
360
360
360
360
360
360
360
360

