Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 15, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2008
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Absent:

***
Vice-Chair Martinez, Secretary McMullen; Second Vice
Chair Busck and Chair Kemp (via phone); Directors
Chacon, and Daly
Director Tayer

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue, Bruce Abel (later)

Others Present:

Dennis Donald and John Huyler (Osprey Group)

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:05 p.m.

Board Members Present:

I.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella provided an overview of the items which appear on the
unanimous consent and recommended action agenda.


Unanimous Consent
 Approval for Release of the Denver Union Station Final
Environmental Impact Statement and Master Plan Supplement
for Public Comment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to release
the Denver Union Station (DUS) Final Environmental Impact
Statement (Final EIS) for public and agency review and that the
Board approve the partner agencies’ Denver Union Station
Master Plan Supplement. Completion of the DUS Final EIS is
the one of the last
In the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and
means that the agencies are requesting official public and
agency comment and feedback on the No Action and the Build
Alternative and their impacts and proposed mitigation.


Disposition of Excess Land Adjacent to Alameda & Havana
park-n-Ride

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the proposed Disposition
Plan for excess land for the 2.3497 acre RTD owned property
adjacent to the Alameda and Havana park-n-Ride, known as Lot
1, Aurora Highline Subdivision Filing No. 4, Aurora, Colorado,
and further authorize the General Manager or his designee to
request, receive, and evaluate proposals for the sale of said
property.


Approval of Contract Amendment with URS for Engineering
Work and Development of a Design-Build Request for Proposals
for the Bus Maintenance Facility
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the contract with URS for the Northwest Rail
Environmental Evaluation (EE) and Preliminary Engineering (PE)
that includes the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility. This
work is a direct impact of the preferred alternative refinement
process for the (CRMF) that is planned to displace the current
bus facility at Platte. The scope of work will also include the
preparation of a design-build Request for Proposals for building
the new Bus Maintenance Facility. The cost of this amendment
is $2,000,000 and will bring the total contract with URS to
$9,742,882. Funding for this Bus Maintenance Facility project
was approved for inclusion in the FasTracks 2008 Budget by
the Board in April 2008.



Approval for Release of the Gold Line Draft Environmental
Impact Statement for Public Comment
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manage to
release the Gold Line Draft Environmental Impact Statement
(DEIS) for public and agency review. This is the first of a series
of steps in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process
and means simply that the agencies are requesting official public
and agency comment and feedback on the Bo Action and
Preferred Alternative and their impacts.



TripPlanner On-Call Support Services
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to award a contract in the amount of
$100,000 for Personal Services of TripPlanner One-Call Support
Services. The contract is to be awarded to Object Designs, LLC
as a sole source vendor. The sole source vendor was selected a
competitive bid and award of general Forte support services
contract that proved insufficient in support of the TripPlanner
application. The TripPlanner application was off-line for 10 days

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5
in January 2008 and required an emergency contract engagement
with Object Designs, LLC. This has been determined to be a
personal service contract by RTD Legal.
The contract allows for an initial year plus one additional one-year
option to renew based on positive performance by the vendor.
The annual limit is not to exceed $100,000. The second year
option is to begin on January 1, 2009 and remain in effect for one
year until December 31, 2009.




Database Administration Operational Systems Support
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to initiate the second-year contract
option with Dataman USA for time and materials Oracle DBA
support contract was originally awarded on July 1, 2007 through
the competitive bid process. Within the contract, Article 6.0,
allows for an initial year plus three one-year options to renew
based on positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit is
not to exceed $160,000. The second year option is to begin on
July 1, 2008 and remain in effect for 365 calendar days until
June 31, 2009. The Board is being asked to approve this
contract because Legal has determined it to be a personal services
contract.

Recommended Action
 Increase Funding for Laidlaw “Group 15” Fixed Route Contract
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to amend the Laidlaw “Group 15”
fixed-route contract to cover increased costs incurred due to
service level increases and increased fuel costs over the term of
the contract:





Group 15 – add $13,270,000.00 to increase the amount
authorized from $99,250,564.00 as approved by the
Board of Directors on November 14, 2006, to a revised
contract authority amount of $112,520,564.00.



Group 16 – add $4,810,000.00 to increase the amount
authorized from $58,591,878.00 as approved by the
Board of Directors on November 14, 2006, to a revised
contract authority amount of $63,401,878.00.

Increase Funding for Veolia “Group 16” Fixed Route Contract
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to amend the Veolia “Group 16” fixedroute contract to cover increased costs associated with service
level increases and increases in fuel costs over the term of the
contract:


August 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve moving the
proposed August 17, 2008 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to
public review and comment.
Chair Kemp asked for a brief explanation of the new poor
performing routes which had been added by staff for changes that
are under consideration. Paula Perdue reviewed the list that she
had written down from the Operations/Customer Service meeting.



RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2008 CONCERNING THE SALE
OF PROPERTY ACQUIRED BY THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT FROM THE UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD
Director McMullen queried about the timing of the sale related to
if the original owners of the property elect not to buy back the
property and RTD sells the property.



Real Estate Negotiations- Acquisition of Property for Broomfield
Transit Facility (from Executive Session)
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
move the May Board agenda to the full
Board meeting on May 20 th.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

II.

The motion passed 4 in favor and
against.

0

May Board Retreat Agenda
Chair Kemp briefed the committee on the current status and concerns for
the scheduled Board retreat. He emphasized that given the current
concerns around the budget and the projected shortfalls due to increased
fuel costs and reduced sales revenue, he thinks the primary focus must be
on the 2009 budget. The Board will also consider policy implications that
may affect the short term 2009 budget but more long term policy issues

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5
will be identified and a timeline developed for addressing these issues in a
timely but later retreat/s.
Several of the other Board members agreed that the primary focus must be
on addressing the budgetary process and priorities for 2009.
Dennis Donald, The Osprey Group who will be facilitating the retreat,
shared the approach he proposes to the retreat. In the next few days, he
plans to provide an electronic survey asking the Board members to identify
and rank their priorities for this retreat in the context of the Board
Budgetary approach that had been provided by staff.
Director Martinez emphasized the importance of identifying a timeline from
this meeting when the other policy issues would be addressed.
Director Busck challenged the staff to follow the concept of KISS due to
the differing level of knowledge such that everyone could fully understand
the issues. Director Chacon added that the Board members must exercise
some form of self control to stay on task and focused.
Chair Kemp indicated he would draft a letter to the Board members
outlining the basic goals and expectations for this retreat and how
followup items would be addressed.
Dennis Donald, Cal Marsella and Lee Kemp will work the details for the
Board agenda.
III.

Hosting APTA Conference in Denver
Cal Marsella shared that Denver has been provided the opportunity to host
the 2013 APTA conference. He outlined what he saw as the upside and
downside of this quoting a major concern that this will be in the midst of
the FasTracks implementation and could draw valuable resources away
from FasTracks. The Board Members discussed and agreed that while this
may be a great opportunity to showcase, the timing is inappropriate and
would send the wrong message.
The Committee recommended to defer this opportunity until 2017 when
the next conference featuring the equipment display would occur. Chair
Kemp would send communications to the rest of the Board members on
this issue.

VI.

Other Matters

VII.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

