2023-06-27
Board Meeting Part 2
LYNN GUISSINGER: For the longer wait. We are at item 12, the Finance and Planning Committee report.
Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have anything to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The minutes are in your packet. We hope you will
approve them. And our next meeting is on July 11. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Operations and Safety Committee report, Committee Chair Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, we met on June 7. We had a safety performance review that was very informative.
And you can find that information on the website in the meeting information. We also had Carl Greene
and Gabe Christie give a great report on bus stops and customer amenities.
And that's about it. We're going to meet next on Wednesday, July 12, at the same time and the same
location.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Committee Chair Davidson, are you still there?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Apologies that I can't be with you via video. The
Performance Committee met twice in June, once on June 5. We unanimously passed the recommended
action on tonight's agenda for the customer surveys contract with ETC Institute, not to exceed $984,550
for five years. That's three base years with two option years.
That same meeting, the committee also received a helpful and thorough presentation from RTD Chief
People Officer Charlene Pileggi. Ms. Pileggi walked the committee through an overview of the concept of
a compensation philosophy and discussed considerations, factors, types, components, and samples of
various philosophies. This included a discussion on pros and cons of various approaches. We also took a
look at the Gallagher report and those areas in the General Manager and CEO compensation analysis
that were found to be lagging, matching, and leading the market. The compensation-- or, I'm sorry, the
Performance Committee then agreed to take the presentation into consideration for further discussion at
future meetings.
We again met on June 26. The majority of that second meeting was spent in executive session for
consideration of personnel matters regarding compensation performance appraisal and employment
agreement with General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson.
What we're doing now is weighing the inputs and discussions we have had throughout the month of June
to then meet again on July 17, 2023. At this meeting, the committee will consider recommending a
compensation philosophy to the Board of Directors. Committee members have shared feedback
regarding important considerations to weigh in the creation of a compensation philosophy. And we
encourage other Board members to please reach out to us on the committee, as well as to the Board
Office, to share any ideas and priorities they have.

At our July 17, 2023, meeting, which will take place at 8:30 AM, we will also be discussing improvements
to the performance evaluation process. Thank you, Madam Chair. That concludes my report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Davidson. Let's see. I believe that is all of our committee
reports. The Board and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. I'd like to note that the
June 26 Performance Committee minutes were not included in the packet, as that meeting occurred after
the packet was published. But they will be included in the July packet for approval. Are there any
corrections to any of the minutes?
Unless there's objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion to
approve the minutes for the following meetings, May 31, 2023 Board meeting, June 5, 2023 Performance
Committee meeting, June 6, 2023 Finance and Planning Committee, June 7, 2023 Operations and Safety
Committee, June 22, 2023 Executive Committee. Is there a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe I heard Director Tisdale as the movement, and Director Broom as the
second. Is there any discussion on this motion? All right, I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on
this action?
And I forgot to mention that Director Ruscha has joined us some time ago. So we now have 14 Board
members here. With 14 yes votes, we have-- and 0-- and I'm sorry? Oh.
AUDIENCE: We have 12.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have 12 people here voting now. With 12 yes votes and 0 no votes and 3
non-present, 2 of whom are just coming back in, the motion passes.
All right, the Chair's report. I have-- just I want to update you on several matters we're working on or
discussed at the Executive Committee and that are going on. First, I want to give a big welcome to Jack
Kroll. Jack comes to us as a former Chair of the CU Board of Regents. And I can say even in his first
three weeks, he's been a big help, brings a lot of wealth of knowledge and energy to the job. Jack, would
you like to take a minute or two to address the Board?
JACK KROLL: Sure. I don't know if the microphone is working here, but I learned how to project some
time ago. It's truly an honor to be here. This is the opportunity of a lifetime to continue my passion for
public service.
I have a lot of love and compassion for elected boards. I've been through what you've experienced. I
hope to bring a lot to the table to help this Board and the important mission it serves to use for [? rest. ?]
I want to give a huge shout-out to the Board office staff, especially Tai-Shrae, for all of the work they've
done-[APPLAUSE]
And if you haven't heard from me already, I'll be reaching out to set up some time to meet each of the
directors. Thank you so much.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I see you're waiting to speak. Is that after the Chair's report, Director
Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I want to speak to the fact that we all want to say congratulations to the Chair
before she gives her report on her recent wedding.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. I appreciate it. Yeah.
[APPLAUSE]
Thanks. All right, well, I have a second celebration that is maybe not quite as big for me. But the
Department of Transportation approved the full $25 million requested for completion of Highway 119
project. Boulder County led on the application with strong support from RTD, CDOT, and others.
It will include bus queue jumps, safety improvements at intersections, and other improvements to reduce
travel times. And the $25 million essentially completes the funding needed for the project. So thank you
all.
Let's see. We've had a question come up about how Director requests for documents should be handled.
In the past, for larger requests and documents, the Board Office would file a CORA request to make it
easier to track.
And this came up. I think there was a bit of a misunderstanding that the Director needed to file a CORA
request. That wasn't what was happening. The Board Office would do that. And I worked with Jack Kroll
and Melanie Snyder on this issue. And what I can say is, everyone's committed to getting directors the
information requested as quickly as possible. And Ms. Snyder and Mr. Kroll are working through the best
way to manage that.
At this point, a related issue that's come up a number of times now is around Director requests for
information from staff. And as Chair, I've been working with others here to make sure we have some
processes in place to get Directors the information they need while still being respectful of staff's time and
bandwidth. Staff have work plans, KPIs, and a lot to do to achieve our mission of providing transit to the
region. You've heard some of the challenges that we're dealing with tonight.
So when requests are sent to various people in the agency or a number of times, they can cause a lot of
extra work and some consternation. So we have several suggestions. One of them is that now that we
have our Board office fully staffed, we're requesting that all correspondence and requests go to the Board
office. Jack Kroll and our great Board team will handle those requests. And we'll be certain to respond or
include you in the response if your request is from a constituent, and you would like to be included.
That said, our Board team is also busy. So I'm asking you to be respectful in choosing your requests. We
expect in the near future to begin reviewing the Board operating guidelines, because they require that we
review them annually, and we need to get on that. I think we're a little behind.
There are also two resolutions that discuss the amount of time-- staff time a Director should require. And
these may be part of that review. These were from prior years.
Second step that we're taking, the Board office has a list of several remaining topics for onboarding of
new Board members. And I've asked the Board team to schedule those. I think the first one has been

scheduled at this point for Finance. That schedule will go out to everyone, so it will be a place where you
can take your questions. And all of you are welcome if you want to dive in on a particular topic.
And thirdly, Jack Kroll has brought a good suggestion, which is that we set work plans for the committees
at the beginning of the year, typically. And it would not be at the beginning of the year now, but might be.
Since we're not changing any of our Board members next year, it might be something we look at for the
next 18 months. And obviously, there would be additions to these. But staff knows the order and timing of
a lot of things-- the budget, the mid-term financial plan, a number of other things that would be coming to
the Board.
And so what I'm hoping is that the Executive Committee, the chairs of the Standing Committees, and our
GM CEO and Board staff can work together to start to form some committee work plans that they would
take to those committees and to the Board. And it would give us a guide to the committees' work and, I
think, help us to more efficiently realize our goals-- for instance, some of our goals coming out of the
Board retreat. I think Finance and Planning is working on some of the diversifying of funds.
Another one we talked about was sustainability. There's a lot going on right now. But if we have a plan for
when we would be focusing on a sustainability plan or whatever it is we want to do, then it gives people
an idea of where to bring ideas.
So that's it for me today. I'm happy to answer any questions or listen to feedback now, or whenever it's
convenient for any of you.
AUDIENCE: Good job.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, thank you. [LAUGHS] OK. And now we have the GM CEO's report. Ms.
Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. And good evening, Chair Guissinger, members of the
Board, and to all that are assembled, both here in person and virtually. I'm Debra Johnson, RTD's
General Manager and CEO. And this evening, I will share with you the following information centered
around our strategic priorities.
Regarding community value, I will discuss meetings and events in which I have engaged since the last
Board meeting that was held on May 31, including a meeting with the General Manager of the Front
Range Passenger Rail District, a meeting in which I engaged with leadership, APTA participants
conducting research for their capstone project, a professional development seminar hosted by the San
Antonio chapter of WTS in which I served as a keynote speaker, my participation in the Northwest
Conference Amalgamated Transit Union.
Also in relation to community value, I will share information regarding both Denver City Council
Committee meeting and a meeting of the full City Council in which RTD-related matters were discussed.
Additionally, a meeting with business leaders representing the retail and restaurant locations in the
Denver Union Station historic building, as well as a meeting with Denver City Councilmember Elect
Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez, my participation in a state task force regarding transportation modernization.
Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss the Zero Fare for Better Air kickoff event at Denver Union
Station. And speaking to employee ownership, I will touch on staff's flexible response to the NBA Finals,
as well as the festivities following the Denver Nuggets championship victory earlier this month.

AUDIENCE: Woo-hoo.
[LAUGHTER]
DEBRA JOHNSON: Before I commence with the substance of my report, I will first take the opportunity to
address hiring statistics recently cited in a Denver Post article published on Sunday, June 25. The article
itself, as well as individual responses to this article garnered via social media, call into question the
veracity of hiring statistics reported by me to the Board during the January 2023 Board meeting.
The People Power figures I cited in my General Manager's report delivered during the January 2023
Board meeting accurately reflected the data available at the time through Workday, which serves as the
agency's human resource management system software platform.
Next month, during the Operations and Safety Committee meeting on July 12, Chief People Officer
Charlene Pileggi will be presenting an update regarding the agency's People Power, including hires,
separations, and vacancy rates for certain front-line positions. Should Directors have any further
questions on this matter, please do not hesitate in contacting me directly.
Moving on to my report as outlined with the strategic priorities, community value-- on Tuesday, June 6, I
met with Andy Karsian, the General Manager of the Front Range Passenger Rail District, to discuss
alignment around timelines relative to the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study and the Front
Range Passenger Rail Service Development Plan, as well as mutual presentations to our respective
boards that we anticipate taking place in the fall of this year.
On Friday, November-- excuse me. I don't know why I said November. Perhaps I'm tired. On Friday, June
9, I was invited to address the Northwest Conference of the Amalgamated Transit Union, which was held
in Denver. Twenty locals across the United States and Canada participated in the conference, in which
participants engaged in discussions and informal sessions regarding matters from federal safety rules,
workplace health, safety issues, and alternatively fueled vehicles.
During my remarks, I spoke about potential legislation to enhance front-line employee safety, the Joint
Labor Management Safety Committee and alignment with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, RTD's
collaboration with ATU to bolster the union pension plan, de-escalation training and the Employee
Experience Committee created at RTD to enable discussions regarding workplace and quality-of-life
matters, several of which you heard from public commenters this evening.
On Wednesday, June 14, I was interviewed by participants in the Leadership APTA program, whose
research project is focused on gentrification, specifically how transit responds to the geographically
changing needs of the community and what options are made available to them. In conducting their
research, the participants are working to identify effective policies and strategies the transit agencies can
implement to mitigate or address these effects and support the needs of those being displaced.
For those who may not be familiar with Leadership APTA, the American Public Transportation Association
offers this transit industry program to develop and support promising industry leaders. Over the years,
program alumni have made outstanding and visionary contributions to APTA, the industry, and their own
organizations and communities.
On Friday, June 16, I participated in a professional development seminar hosted by the San Antonio
chapter of the Women's Transportation Seminar, during which I presented a keynote address regarding

the importance of leaders cultivating a kitchen cabinet of trusted voices to serve as their sounding boards,
support networks, and advisors.
RTD was invited to participate in two Denver City Council-related meetings this month. The first was a
meeting of the Citizens' Council-- excuse me, the City Council's Business Arts Workforce and Aviation
Services Committee, commonly referred to as the BUS committee, on Wednesday, June 7, in which I was
invited to provide supplemental remarks following Denver International Airport CEO regarding creative
solutions and mitigating pain points for airport employees. During the meeting, the committee
unanimously approved the creation of a master intergovernmental agreement among concessionaires at
Denver International Airport, allowing RTD to establish a program to expand access to annual transit
passes for employees of airport businesses.
I also shared information with the committee regarding the Zero Fare for Better Air initiative and Respect
the Ride, as well as potential changes to the fare structure following the Board's consideration of the
system-wide fare study and equity analysis that will come before this body in July.
During the second meeting with the full Denver City Council on Tuesday, June 20, the Council adopted a
proclamation strongly supportive of RTD's proposed Zero Fare for Youth program. I addressed the
Council to provide parameters on how this program could be effectuated and Thank. Council Member
Amanda Sawyer, who sponsored the proclamation. Director Rosenthal and Government Relations Officer
Michael Davies were also in attendance. I am pleased to report that Council members spoke favorably of
the program and its potentially far-reaching impacts to families and young scholars throughout the greater
Denver area.
I would be remiss not to note that on Thursday, June 22, Federal Transit Administration officials approved
RTD's request to expand the pilot beyond the six-month period permitted under current federal
regulations to a 12-month period, which would run through the 2023-2024 school year and conclude
August 31, 2024. The Board will have an opportunity to consider the approval of the Zero Fare for Youth
program as part of the larger discussion surrounding the system-wide Fair City and Equity analysis during
the July meeting cycle.
Also in regard to proposed Zero Fare for Youth program, I received a letter of support on June 26 from
the RootED Denver nonprofit organization, which was mentioned in earlier comments this evening,
relative to it being part of the transcript. This correspondent stated that RootED is committed to ensuring
every child in Denver has the opportunity and support to achieve scholastic and career success. The
letter also states that the organization is optimistic that the Zero Fare for Youth program, if executed
properly, will address the current inequities of school transportation affecting public school students in the
Denver area.
On Monday, June 5, I and Dr. Joel Fitzgerald, Chief of Transit Police and Emergency Management, and
Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, met with representatives from City
Street Investors. The purpose of this meeting was to discuss ongoing efforts to restore and maintain a
welcoming transit environment at Denver Union Station and the surrounding area, as well as to discuss
how City Street could support RTD's efforts. For the Board's reference, City Street Investors are involved
in restaurant and retail development, including businesses located in the historic Denver Union Station
building.
On Thursday, June 8, I and Government Relations Officer Michael Davies met with Denver City
Councilmember Elect Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez for a wide-ranging discussion of agency programs and

initiatives, including the system-wide fare study and equity analysis, the expanded Zero Fare for Better Air
initiative, the proposed Zero Fare for Youth program, and Respect the Ride.
And just yesterday, I received a communique from the Commissioner of Education and the Colorado
Department of Education, who has appointed me as a member of the Colorado School of Transportation
Modernization Task Force as a representative for public transportation providers. The task force, which
was created by Senate Bill 2394, is being established to make findings and recommendations to improve
public school transportation. The task force will prepare, publish, and share its findings with the Education
Committees of the General Assembly, the Colorado State Board of Education, and the Governor by
December 1, 2024.
Regarding customer excellence, on Thursday, June 22, RTD hosted an event in the Train Hall at Denver
Union Station to officially announce the expansion of the 2023 Zero Fare for Better Air initiative. This
year's Zero Fare offering commences on Saturday, July 31, and runs through Monday, August 31.
Guest speakers included Governor Jared Polis, Senator Faith Winter, Representative Jennifer Bacon,
Lakewood Mayor and Chair of the Metro Mayors Caucus Adam Paul, Executive Director of the Colorado
Energy Office Will Toor, Kay Kelly from the Office of Innovation in the Colorado Department of
Transportation, and Denver Regional Council of Government Executive Director Doug Rex, two members
of the Executive Committee, First Chair Peggy Catlin, and Treasurer Dishell also were in attendance and
participated.
And lastly, in relation to the strategic priority of employer ownership, my thanks and deep appreciation to
all RTD employees who were able to quickly and deftly pivot to accommodate the service changes,
detours, and disruptions throughout Denver following the NBA Finals, culminating in the Denver Nuggets'
first NBA championship victory. My thanks also to RTD PD, who collaborated with Denver Police
Department to coordinate efforts to ensure there were minimal impacts to transit service delivery
throughout the Nuggets' final run and the ensuing championship celebrations.
Tens of thousands of Nuggets fans were able to attend the parade as well as the rally to commemorate
this historic occasion. And thanks to the front-line employees who truly make lives better through
connections. And with that, Madam Chair, I conclude my remarks, and I yield the floor. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Anybody have questions or comments for Ms. Johnson?
Dr. Rosenthal? Sorry.
[LAUGHTER]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson.
That was quite a long list of things that you have been working on. And I just have to commend you and
your entire team and all the staff and officers in this room and in RTD's organization for all the hard work,
the dedication, and sacrifice that you have.
I think in that long list, I'm not to point out-- reiterate all of them. But I think there are some things that
need to be repeated, because they are tremendous, big successes, and much as we have issues that
we're working on that are difficult.
For example, the two months of Zero Fare for Better Air, and that is huge. Your office, yourself, everyone
in the organization, working with the legislature and the Governor's office on that. The Zero Fare for
Youth, that is also tremendous. That is a lot of conversations nationally, with federal government.

But I think bringing it a little bit more down to earth, too, is the RTD passes for the small business at
Denver International Airport. That is something that has been worked on, proposed, thought about,
discussed. Then it was like, oh, what are we doing again? And you-- actually, you and your team working
with the airport, working with those concessionaires, making sure that those workers who serve so well at
the airport, make sure that they have cheaper fares for their passes, but also the small businesses that
struggle to purchase those passes.
And that is your office that did that. So I think kudos to you, to your staff, to everybody here at RTD for
doing that. I know sometimes maybe you're buffeted by forces in our country and our community. And
that is difficult, and certainly sometimes, maybe even some on the Board. And I'm sorry if even myself
sometime, if I've annoyed you or what have you. But I think-- I just want you to know you're appreciated,
and thank you for your work.
[APPLAUSE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you very much, Director Rosenthal,
for your comments. I know this was a big issue for you as it related to Denver International Airport. But
trust and believe, it was a group of people working on this-- Michael Davies working with staff at the
airport Theresa Rinker with our sales program. And I know I'm leaving out other people as well.
But trust and believe, our team works hard, and they just need to be supportive. And I am their staunch
champion. And so that gives me great pride to sit here before you and to be able to say that because
oftentimes, they don't feel supported, as you heard this evening. So thank you very much for taking the
time to acknowledge their work. And on behalf of all of them, I say thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Dr. Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I just want to concur with regard to the EcoPasses for the Denver Airport
workers. The article in the paper made it sound like it was all Denver Airport that scored the big win. They
didn't do it alone. And I know, as Director Rosenthal has just stated, that you and your team were the
impetus behind that. Thanks again for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Item 18 on our agenda is unanimous consent agenda. There's one item
tonight listed. On that item is the Community Value and Customer Excellence Surveys Contract Award,
for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a
contract with ETC Institute for the provision of community and customer surveys. The contract is for three
base years, with two additional one-year options exercisable at RTD's discretion.
The total not-to-exceed cost for all five years would be $984,550. If anyone has a change or has
questions on this item, please feel free to advise me at this time. And I will, of course, be happy to pull it
from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration as a recommended action.
Seeing no one, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Broom as the movement and Director Williams as the second. Are
there any no votes on this action? With 14 yes votes and 0 no votes and 0 abstentions and one person
absent, the motion passes.
There are three recommended actions on the agenda tonight, listed in section 19 A, B, C, and D-- no,
excuse me, B, C, and D. If the Board would indulge me, I'd like to move the current item C, the State
Lobbying Services Contract Amendment up so that it is the new item B, since we have other items that
will probably take a lot longer. Any objections?
OK. The first action is B, the State Lobbying Services Contract Amendment for the Board of Directors to
authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute an amendment to exercise the two
one-year options to extend the current State Lobbying Services Contract with Brandeberry McKenna
Public Affairs through July 27, 2025, for a total cost not to exceed $250,000. Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek is the movement and Director Williams is the second. Mr. Davies,
did you have a brief presentation, or you just want to take questions if there are any?
MR. DAVIES: Yeah, I have no formal presentation. I'm just happy to take any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, are there any questions or comment, any discussion on this motion? Director
Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I'm excited to see this. And hopefully, this will be approved.
BBMK has been there for us, has saved our bacon many times, talked many a legislator off the cliff, and
has really helped us move our agenda forward. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that that is the case. And I think you would support that, too, wouldn't you,
Mr. Davies?
MR. DAVIES: Absolutely.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Great presentation for tonight.
[LAUGHTER]
So all right, are there any no votes on this motion? I assume you're under Director Buzek. All right. With
14 yes votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions, the motion passes.
All right. Before we get into our second action for the code of conduct, we need to take another fiveminute break, please. We will keep this one to five minutes. And then we will move forward. Thanks. We'll
be back at 8:01.

