Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 18, 2007
Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

December 20, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, December 18, 2007, at 3:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bill Elfenbein, Vice-Chair; Noel Busck, Bruce
Daly, Lee Kemp, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Sherry Ellebracht, Scott Reed

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry (via teleconference)
****
Chair Pulliam called the meeting to order at 3:10 p.m.

Call to Order:
I.

State Legislative Issues –


Transit Oriented Development (TOD) bill – The Denver Chamber will not
sponsor this bill. After discussions with the District’s lobbyists, it was
decided that given the issues with property acquisition on the West Corridor,
this is not the time to pursue this bill.
Cal Marsella gave more background on this bill. Currently the bill says we
can do Transit Oriented Development at transfer stations, but only
commercial and retail. The District cannot do residential development,
whereas this bill would have allowed for residential development as well.
Not having the residential language could affect the proposed development at
University Station.
Director Elfenbein asked if the District owns property and a developer wants
to buy it and do residential, we won’t sell it to them? Marla Lien responded
that we can sell the property and the developer can do whatever it wants
with the property (as long as it meets zoning guidelines) once the District
sells it.



Private Activity Bond (PAB) bill – The Committee has not discussed this bill
before. SAFETEA-LU authorizes Private Activity Bonds for projects receiving
Title 23 money. The District’s bond counsel does not think the District is
authorized to issue Private Activity Bonds, so the District is looking to get

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 18, 2007
Page 2 of 2
statutory authority to be a conduit for these bonds. Chair Pulliam related
that this was a topic of discussion at the Bond Broker conference he
attended in Arizona in October.
This bill would be a brand new section to the RTD Act. Chair Pulliam asked
who would carry the bill. Jenifer Brandeberry said she was waiting for Board
direction before finding a sponsor. The committee gave approval to pursue
this legislation.


Salary increase for RTD Directors – This bill is going forward. Senator Veiga
is the sponsor in the Senate.



Issue regarding status of abandoned railroad right-of-way – Marla Lien said
this bill is designed for the District to buy railroad right–of-way if it is not
necessary for freight service. It is important for the right-of-way to continue
its designation as a public highway to avoid having the right-of-way revert to
a municipality. This issue was brought up at the last Committee meeting,
and Jennifer Brandeberry is planning on meeting with the Colorado Municipal
League to make sure there aren’t any problems with the bill.
Ms.
Brandeberry requested that Marla Lien follow up with the railroads and make
sure there is no opposition from them.



“RTD FasTracks Reporting Requirements” draft bill (Rep. Spencer Swalm) Chair Pulliam spoke to this bill. The reporting requirements that Rep. Swalm
is requesting are already covered in the annual report to DRCOG. The
recommendation is not to oppose the bill as long as it is amended to fit the
timetable that the District currently reports. (Sherry Ellebracht distributed the
draft bill and the resolution that DRCOG passed concerning the reporting
requirements.) Director Ruchman expressed concern about this bill. The
Committee’s consensus was to not oppose the bill if the sponsor will change
the dates required for the reporting and have them coincide with the DRCOG
reporting requirements.

II. Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.
III. Date for Next Meeting – The next meeting date is to be determined at a later date.
IV. Adjournment - Chair Pulliam adjourned the meeting at 3:50 p.m.

