1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Barry Gore, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
August 28, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fifteen (15) Board Members were present.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees available for the meeting. However, Chair Kemp expressed
appreciation to Malcolm Montoya for his 28 years of service to RTD.
Special Recognition-VeoliaTransportation
Director Malpiede introduced Larry Martinez and Todd Clough from the Denver Inner City
Parish who read a letter of appreciation to Veolia Transportation Services for their
contribution and generous sub-lease of facilities to the Denver Food Exchange Network
(F.E.R.N.). A copy of that letter is available in the minutes notebook located in the Board
office.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

George Gerstle, Boulder County Transportation Planner, read a letter on behalf of
Mayor Bob Muckle for the US 36 Mayors & Commissioners Coalition (MCC).This letter
expressed some concerns with the FasTracks Plan to be presented to DRCOG and the
growing backlash and frustration of the Northwest corridor community. A copy of this
letter can be found in the Board minutes notebook located in the Board office.


Honorable Mayor Nancy McNally, chair of the NATA group, read statements
referencing the DRCOG Board approved resolution and a call for regional equity. She indicated
that extending the North Metro to 72nd street is critical and needs to occur by 2018, not later
as indicated in the DRCOG RTP Amendment. A copy of the statement read by Mayor McNally,
along with the letter from the NATA group is located in the Board minutes notebook in the

Board office.


Dennis McCloskey, chair of the DRCOG Board, spoke about the recently approved
resolution by the DRCOG Board. In particular, he referenced the last five comments from this
resolution which calls for a collaborative, regional process for giving recognition of regional
equity in prioritizing of corridors. He provided an example of how regional input could be
incorporated and encouraged RTD to consider an approach that would include the metro wide
area in the process.


Karen Stuart, Executive Director for NATA, indicated that as a former Mayor for the
City of Broomfield, she had actively participated in number of elected official meetings. She
referenced a position paper from 2003 and also talked about the Mayors Caucus support this
group had provided for FasTracks. She petitioned RTD to be consistent to what was promised
in these papers and to add regional equity to our guiding principles.

Randy Hurwitz, citizen of Thornton expressed his concerns over a perceived lack of
fairness. He keeps hearing about the lines completed, about to be completed and even the
new extensions. However, traffic in the North continues to be bad and just a traffic jam. The
demographic changes and growths will make the northwest undesirable to live. There needs to
be a stronger voice for the North and Northwest lines. This borders on taxation without
representation.


Gene Putman, transportation planner, talked about how hard he worked to get
FasTracks passed. He even developed a model railroad to show citizens what is needed
to get access across the I-25 congestion. He has worked for the city of Thornton for 27
years. He believes this is a sad day when RTD and the Board have lost focus and put a
damper on all the positive work that was done with the voters in 2004. It is
inconceivable that they will have to wait until 2044 to see any trains, which is 40 years
after the approval of FasTracks. These are empty promises. He is wearing his T-shirt
today which states, “we want to be railroaded and on the back says we want services,
not more promises.” RTD has lost the people in the North. They do not trust.



John Harney, President of University of Colorado Hospital, offered his support for the
I-225 corridor. He shared some of the statistics from the university on the number of
employees, inpatient care, regional users and that they serve a large number of medically
uninsured. He also spoke to some of the growth plans that include a new patient tower
next year and anticipated growth beyond this.



David Rothenburger spoke about the West corridor. He stated that RTD is a bus
company and is now a landowner. As such, there are several inches of weeds growing
along the corridor that are not being taken care of. He had to make several calls before
anyone came to cut down the weeds. There is also graffiti. He stated he called the
Lakewood police as well. It still took quite a bit of time to cleanup. He wants RTD to
look at how we can do a better job of maintaining that property.



Ron Mitchell spoke about three-quarters of the metro area having light rail access. The
north is left out in the cold. The north is paying their fair share of taxes but they are not

Santa Claus. Amenities and development such as TOD follows transit and the north is
getting left out of this opportunity. They are not receiving anything for their monetary
contribution. The Board needs to relook at how the money is being spent and get the
north line to 72nd.
Chair Kemp thanked all the speakers for their participation. He indicated that the Board has
received several letters from elected officials and others on this issue. The Board appreciates
the level of engagement from the community in the process.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Bagley shared
that the committee had met today. They are continuing to work on a future contract for
the General Manager. They hope to bring this to the full Board on September 18 for
approval. The process is moving forward well.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JULY 17, 2012
MOTION:

Director Anderson moved for the
adoption of the July 17, 2012 Regular
Board Meeting Minutes as written and
circulated.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler and Malpiede had stepped
outside the room.

Chair Kemp declared the motion

PASSED Unanimously.
VIII.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JULY 24, 2012
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved for the
adoption of the July 24, 2012 Special
Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler and Malpiede had stepped
outside the room.

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF AUGUST 7, 2012
MOTION:

Director Gore moved for the adoption of
the August 7, 2012 Special Board
Meeting Minutes.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler and Malpiede had stepped
outside the room.

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

X.

CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Kemp provided these updates:
 Board members, Bagley, Daly and Tobiassen attended the light rail roadeo on August
18th. This was a great event.
 Board members Chair Kemp, Directors Bagley, Hoy and Tayer attended the National
Bus Rapid Transit conference in Las Vegas. They got to see various modes of BRT
and talk with other properties about their decision making process to select BRT. This
was a very informative and good conference.
 Several members of the Board attended the DIA Building Denver’s Future event which
was hosted by DIA. In attendance were Directors Anderson, Bagley, Hoy, James and




XI.

McMullen. Director Tayer spoke on behalf of RTD.
August 29 there are a couple of Northwest Rail open houses which will be attended
by Director Anderson and Hoy.
There is also a US 36 reception with CDOT planned for August 29th. Director Tayer
will be in attendance.
The RTD Board will host a candidate briefing on August 29th with all the new
candidates running for the Board of Directors.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
General Manager Washington requested a few moments as he delivered these statements
related to FasTracks Moving Forward:
The DRCOG RTP amendment is basically our Annual Program Evaluation (APE) which
is done annually. This is a snapshot in time. This amendment was required because of
the decision not to go to the ballot in 2012. The reasons why we list schedules is
because we have no assumption for future sales tax vote. We have to list projects that
our current finances will support. The RTP amendment to be voted on is an interim
placement for the next 12-18 months while RTD collaborates with our stakeholders for
the full SB Report. We believe we will complete some of these projects sooner than what
is stated in the Amendment; however, we have to provide fiscally responsible projects.
The Southeast corridor extension has created a firestorm as though the Board has
already made commitments. No commitments have been made. In late 2009, RTD pulled
off one of the most successful procurement in history with the landing of the Eagle P3.
We also came in at $305 below our budget of which $90M was allocated to North Metro,
an additional $90M to the already $30M committed to the US 36, $90M to the I-225,
and $17M to the end of line to Longmont. In late 2010, 2 additional corridors emerged
as candidates for Federal grant-Southeast extension and North Metro. The question
became do we get into the Federal queue now or later? We would not have to commit
funds until 18+ months later. He spoke to the SEBP and they responded that they would
look for money. They were also in agreement that this extension would not be a
deterrent to any further investment to the North corridor. Any financial contribution
would not require payback before the north corridor.
Relative to the comments around how much money the counties have contributed to
FasTracks, the newspaper article had quoted $243M collected in Adams, Broomfield and
Boulder Counties; however, the newspaper neglected to mention that RTD has already
spent $1.033B in these counties todate. FasTracks is a fluid, dynamic program with
regional benefits. We remain committed to the full buildout of FasTracks and we believe
we will get there sooner than later.
RTD believes the resolution hinders our ability to partner with the private sector. It
hinders our ability to leverage with the private sector and our Federal funded partners.
This is not good public policy and staff does not recommend.
The Northwest Corridor mobility study was brought to the staff. We looked at it and
we agreed with it. We added more scope to make this more robust and encouraged cost
sharing. Our reason is so our stakeholders would have skin in the game. We have noted
in the past where without any monetary investment or skin in the games, people have
reacted in a handoff fashion. If our friends in the North agree to the process and scope,
staff will recommend that RTD pays for the study in its entirety.
RTD will be playing long ball—We are looking into the FasTracks plan to identify any
cost savings or how we can legitimately seize dollars. Over the next 60 days we will look
at things such as asset review of all of our parcels, lifecycle costing for capital projects,
evaluate the use of the 1% that FasTracks allocates to bus service increases caused by

FasTracks, etc. Should we defer these increases to do more on the capital side? What
are the most cost effective options we can do to get to 72nd as soon as possible?
We will also bring back more information on the enabling work for north metro. We
will evaluate all the RTD operations on both bus and rail. Can we ask for more than the
2-1/2 percent from local municipalities? Some of the local municipalities have already
committed to more. We do not want to lose the flexibility for doing extensions should the
money be right. We are also looking at the possibility of creating internal savings
account. We are building a risk allocation matrix which is designed to look at various
options in FasTracks and base and assign a level of risk (financial and political risk).
Example, the current Board policy requires a 90 days reserve. What risks will this pose if
we changed to a 60-day reserve? These are decisions the Board will need to decide on
and the level of risks we are willing to incur.
RTD is committed to the full buildout of the FasTracks project. We discourage approval
of the NATA resolution.
Questions and Answers from the Board:
Director Hoy: I would like to reiterate that in the plans, I do not see anything that will put
the Southeast extensions ahead of the north metro line. Is this correct? General Manager
Washington responded this is correct.
Director McMullen: His understanding pertaining to New Starts is that LoneTree qualifies
under New Starts. The North Metro may possibly qualify once we reach 72 nd.
Director Anderson: She wants to understand the fiscally constraint DRCOG plan. Her
understanding is we could not add anything to our plan that could not be financially
supported, right. General Manager Washington responded that we are complying with the
fiscally constraint DRCOG Plan.
Director Gore: What prompted us to do all these heroics services now? General Manager
Washington responded this has always been an ongoing, continuous process. We are in a
different world. The world has changed. We have new game changers that impact how
we do business and a lot of this is market driven.
Director McMullen: Where is Southwest and Central in this mix? General Manager
Washington responded we are doing a study in Central. There is approximately $450K
left to complete this study. In the Southwest, we have allocated dollars. He will provide
the amount and timeline to Director McMullen.



XII.

FTA Procurement Audit
RTD participated in the FTA quarterly procurement audit last week and did quite well.
Only one deficiency was noted.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A and B on the unanimous consent.
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

Director Anderson made the motion to
approve item A&B on the unanimous
consent agenda.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.
.
Director Gore asked to have Item B,
Request for authorization to submit to

DRCOG an amendment to the 2035
Regional Transportation Plan.
This item was moved to recommended
action.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote on Item A,
authorization of Fiscal Authority to the
General Manager for the I-225 Rail Line
Project was taken with 15 votes in favor
and 0 against.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.
A.

XIII.

Authorization of Fiscal Authority to the General Manager for the I-225 Rail Line
Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors (“Board”) pass the attached Resolution Number __, Series 2012, to provide
the General Manager or designee with authority to enter into all contracts, real
property transactions and intergovernmental agreements for the I-225 Rail Line
Project in the amount not to exceed the remaining project budget of $605.3 million,
and to amend the project to accept third party contributions without further board
approval. This authority shall include the ability to negotiate and execute all contracts;
work orders; change orders and contract modifications; agreements for the acquisition
and conveyance of property interests; and intergovernmental agreements that are
necessary or advisable to complete the I-225 Rail Line within the scope of the I-225
Project budget and to accept grants or other contributions and to increase the project
budget in the amount of third-party contributions for project work.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
B.

Request for authorization to submit to DRCOG an amendment to the 2035
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize submittal of an amendment to the 2035 Regional
Transportation Plan (RTP), including a supporting financial plan, to the Denver
Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) in August, 2012. Because the RTD
Board of Directors decided not to pursue a sales and use tax election in 2012,
an amendment to the RTP is necessary to meet the federal requirement that the
RTP be “fiscally constrained.” Not having a “fiscally constrained” RTP could
negatively impact federal funding for transportation projects throu ghout the
region.
The financial plan for the RTP amendment assumes no additional sales and use
tax will be available to fund the FasTracks program prior to 2035. Projects
included in the amendment are consistent with the FasTracks Guiding Principles
and were selected because they represent current commitments of program

funds, or they are strong candidates for leveraging public/private funds and/or
receiving federal grants. The projects included in the financial plan include:














West Rail Line: Complete 2013
Denver Union Station: Complete 2015
I-225: Complete 2016
Eagle Project: Complete 2016
o East Rail Line to DIA
o Gold Rail Line to Adams County, Arvada and Wheat Ridge
o Northwest Rail Line to Westminster
Northwest Rail - Longmont Station: Complete 2015
Central Corridor Extension - Planning Study: Complete 2012/2013
Southwest Corridor Extension – UP Rail Line Relocation: Complete 2015
US 36 BRT:
o $120M for Managed Lanes to 88 th Street: 2012-2014
o Table Mesa Pedestrian Bridge: Complete 2012
o $15M for Managed Lanes to Table Mesa: 2014/2015
o Remaining RTD funding commitment available: 2030-2035
North Metro:
o Construction to National Western Stock Show: 2017
o Complete to 72 nd using local funds: 2030-2035
Southeast Corridor Extension: Complete assuming 50% federal gra nt
funding 2030-2035

The RTP Amendment represents a snapshot in time and can change in the
future as new opportunities arise. Since a full SB 208 Report will not be
developed until February 2014, the additional time will provide the RTD
Board, staff, and stakeholders the opportunity to work together to consider
the options and make collaborative decisions regarding the build out of the
full FasTracks Plan.
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the motion to
approve the request for authorization to
submit to DRCOG an amendment to the
2035 Regional Transportation Plan.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Gore expressed that the battle
cry of the North is service equity. The
test for that is when a train shows up in
the neighborhood. The North is asking
for the same access as other residents in
other corridors. The snapshot that is
being presented is an ugly picture for the
north. His appeal is that as a region, we
do not shatter the regionalism that
brought us FasTracks in the first place.
Director Anderson commented that she
believes we are already on FasTracks.
We cannot approve a plan that is not

fiscally constraint. This would hinder our
ability to go to the Federal government
for aid. The bottom line is there is not
enough money to do anything else but
what the staff has recommended. This is
a fiscally responsible proposal.
Director Tayer expressed that he share
the concerns from the North. He would
like to remind everyone that the decisions
that have been made now and in the past
were mostly unanimous decisions. The
RTP Amendment is a placeholder. The
money does not allow us to do anything
else.
Check the math. He is not
satisfied but will work hard to change
this for the future.
Director Hoy stated this is bittersweet.
The North area constituents do not have
a train. We have heard the challenge
from Dennis to think outside the box. He
also express the concern articulated by
Director Gore-it would have been nice to
have the information that the General
Manager provided tonight two months
ago. The focus has to be on equity of
service.
It is good to see the reevaluation of the real estate.
Director Tobiassen expressed that he
appreciates Director Gore’s comments.
He reiterated that all of Aurora, i.e.
Mayor Hogan, City Council, economic
development and stakeholders, are fully
committed to the full build-out of
FasTracks. We do not want to go into a
contest of “I got mine, you get yours.”
The battle cry should be on finding a
regional solution.
Director McMullen shared that 8 years
ago, TREX was under construction which
provided the SE line. Nevertheless, when
he had participated in an event to talk
about FasTracks, 68% of the people
voted in favor of FasTracks. That is
because they can see the benefit to have
full connectivity across the region. This
is how we will get the project done. We
cannot promise pie in the sky. We need

a reality check. This is a well thought
out document and he will support. It is
all about the money. No one Board
should tie the hands of the other.
Director Cohen echoed that we should
not tie the hands of any future Board.
He is committed to this project. About
two years ago, there was an article in the
Mass Transit from Rick Clarke that said if
we do not go out for a vote, things
would drastically change. There is a
relationship between DRCOG and RTD.
They will hold RTD accountable for what
we do. Deciding not to go to the voters
this year has changed things. It is a
timing issue. He will support this as a
placeholder to keep the process moving
ahead. We cannot be bullied. He is in
favor of mobility for the region and he
will support this amendment.
Director Malpiede commented on the
year 2004 when FasTracks passed and
she was a member of the CAC. This has
truly been an inclusive, collaborative and
transparent process. We are committed
to work together. We will continue to reevaluate new opportunities that constant
change will bring. RTD is a natural leader
for innovation and she will support the
RTP amendment.
Director Walker referenced his previous
work at CDOT. This is a snapshot of
what we have to work with today. He
will support the RTP amendment.
Director O’Boyle stated that he provided
strong support for FasTracks before it
became a plan. The Southeast has
always supported FasTracks for the
entire metro area. They are part of the
coalition. Collectively we will work hard
to make sure the full rollout of FasTracks
in this region.
Director Bagley reflected on the five
members who were elected to the Board
4 years ago. Since then we have been
hit with a tsunami of unbelievable

changes in the economy. All of the
Board members have spent numerous
hours with elected officials, etc. We
need to approve the amendment now and
take the remaining 14 months to shake
out other options and work with our
stakeholders.
Director James stated he is pleased with
the consistency of what everyone is
saying. He guarantees it will change next
year based on history and the market.
He will support this amendment.
Director Daly reiterated that staff is
mulling all of this over and constantly
looking for new alternatives. This is not
a snap decision.
He does not see
FasTracks in his district but the people
are very supportive. Regionalism is what
is needed.
Director Deadwyler expressed that she
has been listening very carefully. She
will vote in favor to move this
amendment forward but she wants to
assure the people in the north that we
will work very hard and diligently to look
for options.
Chair Kemp stated that he is a
representative of the North but he is also
the Chair of the Board. He has met with
all stakeholders, constituents and elected
officials. He cannot express strongly
enough that constituents across the
system are committed to a full system
build-out. It is about the money. We
need to use our money wisely so we can
leverage it to do the bigger good.
Approval of this amendment is essential
to moving forward.

VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with
14votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James,

Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker) and 1
against (Gore).
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

C.

Approval of Contract Award to AECOM for the final design of North Metro Rail Line
Segments 1 and 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve an eighteen -month
professional services contract award to AECOM to serve as the Final Civil
Engineering Design Contractor for the North Metro Rail Line, from Denver Union
Station (DUS) to 72 nd Avenue Station, for an amount not to exceed
$10,400,000 for the years 2012 through 2014. Funds for the award are
contained in the amended 2012 FasTracks Budget.
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the motion to
approve the contract award to AECOM.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

XIV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no executive session.

XV.

OLD BUSINESS
Director Anderson indicated she had attended 2 Gold Lines and P3 updates. They had a good
turnout in Wheatridge and great discussion. The people are supportive of a full build-out.

XVI.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp referenced the NATA Resolution. He deferred this to the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee meeting in September. He asked for a compare of this resolution to the Board
approved DRCOG action.
Director Hoy commented there is room for discussion on the DRCOG Resolution.

XVII.

ADJOURN

The meeting adjourned from executive session at 7:25 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:
___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING

Tuesday, August 28, 2012

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Barry Gore
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

District I
District O
District L
District H
District C
District M
District N
District B
District K
District J
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Sherry Ellebracht
Austin Jenkins
Doug MacLeod
John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Phil Washington

L. Skip Brown
David Genova
Erin Klaas
Paula Perdue
Bill Sirois
Pauletta Tonilas
Brian Welch

Susan Cohen
Mike Gil
Nadine Lee
Carla Perez
Henry Stopplecamp
Mike Turner
Susan Wood
Ron Enserro

Terry Howerter
Barbara McManus
Scott Reed
Stan Szabelak
Bill Van Meter
Pranaya Shrestha

Marta Sipeki

OTHERS PRESENT
Michelle Brier, Diana Buskirk, Mac Callison, David Center, D. Todd Clough, Jane Donovan, George Gerstle,
Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Randy Hurwitz, Terry Kraser, Larry Martinez, Dennis
McCloskey – Broomfield Council Member, Nancy McNally – Mayor of Westminster, Ron Mitchell, Bob Muckle
– Mayor of Louisville, Jessica Osborne, Seth Patterson, R.A. Plummer, Joni Prante, Gene Putman, Mike
Richardson, Laura Rinker, Rick Ronig, David Rothenburger, Jeanne Shreve, Julie Skeen, Karen Stuart, Chris
Taylor, Monte Whaley, Bob Wilson

