Mar 14 2019 1200 PM Executive Committee
SHELLY COOK: Shelley Cook is here.
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker is here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Doug Tisdale is here by telephone.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. And Director Rivera-Malpiede not joining us today, but we do
have a quorum.
The next item of business is the review of the March Board meeting agenda. The customary call
to order, followed by the Pledge of Allegiance, roll call, do we have any retiree awards?
JOHN MCKAY: Not this month.
PEGGY CATLIN: No retiree awards, so then that won't be-- public participation, and then our
committee reports. Is there anything special on any of the committees that you're aware of?
DAVE GENOVA: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is going to be a pretty quick meeting, I think. And then General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management update. Will there be anything on that from Director
Broom?
JOHN MCKAY: I have not heard anything.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
JOHN MCKAY: That was sort of deferred last month, and then the first meeting is not scheduled
to be for a while.
PEGGY CATLIN: Then it's likely that we won't have that. Approval of the Board meeting
minutes, the Chair's report. Chair Tisdale, will you be having a report, or something on the report
that you want to share with us?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. And nothing special, but typically what I do is at that point review
various activities or events that the Directors have attended and that I have attended, just to bring
it on to the record. That's all.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I just didn't know if there was anything else extraordinary. There have
been quite a few activities, the 50th anniversary and those types of things. OK. And then Dave,
General Manager's report? I'm sure you're going to have quite a bit to share, too.

DAVE GENOVA: We'll have quite a bit to update on. Nothing of particular issue for the
Executive Committee today, however, under other matters I'll just kind of give you a rundown of
the last 36 hours or so.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Under the unanimous consent agenda we will have the May 2019 service
changes, and then Board policy regarding reimbursement for sponsored events that we discussed
at the last committee meeting. Under recommended action, the revised Board expense policy and
the revised Board Bylaws. And then I don't believe there will be an Executive Session.
SHELLY COOK: Oh yes, there may be. [INAUDIBLE] here. It's about the DTP (Denver Transit
Partners) litigation if I recall.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
SHELLY COOK: I think that was in response to a request I had. At least that was the date he had
originally mentioned.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We'll need to follow up on that to see if that's-- OK, then old business
and new business and then adjournment. So are we all comfortable with the Board meeting
agenda? OK. I see nodding heads.
JEFF WALKER: Excuse me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK, so if we do have an Executive Session, doesn't it need to be noticed? It's
some number of days and I don't remember what that number is.
JOHN MCKAY: It's 24 hours in advance.
JEFF WALKER: Oh, just 24? OK, thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: So we'll find out from Rolf right after this meeting and get the-- and if, in
fact, he's ready to do it in his schedule, we'll get the proper citation there. We don't have our
Board meeting next week.
PEGGY CATLIN: No. The following week.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
So we've got plenty of time. We're off again on the schedule because of the-JEFF WALKER: We have a meeting next week-PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.

JEFF WALKER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Certainly.
DOUG TISDALE: The intention is that Rolf will have an update on and provide legal advice
relative to DTP and issues associated with those litigations for the benefit, principally, of the
Board members who have not previously heard an update from Rolf concerning that matter.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. The other item, I believe, that Director Lubow wanted to make some
amendments to the bylaws. Do you expect that would be on the agenda?
JOHN MCKAY: She wouldn't be able to.
PEGGY CATLIN: She wouldn't be able to. OK.
DAVE GENOVA: We require-- if I may, we require a 10-day notice, I believe, just to be
considered.
JEFF WALKER: OK. So unless she had brought it to this meeting, then, it-- OK. All right.
So now we move on to other matters.
JEFF WALKER: Approve.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I'm sorry.
JEFF WALKER: Your motion.
PEGGY CATLIN: I need a motion.
JEFF WALKER: Move to approve the minutes. Oh, I'm sorry, the agenda.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there a second?
SHELLY COOK: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: All in favor?
SEVERAL VOICES: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, it passes unanimously. All right, now on to other matters.

I don't have anything. Director Cook?
SHELLY COOK: Actually, I don't.
JEFF WALKER: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: Then I believe-DAVE GENOVA: OK, well-PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Genova, you're-DAVE GENOVA: Just to provide maybe a few more details and answer maybe any questions
that the Executive Committee may have. Yesterday was quite a challenging day for us. But I
really want to commend the entire RTD team for the service that we did deliver yesterday. I
think it was an outstanding effort by everyone. It takes everyone, from the operators and the
maintainers and the street supervisors and the crews that remove snow and people that are in the
telephone information center, the communications team.
I was engaged with our-- it was basically myself, Michael Ford, Dave Jensen, Mike Meader, and
Fred Worthen, and we basically were huddled all afternoon and into the evening. And in fact,
Fred, Mike Meader, and Dave ended up staying in a hotel room because they couldn't get home.
And we had a hard time finding a hotel room for them. But we made that decision about midafternoon yesterday because we knew we were going to be here way into the evening, not only
getting through the afternoon peak, but then also planning for what the morning pullout was
going to look like and what we were going to be able to do.
And then in the midst of everything we were doing, we had requests from the Colorado State
Office of Emergency Management. You may have seen on the news where they used Douglas
County schools to help them with some rescues on I-25. Well, they had reached out to us, and
they wanted us to help with that on I-25 and on I-70 and then also to gather homeless people
within the city and bring them to shelters. And we really tried to explain to them that all of our
resources and equipment were out doing our afternoon and evening peak. But they said, well,
you know, it's a state of emergency. We can order you to do these things. And so we said, OK.
But they said we'll get back to you, but then they never did call us back.
So after a couple of hours-- which is all well and good. I'm glad they found other resources,
because it's not really the kind of thing that we wanted to expose our operators to, and of course
we couldn't force them to do that work. And we actually had at least three operators park buses
yesterday near DIA (Denver International Airport) and say they were done, that the conditions
were just too dangerous and they didn't want to operate anymore. So incredibly challenging day.
The teams just responded incredibly well.
We had a lot of facility power outages. So we did not-- we had a power outage at the Mariposa
light rail facility, which is critical, because that's where the light rail control center is. So we
didn't have SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) for the system. We had a lot of

intermittent-- we didn't have any overhead power failures as far as light rail or commuter rail, but
there was a lot of intermittent power failures that feed, like the maintenance-of-way equipment
and the signal system. And so there were parts of the signal systems yesterday where we were in
dark territory, where we didn't have signals.
So the trains just operate on, basically, a stop and proceed when they come to the signals. And
they operate on, essentially, a line of sight. And so challenging day. Our private contractors at a
couple of facilities had power outages. They still have them today. They had to come to our
facilities to fuel their buses. We've had to order extra fuel. We've been able to accommodate all
those things. So there was a lot of details I didn't provide the Board in the reports yesterday. I
was just trying to give you a high level of how things were going and what the delays looked like
and what services were being disrupted, if any, at all.
An interesting thing yesterday is I think we ran our ever first rail bus bridge. You've heard us talk
about bus bridges, when we have disruptions with rail service, but because Pena Boulevard was
closed at 40th, the buses were stopping at the 40th and Airport Boulevard station and we were
putting people on the University of Colorado A Line to get them to the airport and out.
And amazingly enough, there were trains with over a couple hundred people as late as 8:30
coming out of the airport. So I think people were trying to get downtown and find hotels. Or
maybe workers were coming out. So the University of Colorado A Line had pretty good loads.
We were pretty light throughout the rest of the system all day yesterday and even this morning.
We made about 90% of the scheduled service on bus this morning and nearly 100% on rail. And
I just saw an update as I was coming in. We are hitting some power issues and things like that.
So we're still experiencing some delays and some aftermath, and we still have some facilities that
don't have power. They do have generator backup, but that's only as good as we can get fuel to
them and keep those generators fueled and keep them going.
But just a kudos to everybody that does all the hard work around here every day to make things
happen. We haven't had a storm like this for a while, and they're all unique in what they bring to
us. And this one was no stranger.
I also did-- I don't know if the Board members, when we do an all employee email, I don't know
if Board members receive that.
SHELLY COOK: I don't think I got that.
DAVE GENOVA: But I did authorize the nonessential employees to go home beginning at 9:30
yesterday morning, just in anticipation of-- I mean, everything under the sun was closed
yesterday. And I probably should have made that call the night before, but we kind of deal with
these things on a case by case basis because it's complicated for us. Because we have a lot of
people that are essential. And to allow people to go home and be paid while other people are out
really exposed in all these things.

So there's fairness issues, there's safety issues to be considered, so it's not something that I take
very lightly at all, but we did do that yesterday, given the fact that-- I mean everybody was-- I
mean, CDOT (Colorado Department of Transportation), the cities, schools, everybody was
closed. And so I made that decision at about 9:30 yesterday.
SHELLY COOK: I think you made the right call.
DAVE GENOVA: Because we don't want people in harm's way. And I think about all the people
that were stuck on those freeways that were closed last night, and probably a lot of them were
just to and from work, I would imagine. And so we want to be cognizant of that. And then today,
it was just, again, a message that I put out late last night, or about mid-evening last night was, we
understand there's going to be lots of school-- lots of closures today and lots of complications. So
arrive as you can. But your safety is your number one priority.
And then we'll also be communicating with employees about how to handle their time a little bit
later today. We will pay everybody for the day yesterday, whether they made it in or whether
they didn't. And then today's a little bit different, though. If people did not make it in today, we'll
probably expect them to take the time. But they won't be penalized for arriving late or anything
like that.
SHELLY COOK: I think you made the right call.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah
SHELLY COOK: Don't want to add people to the stranded [INAUDIBLE] there.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. And so how we communicate that to employees is just through email.
And then we also have an all hazards line that people can call into. And we put a message-- and
we update those messages as needed. So last night we put the message on there that just matched
right up with my email about, understand that there's going to be a lot of issues tomorrow, so get
in as you can.
SHELLY COOK: There were lots of laudatory messages on Twitter about things that both the
bus and train operators have done, so they're both great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook and I were at that State of Jeffco (Jefferson County) meeting
yesterday morning that started at 7:30, and it was done-SHELLY COOK: Just as it turned.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just as it started to turn to snow, and that was-- but I was surprised at the
number of people who were there. There were a few empty seats, but the Jefferson County
offices were closed, so to call in to find out if the event was still taking place, I just got a
message that our office is closed.

I will tell you that last night Kyle Clark said, because of the frozen switch, he said something
about, I'm not going to criticize RTD for a frozen switch in something like this.
SHELLY COOK: He sent this great tweet earlier in the day, showing me, yes, it's open.
Everything else is closed, but the A Line is operating.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. So that was kind of nice.
DAVE GENOVA: I saw some coverage with-- he was on in my office at about 1:00 yesterday,
and there was another newsperson with him. And he says, hey, Kyle, what about the A line
today? And he says, well, yeah, miracle of miracles, the A Lines operate. So he had to kind of-SHELLY COOK: In a backhanded way.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, it's always a backhanded compliment.
SHELLY COOK: Well, there was another newscaster who evidently was going to the airport,
and she just loved the train operator, so she did something on Twitter about her trip, took a
picture with the guy that was the operator. It was great.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. Well, it's an incredibly dedicated team. So they'll do the right thing.
JEFF WALKER: I took the 0 in and back yesterday. I let the pros handle it. And it was great.
The lot at Broadway station, I was there maybe 7:30 at the latest, between 7:00, 7:30. And you
could tell it had snowed, but there were piles, actually, so folks who've been working. No, wait,
it was still raining then. On the way home. It was on the way home. I could tell that folks had
been there that afternoon and got that cleaned off as well as they could while the snow was still
coming down.
But yeah, everything was great yesterday. The bus driver-- I have an email cued up. I figured I'd
wait till things calmed down. But the bus driver on the way in slowed as he approached the stops
so he wouldn't splash people that were waiting where water pooled in the streets. So that little
attention to detail. I'm sure it's not just him. I'm sure it's all over the system, but that's the kind of
stuff that really makes it nice for me, at least.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, recognizing that this storm is going to be in the rear view mirror by the
time the Board meets, I don't know if there's something we can say, either in your report or in the
Chair's report that, acknowledges what a great job they did.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, I definitely will. And we'll do some other acknowledgments, probably,
in the Monday Morning Dispatch at least. And I'm planning on getting some social media out on
what a great job the whole team did today.
SHELLY COOK: And if you're a driver, I mean, I'm sure it's obvious, but you just don't know
what it feels like unless you're out on the road. You can't see. You're trying to help people.
You've got this acute weight on your shoulders because you're carrying these people on board

and you've got the schedule pressures and it's really stressful. And I just feel for them when
they're out there.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, oh, absolutely. But we just-- we don't relax. The members of our
executive team and the leadership team, when our teams are out, we're with them. I mean, we're
not experiencing it, but we're sensitive to that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well I appreciated your updates throughout the day. They were-- they
provided a lot of information. So thank you. Excellent. Is there anything else? Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, let me-- thank you. If I may, just let me second the expressions by
all of the other members of the Executive Committee as to how well the agency responded to a
relatively unprecedented event. The bombogenesis or cyclone bomb, whatever you want to call
it, was absolutely outstanding. So truly appreciated.
PEGGY CATLIN: Indeed. Well, if there are no other matters, I guess we are adjourned at 12:17
PM. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, all. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Safe travels.

