Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, January 10, 2012
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

January 10, 2012

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held on Tuesday, January 10, 2012 at 5:30
p.m.

Special Board Meeting
I.

Call to Order
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

Roll Call
There were fourteen (14) Board members present at roll call. Director Anderson
was absent but joined the meeting via conference call.

III.

Election of New Officers for the Executive Committee
Chair Kemp thanked all the Board members for a new year and shared that each year
during the first meeting or special board meeting of the year, the Board of Directors
elect the new officers for the year. He asked for a motion.
Motion:

Director James expressed that the current Board has served the
Board well and has well represented the collective interest of the
Board. He made the following nominations:
Chair Lee Kemp as Chair for 2012
1st Vice-Chair John Tayer as 1st Vice-Chair for 2012
2nd Vice-Chair Matt Cohen as 2nd Vice-Chair for 2012
Secretary Angie Malpiede as Secretary for 2012
Treasurer Kent Bagley as Treasurer for 2012

Vote on
Motion:

Director Hoy seconded the motion.
The electronic vote passed fourteen (14) in favor and 0 against.
Director Anderson could not vote since she was not physically
present at this meeting.

Director Anderson commented that she fully supports this vote and if she had been
here would have voted in favor of the nomination.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, January 10, 2012
Page 2 of 4
Director McMullen commented this has been an extraordinaire Board where
everyone has made equal contributions.
Director Malpiede thanked everyone for placing their trust in her. She stated that
being the secretary can be quite busy but she loves it.
Director Cohen expressed his thanks to the Board and stated he is truly honored to
be able to serve in this capacity.
Director Tayer expressed thanks and for the vote of confidence from the members
of the Board.
Director Bagley echoed the expressions of thanks and the confidence that the
members had in this body of elected officers.

IV.

Action Item
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to accept the bank
Account Signature Authorization Agreement with the newly
approved officer signatures.
Director James seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The vote passed 14 in favor and 0 against. Director Anderson
was absent.
Chair Kemp declared this action PASSED.

Motion:

Director James made the motion to approve the selection of
the official location for the posting of Board notices.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:
V.

The vote passed 14 in favor and 0 against. Director Anderson
was absent.

Other Matters


General Manager Washington congratulated the new officers for 2012 and
stated he looked forward to working with them. He provided updates on two
items:
1. Northwest Rail—General Manager Washington passed out a handout on
Northwest Rail as preliminary read. He stated this will be presented at
the FasTracks meeting on 1/17/12. He expects quite a detailed
discussion.
2. RTD/CDOT joint ballot—General Manager Washington shared that Don
Hunt, Executive Director for CDOT, has circulated a proposal for RTD
and CDOT to go together at the ballot for a sales tax increase. He
indicated that he had given this proposal two conditions: (1) RTD must
get .04 sales tax and this must occur in 2012. A task force consisting
of 4 members from RTD staff (Marla Lien, Del Walker, Bill Van Meter
and Carla Perez) and members from CDOT will convene to look at the
viability of such a proposal.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, January 10, 2012
Page 3 of 4

Director Deadwyler inquired if going to the ballot jointly would change the amount
that we would be seeking or how would the total amount be broken up. General
Manager Washington indicated they have not had that discussion.
Director Walker inquired if CDOT already has a list of projects they want to have
included. General Manager Washington indicated we currently have not seen such a
list but believes they are working on one.
Director James asked about the distribution between maintenance and new capital.
General Manager Washington indicated these details will need to be ferreted out.
Director Williams expressed that we need to be looking at transportation holistically.
She stated that CDOT has big obstacles legislatively to overcome but we need to
look for cooperative regional approaches. This may be a heavy lift.
Director Bagley stated the Executive Committee has done a great job. He wanted to
recognize the 3 members of the Board staff who have been fundamental to the
success. Director Anderson echoed her praise for the Board staff and the excellent
work that they do.
VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 5:55 p.m. to the Operations and Customer Services
Committee meeting.

Prepared by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, January 10, 2012
Page 4 of 4

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, January 10, 2012

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
Kathi Williams
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Jeff Becker
Larry Buter
Jessie Carter
Carolyn Conover
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L– via Conference Call
District N
District B
District J
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D
District K

Austin Jenkins
Marla Lien
Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Brian Matthews
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Trent Ratcliff

Scott Reed
Jannette Scarpino
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT
Margaret Attencio, Kathy Cole - Colorado Department of Human Services-Division of Vocational
Rehab, Julie Farrar – Colorado Developmental Disabilities Council, Claudia Folska, and Stan Gronek
– ATU 1001

