1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, July 8, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Gary Lasater

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lasater called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present
Bruce Daly
Director, District N
Present
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Absent
Claudia Folska
Director, District E
Present
Larry Hoy
Committee Chair
Absent
Bill James
Director, District A
Present
Gary Lasater
Committee Vice-Chair
Present
Judy Lubow
Director, District I
Present
Natalie Menten
Director, District M
Present
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Director, District C
Present
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

Arrived
5:32 PM
5:09 PM
5:32 PM
4:58 PM
5:15 PM
5:11 PM
5:31 PM
5:21 PM
5:10 PM
5:14 PM
5:10 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Present

5:12 PM

Directors Deadwyler, Hoy and Tobiassen were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Chuck
Culig, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter,
Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Janette
Scarpino, Cheryl Sclafani, Steve Sholtz, Bill Sirois, Cherie Sprague,
Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood, Nikita Zanichkowsky

Others Present:

Nic Dial, Joni Goheen, Sherman Hamilton, Matthew Helfant, Nate
Herman, Eugene Howard, Mike Peek, Jeanne Shreve, Joe Triplett,
Gary van Dorn, Hugh Wilson

B. Citizens Advisory Committee
Hugh Wilson, Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Co-Chair, thanked the Board for
the opportunity to report on the CAC’s activities. He shared that in May the CAC
did not meet as a committee after all the festivities for the Denver Union Station
Grand Opening but they did have a tour of the East Line at the end of the month.
He said the committee was very impressed by the degree of progress along the
Line.
Hugh Wilson stated that the CAC had their quarterly meeting in Boulder on June
18th to solicit citizen input and feedback. He said that unfortunately there was no
public in attendance for this particular meeting. Hugh Wilson noted that there was
a pretty torrential downpour that evening which would have deterred attendees.
He pointed out that additionally, there has been a lot of activity in this area already
through the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) so the public may feel like they
have been adequately heard. Hugh Wilson shared that the CAC did have a great
opportunity to speak with Chair Sisk that evening; the CAC also received a great
update on the final NAMS outcome and the RTD TIGER grant application for Bus
Rapid Transit.
Chair Sisk thanked the CAC for coming to Boulder. He really appreciates the
commitment of the members. Chair Sisk thought it was great to be able to partake
in a discussion with them. He said that he hopes the CAC is not discouraged by
the lack of public turnout in Boulder. Hugh Wilson said that the CAC members are
very committed and plan to continue to outreach throughout the District.

Director Lasater asked where the next few quarterly meetings might be held.
Pauletta Tonilas, Senior Manager of Public Information and Public Relations, said
they would be held in Aurora and Five Points.

C. Recommended Actions

• Approval to submit the RTD FasTracks Projects for the DRCOG 2040
Regional Transportation Plan (Baseline Report)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution, which will permit
staff to submit to DRCOG, by August 1, 2014, a Baseline Report on
FasTracks in conformance with DRCOG’s request for ongoing review of
the FasTracks Plan pursuant to C.R.S. 32-9-107.7 as outlined by DRCOG
Resolution passed September 18, 2013. FasTracks projects and project
elements that will be completed by 2040, as described in this report, will
be included in the 2040 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) currently
being prepared by DRCOG.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 15, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, and
General Manager Washington reviewed a Power Point with the
Board that is available in the July 8, 2014 FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet.
Bill Van Meter noted that the goals of the presentation are to
provide the Board with 1) more background on the DRCOG
authority for approving fixed guideways under SB 208, 2) an
update of FasTracks projects staff is planning to submit for the
DRCOG 2040 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), 3) a
schedule for the Southeast Rail Extension, and 4) a summary
of the next steps.
Bill Van Meter explained that SB90-208 (referred to as SB
208), enacted in 1990, grants DRCOG the authority to
approve a fixed guideway transit system, specifically in the
method of financing and technology selected. He noted that
all RTD FasTracks projects need to be identified not only in SB
208 but also in DRCOG’s 2040 Regional Transportation Plan
(RTP), which DRCOG is in the process of developing. Bill Van
Meter stated that FasTracks projects must be included in the

RTP for National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) approval
and to be eligible for federal funding.
Bill Van Meter informed the Board that DRCOG asked for
RTD’s Baseline Report for our FasTracks Projects by August 1,
2014. He said that everything staff intends to submit to
DRCOG is in conformance with the Annual Program Evaluation
(APE) that was approved by the Board in May 2014, with the
exception of the noteworthy revision to the Southeast Rail
Extension Project.
Bill Van Meter reminded the Board that this action is simply to
get all the FasTracks projects articulated and identified in the
RTP. He reiterated that by including the Southeast Rail
Extension in the RTP, keeping it in the New Starts pipeline,
could result in a Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) of $92
million in 2016. He noted that RTD has a good relationship
with the FTA for delivering projects as promised; moving
forward with the Southeast Rail Extension is important in
maintaining this relationship and building on RTD’s history of
success in receiving federal funds.
Bill Van Meter outlined the Southeast Rail Extension funding
commitments as follows:
 Federal contribution (FFGA) – $92 million or 44.3%
 DRCOG 1st commitment in principle (CMAQ) – $7.5
million or 3.6%
 Local Stakeholder cash commitment – $25 million or
12.1%
 Local Stakeholder right-of-way – $9.2 million or 4.4%
 RTD-previously-committed funding (2014 APE) – $8.1
million or 3.9%
 RTD required additional match – $65.6 million or
31.6%
Bill Van Meter noted that on a project with a projected total
cost of $207.4 million, RTD’s contribution would only be
$73.7 million or 35.5%.
General Manager Washington said that as staff had discussed
with the Board previously, the FasTracks Baseline Report for
inclusion in the DRCOG RTP is a requirement for all FasTracks
Projects, not just the Southeast Extension. He stressed that
not including projects in the RTP would preclude these
projects from moving forward; RTD cannot accept any federal

dollars unless the projects are included in the DRCOG RTP or
through an amendment.
General Manager Washington noted that there had been
several questions asked that he wanted to answer.
1) Why the Southeast Extension: it is a good candidate for
federal funding in terms of the cost effective index,
ridership, etc. He said that in evaluating the remaining
projects this is the best candidate for federal funding.
2) Is the stakeholder contribution enough: this contribution
is the largest RTD has ever received from the local area
stakeholders on a FasTracks corridor since we began.
3) How much is the developer providing for the local
stakeholder cash contribution: staff will not know the
breakdown until the terms of the Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) are negotiated.
4) What happens if the Board does not approve this item:
staff is concerned that RTD will lose credibility at the
federal level for future requests.
5) Can these funds be used for other projects: FFGA funds
are requested for specific projects and therefore cannot
be used for anything else.
6) How will RTD’s contribution be funded: RTD would
issue sales tax revenue bonds.
7) Why have the ridership projections changed: DRCOG is
always updating their land use models which can in
turn impact our ridership projections. The Southeast
ridership projections changed along with all the other
corridors.
General Manager Washington pointed out that the local
contribution leaves just 35.5% of the total project cost to be
contributed by RTD; there is no other FasTracks project where
RTD can contributed 35.5% and get a complete project done.
He said that the name of the game is who leverages best to
get projects done and he believes this is a very good leverage
of RTD dollars.
General Manager Washington reiterated that in regards to a
‘no’ vote or tepid approval by the Board, he believes that
sends a negative message to our federal partners that RTD is
not totally committed; walking away from a FFGA of $92
million and a local commitment of $30-$40 million is not good
public policy. General Manager Washington is concerned that
a ‘no’ vote on this action will prevent RTD from pursuing

federal funds for any other corridors; a ‘no’ vote will ruin
RTD’s credibility.
Director Daly wondered what the new ridership numbers for
the Southeast are. He also asked how it might impact RTD’s
FFGA request. Bill Van Meter said that they are down slightly
due to changes in employment and demographic projections.
This leads to ridership dropping from about 9,200 per day to
7,100 per day. Bill Van Meter noted that at one time this
would have been pretty serious; however, with recent changes
from MAP-21 staff feels confident that this is a good project in
all the categories evaluated.
General Manager Washington commented that this is really
just a snapshot in time. He said that RTD will not know if
these projections have an impact unless we move into the
next stage.
Director Lubow stated that she would be voting against this
proposal. She said that it is not because she thinks it is a bad
proposal but she is concerned for what it will do to the
projects that are left behind, which are in her area. Director
Lubow noted that if one corridor goes forward, that means it
pushes back the time that the other corridors have to wait to
access FasTracks funding. She commented that while the
results of the NAMS did say that the community wanted BRT,
that is only for the short term; it is only because her
community is not getting rail in the immediate future. Director
Lubow shared that she truly believes that government has a
responsibility to fulfill its contracts with the people, which is
not happening in her community. She expressed that as a
matter of principle she has to vote against this
recommendation. General Manager Washington said that it is
staff’s opinion that a ‘no’ vote by the Board actually
negatively affects the other corridors because of its impact on
RTD’s ability to get future federal dollars. He stated that
foregoing $92 million on a project sends a very bad message
when we go try to ask for more.
Director Folska thanked staff for a very thorough, detailed, and
in-depth overview. She noted that Bill Van Meter said that
DRCOG is providing 3.6% or $7.5 million for the Southeast
Extension, as they have done on all our FasTracks projects.
She wonders if that means they have provided 3.6% of the
total project cost or a flat amount of $7.5 million for each

project. Bill Van Meter stated that DRCOG provides $7.5
million for each project.
Director Folska stated that she believes RTD’s contribution for
the Southeast Extension is significantly small compared to
what we have paid for other projects. She thinks it is great
that the people of the community were willing to commit
16.5% of the project cost versus just the required 2.5%. She
wonders why RTD has not proposed working in partnership
with Douglas County to leverage their right-of-way for
Certificates of Participation (COPs) as Douglas County is only
going to benefit when the property values go up. Terry
Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, stated that COPs require a
clean collateral, so when there is a federal interest we cannot
do COPs. Director Solano asked for a clarification why COPs
and federal monies could not be used for the same asset.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, stated that COPs could actually
be used when there were federal funds as RTD has done with
a number of assets1. Terry Howerter stated that for this
corridor to step-up and contributed 16.5% is huge compared
to what RTD has received elsewhere. He said that the
proposed financing fits well within the model and the finance
team is ready to move forward with Board approval.
Director Anderson stated that in all the years she has worked
within the community, even though each area wanted to be
first to get FasTracks built, everyone still worked together for
the whole region, not just their own benefit. She said that
recently a memo was brought to her attention from the year
2000 from the City of Arvada representative to the US36 MIS
Policy Committee. She read the memo aloud to demonstrate
that the FasTracks process has always been one of
compromise and support within the Denver region so the
entire FasTracks system could be built out. Director Folska
called for a point of order and requested that Director
Anderson present this document that she read and enter it into
the record of this evening’s discussion. Director Solano
Seconded the request. Director Anderson indicated she would
not have a problem providing this to staff as this is a public
document2. The Board office has been unable to attain a
direct copy of this memo.
1

There was some confusion about the issue of COPs so further discussion was taken offline.
Director Anderson did provide excerpts from this memo, a copy of which can be found in the
Board Meeting minutes file located in the Board office.
2

Director Solano stated that at this time he was a borderline
‘no’. He thinks that everything is starting to go south again
when we need to go north; the north has gotten the short end
of the stick for a number of years.
Chair Sisk thanked staff for an excellent presentation. He
noted the tremendous amount of work that has gone into this
report. Chair Sisk recognized that everyone is trying to do
what is best for their respective districts, but the Board also
needs to look at what is best for the entire District. He shared
that is why he has a different perspective than Directors
Lubow and Solano; he feels this is something important for the
Board to come together as a group and support.
Chair Sisk noted that that a letter from the local stakeholders
indicated a right-of-way contribution of $15 million but in the
chart presented by staff it was actually only $9.2 million. He
asked for an explanation of the discrepancy. He also
requested a breakdown of how the $9.2 million was
calculated. Bill Van Meter stated that until the details of an
IGA are worked out staff cannot put a final value on the
contributions so they took a conservative value. He also
noted that the letter from stakeholders also referenced other
in-kind contributions such as permit waivers that would be in
addition to the $9.2 million in right-of-way determined by
staff.
Director Bagley reminded the Board that this action was
initiated by the Board that sat at that time in August of 2012;
however, it was under discussion previous to that action. He
stated that there has been a lot of work done on this project.
Director Bagley requested the updated ridership projections for
all corridors, including those in operation, prior to the vote at
the Board meeting.
Director Bagley noted that the FasTracks program has been
going on since 2004. He stated that he fully and categorically
supports moving this action forward. He said that RTD has an
exemplary history of obtaining federal money, going as far
back as the Southwest corridor. RTD has been a partner with
the current Obama Administration in getting federal monies for
the last 5.5 years. He commented that this Administration
has specifically said that one of their major and important
focuses is infrastructure; what RTD is doing is exactly what

the Administration wants to see done in order to accelerate
this economy. He expressed that he could not be more
appreciative of Director Anderson’s comments. He shared
that the reason he wore his shirt was that it says RTD, not
MTD or my transportation district; the Board is in this
together. He stated that the message the Board sends to
RTD’s partners needs to be that we are all in this together to
make sure FasTracks gets completed. Director Bagley pointed
out that even though this is not in his District he fully supports
building the Southeast Rail Extension.
Director Bagley stated that approving this recommendation
also sends a message to the economic development
community. FasTracks is one of the major reasons that the
Denver metro area has the economic development that exists
today. He noted that in many other places in the state that
economic development does not exists.
Director Bagley said that for all the reasons he mentioned the
vote needs to be positive.
Director Walker commented that the action before the Board
gets the Southeast Extension to engineering where the project
has to go someday anyway. He said this also supports
regional transportation, which is what he has been dreaming
of since he moved to Denver. Director Walker stated that the
last thing RTD wants to do is have the feds look at us as if we
do not have our act together. He believes that as long as
there is an opportunity to build in any corridor RTD should take
advantage of that.
Director James stated that he agrees with the Directors who
have expressed the need to think regionally, not locally. He
shared that he may act a lot locally but when he comes to this
table as a Board member he tries to think regionally as much
as possible. He expressed his belief is staff’s assertion that a
‘no’ vote on this recommendation will contaminate RTD’s
relationship with our partners and will be a detriment to
FasTracks projects not yet built.
Director Rivera-Malpiede expressed her wholehearted support
of this recommendation. She noted that she was on the Board
when the Southeast Extension was first voted on in 2012.
Director Rivera-Malpiede stated that she knew the entire
FasTracks project would really put the Denver-Boulder area on

the map as a viable city for transportation. Director RiveraMalpiede stated that RTD’s staff is outstanding. She said she
is asked at all the conferences she attends how RTD has such
a great staff. Director Rivera-Malpiede commented that she
knows the people of her District would support this vote and
she will as well.
Director Menten pointed out that when she looks at the cost
estimates she sees the cost of the Southeast Extension going
up. She asked what the original cost estimate was in 2004
when approved by the voters as she believes it has gone up
since then. General Manager Washington stated that when
staff was referencing the cost decreasing that was in relation
to the cost in the 2014 APE, not when it was originally
approved. He said that everything has gone up from the
original plan. Director Menten requested to see the original
projection.
Director Menten stated that she had never heard that a 2.5%
local match was required by the FTA. Bill Van Meter said that
she was correct; the 2.5% match is an RTD requirement, as
approved by the Board. He noted that the FTA requirement is
a minimum of 20% local dollars, including RTD funds;
however, in practice it is really a 50% match.
Director Menten asked if the application for the FFGA would
include how DRCOG calculated the new ridership projection of
7,200. Bill Van Meter said that an overview of what went
into the projections could be included.
Committee Chair Lasater noted that the cost being discussed
this evening did not include some previous expenditures of
around $40-50 million for the purchase of additional rail cars.
Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
said that the figure was around $31.5 million.
Committee Chair Lasater said that it was his understanding
that because of the reduction of riders, RTD had also reduced
the parking at the RidgeGate Park-n-Ride. He asked if it was
correct that now for opening day there will be 700 spots
instead of the originally planned 2000 and by 2035 there will
be 2100 down from 3600. Bill Van Meter Stated that was
correct.

Committee Chair Lasater commented that the 16% local
match really shows their commitment to the project; however,
he is struggling with a personal moral conflict so he will be
abstaining from the vote. Director Menten asked if he could
further explain his conflict. Committee Chair Lasater shared
that he campaigned on the message of last in, last served and
he feels this goes against that; however, he recognizes the
huge commitment from the stakeholders so that is why he is
still conflicted.
Director Bagley stated that the local cash share as defined is
12.1%. He said that this is a big cash infusion. Most of the
other corridors’ 2.5% local match has been in right-of-way,
permit fees, etc. He reiterated how significant a local match
of 12.1% in cash is. He does not believe that any of the other
corridors are prepared to come up with that kind of a cash
contribution.
Director Lubow expressed concern about the statement of
other corridors not being willing to bring forth the same large
cash contribution. She believes that when the voters
approved FasTracks, they did not do it with the understanding
that the people without money do not get FasTracks. Her
opinions is that the Board has to be very careful in speaking
like that.
Chair Sisk asked how many Directors needed to vote ‘yes’ for
this item to move to the Board meeting given the fact that
someone would be abstaining. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
stated that there would still need to be a vote in favor of the
majority of Directors present.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 2 WITH 1 ABSENTION]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, James, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Walker
NAYS: Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
ABSTAIN:
Gary Lasater
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Larry Hoy, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Lasater declared the motion PASSED.
Director Lubow indicated she had inadvertently voted wrong. The vote has
been corrected to reflect this change.

• Approval of Construction Contract for the Central Park Station PnR & Bus
Transfer Center
It is recommend by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a construction contract with M.A.
Mortenson Company in the amount of $10,899,258.23 for the construction
of the Central Park Station Park-n-Ride and Bus Transfer Center, which will
serve the East Rail Line Central Park Station, regional and local buses and
the local neighborhood. Funding for this project is included in the 2014
Amended Budget for the Eagle Project and the non-FasTracks capital project
for the Stapleton Park-n-Ride replacement.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 15, 2014
Board meeting.
Chair Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Cory Granrud, Manager of Park-n-Ride Design, reviewed a
Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the
July 8, 2014 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda
Packet.
Director Folska thanked Cory Granrud for a great presentation.
She noted that he discussed having Access-a-Ride within the
transit center. She asked if anyone on staff had tried to get
Access-a-Ride to pick them up from a station because it will
not happen. Director Folska stated that she does not believe
that staff is having individuals with disabilities provide input
into the facilities. She finds this very concerning, noting that
this was the case at Denver Union Station as well.
Director Folska asked why staff was proposing a surface
parking lot rather than a structure. She also asked how many
ADA spaces were planned. Rick Clarke stated that the
primary driving factor in selecting a surface lot was cost. He
noted that the lot is being designed so there is the possibility
to build a structure at a later date. Cory Granrud said that
there will be 38 ADA spaces. Director Folska asked if that
was the minimum number required. She feels that RTD should
look at the minimum number as the floor, not the celling. Cory
Granrud said that 38 was the minimum number required.

Director Folska pointed out how difficult it can be for a visually
impaired rider to locate the right bus when there are a large
number of bus gates. She asked staff to look into providing
better audible signage. She also expressed concern that a
visually impaired rider will not be able to locate an emergency
telephone as the only indicator that one exists is a blue light.
She suggested that these phones have a pinging sound.
Director Lubow said that she did not see any analysis on how
the contractor was selected. She wondered how staff made
their decision. Rick Clarke explained that this was a design,
bid, build contract so in those instances staff selects the
lowest qualified bidder. He said that staff is recommending
M.A. Mortenson Company, who was $1 million less than the
other bidder.
Director Lubow asked if staff has looked into any Transit
Oriented Development (TOD) opportunities around the transit
facility. She hopes that staff is looking at this with all our
stations. Cory Granrud stated that staff has identified one
location that is being targeted for TOD.
Director Menten noted that the plans included charging
stations for electric cars as well as solar panels. She wonders
if RTD plans to charge people for using the stations. She also
expressed concern that solar technology does not really pay
for itself and can be very expensive. Rick Clarke stated that
for both of these items the infrastructure is just being put in so
the option to use it is there in the future. He said that staff is
applying for grants for the charging stations. Rick Clarke also
said that in relation to solar technology, it can be expensive
when retrofitting something but it is relatively inexpensive to
build into the infrastructure from the beginning.
Director Rivera-Malpiede expressed that she is very pleased
with the DBE goal of 27%. She shared that there is a TOD
station area plan that has been created by the Stapleton
community and unanimously approved by the Denver City
Council in 2012. She believes it will really be a catalyst for
the Northeast quadrant.
Director Solano pointed out that this area boarders his District.
He wonders if there might be some opportunities to work
together with the North Metro Line and the TOD through bus
service.

Director Anderson complimented staff on the plan. She feels
it depicts a major transit hub. She appreciates that the transit
facility will include a drivers’ relief station as those are so
important to have. Director Anderson also thanked Director
Rivera-Malpiede for all the work she has done on this project.
Rick Clarke said that Director Deadwyler was also very
involved in the project.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Larry Hoy, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Lasater declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

D. Updates

• I-225 Rail Line Project Update
Chuck Culig, I-225 Engineering Project Manager, reviewed a Power Point
presentation with the Board that is available in the July 8, 2014 FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. There were no questions from
Directors.

• FasTracks Public Information Update
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, and Pauletta
Tonilas, Senior Manager of Public Information and Public Relations, reviewed
a Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the July 8,
2014 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. There were no
questions from Directors.

E. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

F. Next Meeting Date - August 5, 2014
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lasater adjourned the meeting at 7:59 p.m. to the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

