Dec 11 2018 0530 PM Operations & Customer Service
Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, let's go ahead and get started. I'm Barb Deadwyler of the
Operations and Customer Service Committee. We have two recommended actions tonight, and
I'll go ahead and introduce the first one. It is recommended by the Operation Customer Service
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
authorize the purchase of 14 new 45-foot intercity buses for Flatiron Flyer's services from Motor
Coach Industries (MCI) for a price not to exceed $634,715.17 each and one spare engine after
treatment for $47,987. The total cost of this contract is $8,933,999.38. Can I get a motion?
SPEAKER 1: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: Second.
LARRY HOY: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: That was Mihalik. Who was the second?
NATALIE MENTEN: Mihalik and Hoy.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Do we have a presentation on that or-MICHAEL FORD: I think you got the highlights. I can go into, I guess, a little bit more detail.
I'm Michael Ford, COO, and I'm joined by Steve Gieske. We're obviously needing to get some
additional buses, 14. We're able to piggyback on the order that CDOT has out. They've given us
room on their order process to do that.
We're looking to secure 14 buses and also an engine. And also, the delivery time based on their
availability right now would be sometime this time next year. So, again, you captured the cost
and the focus on the 14 vehicles plus the engine. If there are any other questions I'd be happy to
answer them now. But that pretty much rounds out the information.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Ford, I have a couple of questions
about these buses. How much money are we saving by piggybacking with CDOT?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

STEVE GIESKE: This is Steve Gieske, the General Superintendent of Maintenance for bus.
That's hard to say. We would have to go out for a procurement to do that, to get a price from
MCI. We believe that we are saving a significant amount of money because we do not have any
projections to purchase any other intercities for over six years. So if we went out for a
procurement, it would be strictly for 14 buses. And you usually do not get a favorable pricing
point from the manufacturers when you do that limited amount of buses.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So the buses that CDOT buys have bathrooms in them. I'm assuming
these don't.
STEVE GIESKE: Yes, ma'am. We would be eliminating the bathroom. They would be exactly
the same as the Flatiron Flyers that we currently have. The only difference would be the actual
engine. It has updated emissions standards.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I feel compelled to ask you about the emissions standards or what that is.
But I actually don't care. I'm more concerned about just using fuel. And so based on what I've
been talking about regarding the climate change reports that we've been seeing and so on, I'm
going to vote no on buying any new buses for anything, unless they're electric, powered by solar
or wind. So I understand the need for it, and I know that we need it. And I don't object buying
new buses. But I think it's time to start weaning ourselves off of fuel and fossil fuels and look at
other energy sources. So, thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. So logistically, how does this work? We get 14
new buses that are Flatiron Flyer buses. And then we're probably going to retire some MCI
coaches. I'm assuming that we have some in retirement. These can't be all for new service on-MICHAEL FORD: I believe they're in their mid-life right now. Is that right?
STEVE GIESKE: We won't be retiring any for at least six years.
LARRY HOY: Even some of the old-STEVE GIESKE: Yes, sir.
LARRY HOY: --MCIs that we have? OK. All right. That's a fine answer. I just-- that surprised
me a little bit. And I, for one, will be happy to vote for a bus that runs off of diesel. They're very
clean. In fact, intercity, sometimes the exhaust coming out the tailpipe is better than the air going
inside the engine. Gets cleaned up, because of our engines. I also wonder if there are electric
buses that could do that route up the Davidson Mesa. I know they have a lot of torque, but it also
consumes a lot of battery power.
STEVE GIESKE: That would be something that we would have to really look into and evaluate
to ensure that they had the power to go up Davidson Mesa. That is always an issue with that
route.

LARRY HOY: And it proved to be when we were speccing out the MCI buses three or four
years ago. But, and if I may, I think it's something we should look at, though. I think that maybe
at some point electric buses will be what we use. I just don't think that they're available here and
now for the buses that we need here and now. So, thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Hoy. Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair. It seems to me when we looked at that originally,
the issue of coming up out of the valley there was the big one in getting out of Boulder. As I
understand it, these are very clean for a diesel and compare well with natural gas or something
else. It probably would not work if they had to move slower than they do, because I think there's- the way that whole system works is based on the buses moving right along. Is that not true?
STEVE GIESKE: That's correct, ma'am.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: OK. Thank you. That's all I have.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson. Director Williams, are you still
with us?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am still here, thank you, Chairwoman. I think it's great that we are adding
buses to the Flatiron Flyer route, because my understanding is that many, many times it's SRO
(standing room only). I'm sad that it'll take us this time next year to get them. But I think it's a
good thing that we're doing. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Ford, I think my colleagues have
excellent points, and I would tend to agree with them. However, if we think that when we were
living with dial-up for accessing the internet and look at what we have now. Elon Musk can send
a car on a rocket into outer space.
Things change quickly and rapidly at an accelerated rate, so I think it's time to really start
looking at how to integrate. And there may be routes that can't do it, but those that can should
really be looking at that. But maybe there is an opportunity today, because of the way technology
is, that we can start doing that. But it's true, years ago that wasn't the case. So I'm hoping that you
can start looking into that. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: We'll definitely keep our options open and continue to look at other
innovations and what we can do.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I was just listening to this line of thought and conversation
and I'm-- would like to make a suggestion to address Director Folska's very legitimate concern
about the incredibly grave position the whole world is in because of the climate problem, that it

would be useful when we buy vehicles to explain-- if we're not buying the most advanced,
pollutant-cleaning technology-- to explain why it doesn't make sense to do that in this particular
case. Yeah. Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Lubow. OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I apologize. So this will be quite a while before we're going to be buying
any other buses to this-MICHAEL FORD: That's correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: --sizing.
MICHAEL FORD: Six years.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I can't help it then, because it's going to be about six years or so,
whatever you said, right? We'll just add in Chair Tisdale's favorite cartoon. We'll call it now the
Flintstone Flyer.
[LAUGHTER]
And we will use pedal power, and everybody can be happy. So when you're looking at new
innovative ideas, you can write that one down.
MICHAEL FORD: We're look for a Flintstone type of [INAUDIBLE].
NATALIE MENTEN: Flintstone Flyer. Thanks.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Menten. Are there any other comments,
questions? So let's move to the vote. The mover is Director Mihalik. The second is Director Hoy.
Director Williams, did you say you were voting in the affirmative?
KATE WILLIAMS: I did, Madam Chair. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. So we have 13 yeses, one no, which is Director Folska. So this
will be on our unanimous consent. Oh, I'm sorry. Recommended action. Woo.
[LAUGHTER]
OK. All right. We have one more recommended action. But before I read this into record, I'd like
to ask a few questions of our counsel, any of the Board members that like to chime in. I have
concerns that this item on the agenda to be brought before the Board tonight has already been
addressed by the Board and voted on. And I'm wondering-- I want to make sure things are done

proper and in order-- what the process is for bringing something back to the Board in a different
meeting and in such a short period of time.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel.
And I understood that you wanted me to comment on that or respond to that. The motion, as you
recall this-- DRCOG vanpooling motion passed this committee on November 13 by a vote of 12
to 2 with everyone voting in favor except for Directors Menten and Mihalik and with Director
Archuleta absent.
However, at the November 27 Board meeting, although it received a majority of votes-- it
received seven votes and five nos-- it still failed to meet the eight affirmative vote threshold. The
motion has again been recommended by staff. For it to pass, it would need a motion. It would
need a second, and it would need passage out of this committee like any other motion. And this
is called a renewed motion, not a motion to reconsider, a renewed motion.
And it is authorized by Robert's Rules of Order. The special restrictions on motions to
reconsider-- that it has to be made by a person on the prevailing side of the original vote-- apply
only to reconsideration at the same session. When you have a new session, you can have a
renewed motion. And it doesn't need a motion to renew. It's simply just brought up again.
You see that in situations, for example, where a budget fails to pass, and it's brought up again
later on. Or you see that where sometimes things on the federal level get moved over and over
and over again. It is permitted. I can provide more information on the rule, but the basic concept
is that the defeat of a motion at a particular meeting is not the same as a past affirmative motion
to not do something. So if a motion is defeated at a particular session, it can be brought up again.
It's best to try to avoid repeat motions, especially, as you say, at the very next session like this.
But I think the feeling of the staff was that there were quite a few Director absences at the last
meeting. This is a project that has been something we've been doing since 2001 with DRCOG. It
did receive a majority of the votes.
That's an unusual situation where it received actually a majority of votes at that meeting. You
just didn't meet that unusual statutory eight vote threshold. And for all these reasons, staff felt
that it was our responsibility to at least bring this up to the Board again so that the Board could
decide what they wanted to do. But nothing will happen, of course, unless there's a motion and a
second and it passes out of committee and then passes the Board.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Does the Board have any questions or comments to what was just
said?
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair? Madam Chair, this is Director Williams.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Go ahead.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I was not at the meeting on November 27, but had I been, I
would have voted affirmative. So I don't know if that makes a difference to the whole situation
or not.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: No, because I'm getting ready to read the motion into the record
right now. So you have an opportunity to vote you're affirmative or against in just a few minutes.
OK?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: All right.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I'm going to go ahead and read the motion. And we need to get a
first and a second on it. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an agreement with Denver Regional Council of Governments,
DRCOG, to provide RTD financial support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2019 and shall be
in an amount not to exceed $780,000. Get a motion on that?
BOB BROOM: Move to approve.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Who was that second?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
[LAUGHTER]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Director Broom is the mover and Director Mihalik as the
second. No?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Anderson as the second. All right. OK, it's open for
questions or comments. OK. Let's start with Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I just wanted to speak to the alternatives that are out there. I think
there were some Directors who felt with the vote and the way that it ended last time that it was
just a dead end, but it truly is not. As we talk about the change in technology, there are already
what they call disruptive technologies, but I call it innovative technologies. That would be things

like Uber and the Lyft, which we all are very well aware of now. And Uber X, which is the
variety where you have multiple passengers.
And looking into this further, the argument has been we need government to oversee a vanpool
program. But right now, here and now, operating is a system called Google Waze, W-A-Z-E, that
accomplishes just what we are talking about, which is a system set up, managed, coordinated by
an entity that is very IT capable and allows people even more flexibility than a carpool program-would be in the government setup that I have seen where somebody is able to log in as part of the
Google Waze program, team up with somebody who has chosen to be one of the drivers, and be
reimbursed on a very limited level for their mileage and cost of the vehicle. So it's 50 some
miles, 50 some cents per miles. And you can only get two per day.
So it's not a profit-making feature, but it is an example of the private sector stepping in to fulfill
the carpool need that's there. If we were able to eliminate the government oversight of the
vanpool, at least in large part, we would be able to save taxpayers potentially-- easily, actually-a million dollars or more that could be spent then on some other areas to stretch that, whether
that means covering capital that we continue to push out into future years or a multitude of other
things.
DRCOG's vanpool right now serves just under 500 riders to the tune of a million dollars a year
or more. I would just love to see us look at the alternatives. And it seems like it now as good a
time as any. So I'll again be voting no on this. Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I will be voting yes as I did before. I think it's a program that
works and has been working for quite a while, and I hate the thought of it dying because we don't
put in our share. It's my understanding that there are other grants that also support this, and those
would be lost. And I think that these vanpools specifically help folks in more transit-deprived
areas like my own in which you don't have really great regular fixed bus services. So to me, this
is a situation that helps people and helps our mission of transporting people and getting them out
of single-occupancy-only vehicles. So I will heartily be supporting this. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Deadwyler. The only concern I had-- I voted no last
round, and one of the reasons was I was concerned if this vanpool program serves the ADA
community in a sufficient way. How do we address-- if somebody calls into this vanpool and
they're ADA required, how do we serve them, that individual?
MICHAEL FORD: I guess what I can tell you is I know within 24 hours they can find a liftequipped vehicle. I'll let Brian speak to more information, but their responsiveness is very quick
on this need for something that's accessible.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Can I have another shot at the apple there?

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yes.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Go ahead. I'm sorry.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: Hi. This is Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services. The vanpools,
I would consider 100% accessible. If a group asked for a van that needs a wheelchair ramp, we
will get the van. If they need a van that has like a handle of some sort, any type of accessible
item that's needed, we accommodate. And usually, when we form our vanpool, that's a question
that comes up, if they need a ramp on there for a wheelchair. And then they order the van, and if
somebody needs a van with some type of accessible portion on it later, we fix it. It's done.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Thank you. Can I have another bite?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yes.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. I'm just concerned. Director Menten mentioned Google X. Is that what
you called it?
PAUL SOLANO: Does Google X provide ADA-compliant vehicles? I've never heard of Google
X. Maybe you know something I don't. Well, given that Google X is so new, I'm going to go
ahead and change my vote to yes because we don't know. I don't know. I tried to google it on the
net, and Google didn't come up. So I'm going to be a yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, they were in Congress today.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Is that all, Director Solano?
PAUL SOLANO: That's all.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. I think there's a similarity between our vote on the buses and this,
and the correlation is this. There may be a time when an electric bus is an appropriate bus. But
right now we need buses, and we need buses that can do our job. And that doesn't happen to be
electric.
Take that same similarity to this question before us at this moment. There may be a time that
Google Waze is the appropriate way to do it. And I would probably admonish our staff that that's
something right now we should be thinking about for the next time this comes up so that we can
say, it's not quite time, or, yeah, we've actually changed our process.
But in the meantime, this is providing transit for people. And so we need to move this one
forward until there is a viable option. Let's say it requires disability services or whatever. And
then when that other option is there and viable, I think Director Menten is right on target. If
somebody else can provide it cheaper, they should do that. So that's all of my comments. Thank
you.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Hoy. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I'll be supporting this motion as I did last time. I think the 500
people who-- give or take-- who use the service have options. And this is one of those options,
and this is how they choose at this time. If there is a time when the private sector does surpass
this in reliability and efficiency, then, as Director Hoy stated, there might be a time when this
program needs to disappear and go away. I'm not sure that this time is now because there are 500
people who rely on this.
I know that some of those TNC, the Transportation Network Companies, the Ubers, Lyfts, and
companies like them, they can disappear in a heartbeat. Uber pulled out of all of Europe a while
ago. And they're inching their way back now, but that was their first quarter of profitability after
they pulled out of Europe.
So this provides some dependability that these folks or past folks and future folks depend on this
service for. So I'll be supporting that to support their reliance on this too. And when the private
sector gets up to speed on this and becomes dependable, then I'll support that. One question. Do
you know how many accessible vehicles are currently in operation in this program?
MICHAEL FORD: You can correct me, but as of October 31 I think there was 95 active
vehicles.
JEFF WALKER: Accessible.
MICHAEL FORD: Oh, accessible vehicles.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian again. I checked with the manager when this came up just
recently, and he said we don't have any accessible vehicles right now. There just isn't a need for
them.
JEFF WALKER: OK. All right. Yeah, so there's no need. But if there is a need I remember
reading earlier that we work through Enterprise, and they can call up one immediately if the
needs arise. So because of that reliability, the reliability of the length of time it's been in service
and the future, the participation now, and the low subsidy per rider, yeah, I'll be a resounding yes
on this motion also. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Matthews, you started out by saying
that the fleet of DRCOG vans were 100% accessible. I think you were implying because they can
call one up overnight and have it ready in 24 hours. And then now, when you were asked
specifically and directly, you said there are none. So the actual answer is none.

Now, when I think about things like this, I don't know how to get enrolled in a vanpool. I mean,
it's a great idea, and I could have used it. And I know plenty of people that could. I wonder if you
had 157 people in wheelchairs show up like they did here if they'd be able to accommodate them.
And it's kind of like back in 1978 when we didn't have buses that were accessible.
So for folks that may not be aware, I'll just repeat it for the sake of the record that in 1973 with
the passage of the Rehabilitation Act, all public transit agencies were to be accessible to people
in wheelchairs. And in 1978, five years later, it took Atlantis to do a major protest to stop the
entire system at Colfax and Broadway to demand that the buses be accessible.
And prior to that, the reasoning that RTD would give to why they weren't having accessible
buses was because there were no people in wheelchairs waiting to get on the bus. And why
would people in wheelchairs wait to get on a bus they can't get on? You see, this is the problem
that kind of continues today.
It happens also in our job application. It has been changed here at RTD, and I'm very proud
about that. But it happens all over the country where the job application requires a valid driver's
license, and there's no option for anything else. So many people who are blind would say, OK, I
don't drive, so I can't apply for that job.
Now, that leads me to my next question. If somebody in a wheelchair calls up DRCOG and says,
do you have any accessible vans in your vanpool and they say no, why would I even ask? It
wouldn't even occur to me that I'm going to demand you go out and fetch one overnight and
make sure it's ready for me at 8 o'clock in the morning. It doesn't occur to me. And I would
expect that doesn't occur to a lot of people. I'll be voting no, again. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think this wasn't obsolete in 2001. It was actually
it was probably pretty needed in 2001. But I do think it's obsolete now. And I don't know the
exact figures, but I'm going to make an educated guess that more than 500 people took TNC
(transportation network companies) carpools to work today.
I'm just throwing that out there. If I'm wrong, please correct me. And I say TNC. That includes
the Google Waze, which isn't technically that, but it's something akin to it. And if you look at
taxi companies, though highly government regulated-- they don't get the direct subsidy that this
does. But you can see how the position they're in in just a few short years, the people's
preference, the market preference for the TNC model. I think this is obsolete now, and if not
now, it will be soon. So I'll be a no. Thanks.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair. This vanpool does not work like a regular bus, a
regular ADA bus, or anything else. It is unique in that when a group of people live close together
or on the same route to a place of employment, they decide that they can vanpool. And it's takes
all those extra cars off the road.

This is not somebody that is going to call, dial up Uber and go to work on Uber or get their nextdoor neighbor. This is a group of cohorts who work at the same place. And if you want to change
it, you cannot pull the rug out from under these people who have relied upon this service
throughout the years. And it may be that Uber X can do it. But Uber X is subsidized by
taxpayers. And you want to say, how? Why? Well, because taxpayer money builds that road that
Uber X goes on.
So the truth of the matter is all transportation is subsidized. And what I heard staff say about
accessibility is if a group of cohorts who are working together and live along the route decide
that they want to vanpool together and one of them has a hip replacement or something else
happens to them, they just need to call DRCOG and the van will be fitted to be accessible to that
person that needs it.
So if you want to vote against this, that's fine. But please don't blame it on accessibility. Please
don't blame it on private industry. Please don't blame it on all those things. This is a program,
and yes, transportation is changing.
But you cannot and should not take this service away from people who have been using it for
years and thriving with it and also being good stewards of our air by using one vehicle to haul, I
don't know, eight people to the same place. So I will be supporting this. And if you want to make
changes in the future, now is the time to start working with DRCOG to talk about how you do
those changes. You don't just pull a rug out from people and expect them to suddenly find a way
to work. So I will be supporting this, and I will be supporting it for all of the reasons that people
have been giving to vote against it.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. As I've said in the previous two sessions, RTD
holds this vanpooling program up when they're proposing to cut fixed route service as an
alternative. And, I mean, we market that with DRCOG's assistance. And to Director Anderson's
point, the vanpool is established. It's established as a daily commute over-- it's a long-term
commitment of this pool of people. It's not an ad hoc service much the way Uber or Lyft is.
And it does show a commitment to reducing single occupant vehicles, reducing emissions. And I
think taking away something that these people have committed to would be a shame. So I'm in
support of the program. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Director Williams. Are you still with us? All right.
Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Matthews, I have a brief question for
you. You may recall our public participation last month with a woman-- I think her name is
Monica Perrit. Mr. Ford, do you recall her? She was-BRIAN MATTHEWS: I do not recall her.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Well, she was our only speaker. And she's got a lot of people with
disabilities that are living in one place, and they need to go to work at another place. And they
were asking for us to provide Access-a-Ride because it's 1/4 of a mile outside of the 3/4-mile
shadow of a fixed route. I mean, is this something they could be utilizing is the vanpool? Have
you [INAUDIBLE]?
BRIAN MATTHEWS: This is Brian speaking. Yes, I do recall her speaking. She's up in
Broomfield, and they're about 1/4 of a mile outside the area.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: I'm not sure. We can follow up on that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Well, I'm going to vote no tonight, but let me know what's going on
before the next vote.
BRIAN MATTHEWS: OK. Will do.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do appreciate the comments made by
everyone and it helps inform me relative to this program as well, which I do support. I've been
familiar with it since 2001 when I was on the DRCOG Board. So I understand it and appreciate
it. And in particular-[COUGH]
Excuse me. For the reasons expressed by Chair Hoy, and I thought and very well-stated and for
the elegant summation by Director Catlin as well, I will absolutely be a yes vote in support of
our continued participation in the program. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Well, I haven't said anything. See. I was waiting to be
last. But if you want to call for the question. No, I wanted to say that I've supported this program
over the last eight years. And I understand a need, and I don't want to be one of those that pulls
the rug under someone and says, no, you can no longer have a ride.
But I do encourage staff to start looking into alternatives and something different because now I
mean we're providing this service. However, it's also costing us an additional 3/4 of a million
dollars. So I just want to make sure that we start to look at other ways, be more innovative. Let's
not wait until things get out of hand where everyone is upset. We have to start looking at things
now for the future.
And I really do encourage you all to start looking for next year, you know, what can you do or
working with DRCOG. I will be supporting this as I have in the last eight years. But I do hope

that from what you've heard from this Board tonight from Director Hoy, Director Anderson,
Director Catlin, that you really take that into consideration and start to work on something as
soon as possible.
MICHAEL FORD: All right. I appreciate the comment. I just want to assure the Board and you
that we have been working and we are working. We take this issue very seriously, and we're
looking at innovative ways in which we can deliver service and meeting a variety of needs. So I
just want to re-emphasize that.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. So let's go to the vote. The mover was Director Broom,
and the second was Director Anderson.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KATE WILLIAMS: I am.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KATE WILLIAMS: Chairwoman? Chair Deadwyler?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Williams, are you there?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am here, yeah. I would like to vote in favor.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Oh, my gosh. I called upon you, but you were gone. And I think I
heard you say that this was an affirmative vote for you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. We've taken it to the vote. So I'm sorry we won't be able to
hear you comment. You missed out, girl. So we'll catch you next time.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all right. I'm good.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. So we have 11 yes, three no. So this will go on our
recommended action next week. All right. We have some updates, and let's get to those. Our first
update is contracted fixed route quarterly performance stats. Take it away.
MICHAEL FORD: We do have a number of updates in the packet. I know the Finance
Committee went in front of us, and they did address some of the issues. But at this time, unless
you want us to go through each one, we could do that or just entertain concerns or questions as a
result of the report.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Well, I'd rather entertain the questions. So we do have one
Director. Director Folska, go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Mr. Ford, can you talk about the increased
ridership on the A Line and the impact that's going to have on adding more cars to the line? And
how many more cars can we actually sustain?
MICHAEL FORD: We're going to be looking to add a married pair starting in mid-January. I'm
looking at Allen just to make sure I got that right. We are running approximately 23,000 folks
daily on the A Line. So when we, in mid-January add the married pair, we'll be at capacity in
terms of the number of people that we can carry. But we are working on that. We've been
working on that for a while with DTO, DTP. And we expect to be able to deliver increased
service by mid-January.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So would be adding one car or two?
MICHAEL FORD: A married pair, so-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't hear that part. And is that the capacity then?
Because I think that the stations determine how many cars you can have.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah. We'll be at full capacity given the configuration of the station. The
only other option would be to run additional headways is my understanding.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And what is your expectation? I mean, what would the number be that
would be the total capacity with the additional two cars?
MICHAEL FORD: I'll get that information in just a second.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of personal privilege. Just acknowledgment for a point
of personal privilege.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Oh, go ahead, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Chair Anderson is ready to leave this room for the last time, and I stand in
respect as a point of personal privilege.
LARRY HOY: They're talking about you.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And my apologies to Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: We're going to cheer when you leave, Larry.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So, Mr. Ford, if I could redirect my question. What is the total capacity
once you add the additional cars, just in general numbers right now? We're at almost
[INAUDIBLE].
MICHAEL FORD: I'm going to defer this question to Allen Miller, our Deputy AGM (Assistant
General Manager).
ALLEN MILLER: Director Folska, this is Allen Miller, Deputy AGM for Commuter Rail. We
would increase our capacity by approximately 400 seated and standing passengers per trip. It
would basically double the capacity of the A line. We would go up to approximately 36,000 to
38,000 potential passengers a day.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. That's wonderful. Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Any-- Director Williams, do you have any questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Thank you, Madam Chair. I do not.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Then moving right along to our next-- I see no others in the
queue. So we're moving over onto special services, third quarter.
MICHAEL FORD: Again, we'll take questions unless you would like us to go through the
packet. We have Brian up here that can answer questions for you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, seeing no one in the queue. I don't have any questions. So let's
just go on to the next one. Customer complaints. Customer complaint analysis.
MICHAEL FORD: Again, we'll defer to questions, and we have Carolyn up here to help sort out
any questions or concerns.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: So do any Directors have any questions regarding the rest of the
updates that is listed on here on this sheet? If not, let's move to other matters. Any other matters?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chairwoman Deadwyler. Excuse me. Gina, while you're here I
wanted to pass along a compliment in terms of the service that we provided and you and our
drivers provided. And that was on the Sunday after Thanksgiving.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

CHUCK SISK: There were lines to go to Boulder. And I had several people say they thought
they would not get to Boulder for the next three or four hours. Now, there may be some people
who would say that's a good thing. But a lot of us like to go to Boulder and Louisville.
Having said that, bus after bus after bus showed up to take care of those people that were
standing in line to allow them to get back on the AB to Broomfield, Louisville, et al. And I just
wanted to compliment you because I heard very, very positive comments about the anticipatory
reaction from RTD. So thank you very much, and thank you for being in line. I know you also
scheduled when CU lets out. Be working on that the next two weeks.
GINA CALLAHAN: Yes, we will.
CHUCK SISK: But, again, it's so nice to hear those kind of comments, and you need to hear that
as the person that really makes those decisions. So thank you very much.
GINA CALLAHAN: Thank you very much. It's a great team that we have.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I would just like to ask what is the status this week in regards to the
commuter rail and the discussions? I did see an update today through Zach Urban, a City
Councilor, very short message that I think was sent to the City Manager. But can you just give us
where are we at right now?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Director Menten. So we are focused. Our main priority right now
is working with Denver Transit Partners to put together a plan that we'll be successful with that
the FRA (Federal Railroad Administration) will approve. We'll submit that plan on Friday. We
had another meeting today with FRA headquarters that was very productive. So we had members
of the DTP team that were actually at headquarters today.
I had a call on Friday with one of the senior leaders of Fluor who said let's talk to the FRA again.
And this person happens to live out in the DC area and wanted to take advantage of another
meeting with FRA to show them the draft that's in progress as of yesterday. And so today's
meeting, there were two representatives from Denver Transit Partners in Washington, DC, with
the FRA headquarters team. And myself and Henry Stopplecamp called into that.
That was about an hour-and-a-half meeting, and it was really a continuation of the meeting we
had I think last Tuesday. And so we received some very good information from the Federal
Railroad Administration in terms of some of their remarks on what they've seen from the draft
that we've already submitted to them. And I would say, I would use the term-- It wasn't the draft
plan as it exists today. It was really excerpts from that draft, the main points and the main topics.
And I really want to commend the FRA for the time that they're spending with us and with
Denver Transit Partners and working with us so that we can all be successful. I believe they
pointed out some very good things to us today that helps us see that roadmap for what their

expectation is. And I am very committed to putting together that plan with DTP, and we're
confident we're going to be successful.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So they're responding to a draft.
DAVE GENOVA: Essentially more bullet points and some very brief text descriptions, not
really the draft report. Just some main things that we pulled out of it.
NATALIE MENTEN: And those bullet points that they're responding to, that was really
highlighted and in their hands about when?
DAVE GENOVA: Yesterday, I believe, we gave that to them.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. OK. All right. Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Menten. If there are no other matters-- going
once. Going twice. The next meeting date for this committee, Customer Service and Ops, will be
January 15, 2019. This meeting is now adjourned.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

