RTD Study Session 07-07-20
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everyone. I would like to call the study session
for Tuesday, July 7th, 2020 to order. We are convened as of 5:32 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I
would respectfully ask everyone in the meeting to ensure that your phones are muted and that
your ringers are set to silent.
I'd like to do a safety moment, and what I'd like to share with you is that there is a growing body
of evidence that suggests that asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic COVID-19 cases are a
primary driver of the virus spread. This silent spread is responsible for perhaps as many as 50%
of new cases, and individuals can shed the virus for up to five days before experiencing
symptoms. So with this new information, it reinforces our need to adhere to frequently washing
your hands, practicing physical distancing-- that's six feet at a minimum-- to minimize your time
spent in poorly ventilated indoor public areas, especially [AUDIO OUT] if people are present.
And most of all, wear a mask at all times in public spaces, such as in office spaces and grocery
stores and while using public transportation. We cannot emphasize these things enough. This is
for all of our safety, so thank you for that.
Our agenda item this evening is mid-term financial plan, Reimagine RTD, and facing financial
reality. So that is first on our agenda tonight, and we will hear a presentation from our CFO,
Heather McKillop, and our Director of Special Projects, Bruce Abel, about RTD's mid-term
financial plan. Bruce and Heather, please proceed when you're ready.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madame Chair. This is Heather McKillop, CFO and
Assistant General Manager for Finance and Administration. Because you don't have the
presentation up on the screen, I am going to direct you towards page numbers, which are located
in the lower left hand corner as we work through the presentation.
I am going to be talking to you about the first half of the presentation, and then Bruce is going to
cover the second half of the presentation. And then we'll have time for question and answers
after that. The purpose of the presentation tonight is to really recap where we've been over the
last couple months, and where we're headed over the next three to six months. Very busy time
ahead of us.
As we start talking about where we're headed, you'll see that a lot of the activities that we're
doing in different parts of the organization are all intertwined and interdependent upon each
other. And we'll touch on that as we go forward. So slide three just reiterates, again, what we do,
and we move people.
But I'm going to go to slide four where we just want to talk, again, about how this is a
continually flexible and changing environment that we're in right now. But keeping that in mind,
we're continuing to look at how to maintain that flexibility to meet the needs of our customers.
How do we fulfill the mission that was on the previous page in a cost effective, efficient
manager-- in a manner. sorry. I'll try to talk better tonight.

How do we look at all of our processes and procedures, looking at expenditures and revenue
sources, and how do we continually advise the board with the most current relevant information?
And how do we monitor that information and adjust our financial planning accordingly? And so
what we're going to walk you through is how we plan on doing that over the next few months
and into the future.
On the next page, which is slide five, we talk about the challenges ahead. My major portion of
this discussion is about the budget monitoring and maintaining that flexibility. But at the same
time, we're looking at balancing our services and resources, both people and money.
We're looking at service and how we respond to the capacity reductions due to COVID-19 and
our ridership. And then looking at, as we'll discuss later, examining all of our organizational
processes and resources and how do we address those. And as I mentioned previously in the
previous slide, one of the big things that we'll be showing is the interdependency of all of these.
How the system optimization plan feeds the mid-term financial plan. How we need the outcome
and results of the internal task force that Bruce will be-- is working on and will be talking about
later, and how those also feed into the mid-term financial plan. And then ultimately, how do we
develop a 2021 budget from that mid-term financial plan? We do have a calendar attached that
Bruce is going to go over later so that you can see how all those pieces fit together, and when
we'll be discussing those with the board and other stakeholders moving forward.
So on slide seven, we just talk a little bit about how employees, all of our expenditures, and the
amount of assets that we need are all driven by service levels. And service levels drive those
costs. So depending on what level of service we operate at depends on how many employees we
need, how much we have to spend, and what type of assets and how those assets-- again, sorry.
Can't talk-- perform in delivering service to us.
So as revenues decrease, service will decrease. And as revenues increase, service may or may not
increase. But what we're trying to get across here is that service levels are driven by available
resources, and the amount of resources needed is driven by our service levels.
So in the 2021-- next slide, slide eight-- 2021 pre-COVID forecast, and I want to say these next
few slides, they're in thousands. So that's $960 million, not $960,000 that I'm showing on this
page. I apologize for that. We somehow didn't get the set of slides that have that notation on
there, but I will update it for the formal packet.
So we estimated pre-COVID, so this was our forecast that we had from the Leeds School of
Business for last September, that we had used for a 2020 budget and also 2021 through 2026
March workshop that we had presented. We estimated $960 million dollars in revenues, with the
bulk of that, as you can see in red, coming from sales and use tax. Then the next largest amount
was fare box revenue. Then we had our traditional grants that we get, mostly formula, and then
other, such as advertising fees, et cetera.
On the next slide is our 2021 post-COVID forecast. Now this is based on the May Leeds
financial information and forecasts that they gave us. So as we footnoted here and the

conversation we had last week, that May Leeds forecast is going to change after we send them
the May actual sales and use tax information. We are expecting to get that actual information on
Thursday of this week, and then we will get that off to Leeds.
And then our expectation is they will be able to turn that around and give us an updated forecast
the week of July 20th. But these were the numbers pre-- for the May forecasts. So pre the May
actuals.
We were estimating $735, almost $736 million in total revenue, so a significant decrease in
revenues. Again, still the largest share being sales and use tax. Then fare box revenue grants and
other-- grants and other not changing significantly.
On page 10, we compare then the 2021 pre- and then the post-COVID forecast. And, again,
comparing the number we received for the September 2019 forecast against the May 2020
forecast. And you can see, as we have been sharing with you the last a month or two, we had a
significant anticipation in revenue change, particularly in the sales and use tax sales tax, but also
in the fare box revenue.
As I mentioned, we'll be getting the May actuals on Thursday, sending those to Leeds, and they
will provide just an updated forecast. However, it is going to probably take more time to see how
the fare box revenues pan out. We just started redoing the front door boarding, which then
allowed us to do fare box, fare revenue collections. And as you can imagine with ridership being
down, fare box is also down considerably.
But it will take a period of time for us to be able to determine what those revenues will look like
into the future. At this time, we've estimated for 2021 through 2026 that they will be down and it
will take us a while to recover. Particularly in 2021, we've estimated about a 20% decrease from
what we originally had estimated in 2021. Again, time will tell since we just started collecting
fares again on July 1st.
On page 11, what we talked about here is what our departmental budgets look like based on the
2020 pre-COVID changes that we're anticipating will happen as a result of the examination that's
going on within RTD at this time. But I wanted to give you a flavor of what those numbers
looked like prior to any reductions going on. Again, this is the numbers that we showed you back
in March at the March workshop, at the end of March, as we move forward.
Now, these are before we made adjustments for the amended budget that you'll be seeing next
week on our July 14th finance and administration committee. Again, just to give you an idea of
the sense of percentages for each area of the RTD. The next page shows the same information,
only in graphical form.
And one of the things I just wanted to point out to you was if you look at the dark green box
which represents interest expense at 18.72%, and rail operations, which is in purple at 19%,
those amounts are almost identical. Interest expense, we're spending about $170.3 million, and
we were anticipated to spend about $172.9 million on rail operations. So only a couple million
dollars difference.

That interest expense is fixed. It's not something that we can impact very easily. We've done a lot
of refinancings over the last several years. We've maxed out most of that, so there's not a lot of
flexibility in there.
And that's a cost we're going to have to deal with and won't be able to impact very significantly
in the future. But I just wanted to give you an order of magnitude, because it is significant that
we're spending-- we're anticipating to spend almost as much on interest expense as we spend on
all of our rail operations currently. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Bruce to talk about
the principles and process of moving forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bruce, before you start, could the person with the phone number
ending in 7076 please identify yourself?
JULIE KIRK: Sorry. I was trying to find my mute. This is Julie Kirk, Business Program
Manager in Rail Operations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you so much. All right. Bruce, go ahead.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Madame Chair. I just wanted to pick up where Heather left off and
really move forward and talk about some of the principles and processes about moving forward.
So I'd like to move to page 14 if we might, and just wanted to provide a quick update on where
we are with the COVID Fiscal Response Task Force.
Our activities began June 9th when we asked each of the AGMs to provide a self-assessment of
their departments to identify areas where they could reduce what I would refer to as corporate
overhead. We realized that the board's draft guiding principles for budget reductions are still in
draft form and that they'll be discussed next week, but we have been using them to help guide the
task force work, given the short timeline available.
And I just wanted to make reference to that. We are using those guidelines as we evaluate the
self-assessment that the AGMs have provided. Those self-assessments were turned in on June the
19th, and in the two weeks since then, we have been reviewing those self-assessments.
The reason I bring up the Task Force-- excuse me, the Guiding Principle, we are especially
looking at Guiding Principle Number Two that's shown on this slide. Because our mission, as
was pointed out earlier, is moving people. So we consider Number Two an especially important
Guiding Principle that we want to make sure that our budget reductions align with our mission of
moving people. So service reductions should be minimized in order to minimize the impact to
our customers.
So really, one of the primary tasks of the Task Force is to take a look at our corporate overhead
to see how we might reduce our corporate overhead. Some people have said that staff has grown
overly large in the last few years in areas not related to our core mission. That may be right, so
we want to make sure that we're taking a hard look at our corporate overhead.

We also want to look at creative approaches to service delivery, and we'll discuss that more in a
few minutes. I don't want to go through all of the guiding principles, because, again, you'll be
discussing them next week. But I do want to share an example of how we're using the draft
guidelines to help guide the work of the Task Force.
So let's go ahead and go to-- flip forward two pages to 16. And you will see that we have
expanded the Task Force membership since our first conversation. Since then, we have asked
Zamy Silva, our Senior Manager of Civil Rights, and Raquel McMurray, our Senior Manager of
HR to join us because we want to make sure that we are looking at our organizational overhead
through the appropriate lenses of Civil Rights, EEO, and good HR practices.
We have also included legal resources. Melanie Snyder, the General Counsel, will be our point
person. But we'll also have other folks from the legal team, because we will be addressing issues
related to both non-represented and represented employees as part of the process.
So the next page, actual expenditures per passenger boarding. Some folks have said, well, why
have we put this in here? Just included it as an example of what we have seen in RTD over the
last several years.
As we've been opening lines, and you can see that in 2016, we opened the A line, the B line, the
Flat Iron Flyer. 2017 we opened the R line. 2019, we had the G line, and we're expecting the N
line later this year.
So as we've been opening lines, we've seen our cost per passenger boarding rising from just
under $5 in 2015 to just over $6 in 2019. So this is just an area that we want to be cognizant of,
because we want to try to manage ridership growth but doing so in a cost efficient manner. And
so this is just an example of the kinds of things we'll keep our eye on.
So now if we flip over to next steps, the next page, really want to spend most of our time talking
about the calendar. We've included the calendar, because as has Heather mentioned earlier, we
really want to show the integration of the activities of the midterm financial plan, the COVID
task-- the Fiscal Response Task Force, or the Task Force, and the System Optimization Plan. We
also wanted to show that we've got a lot to do in a short period of time.
And this is really reinforced this year because of the funding challenges of the COVID impacts.
But we also want to reinforce that this is going to be a living document, and we're going to be as
flexible as we can. Because we're going to need to adapt as information changes, as Heather
mentioned earlier.
But resources-- the available resources drive the level of service that we can provide and the
level of service drives our expense budget, as we discussed earlier. And we're using the System
Optimization Plan to design not only a mid-term, 2023 through 2026 System Optimization Plan,
but also a COVID restraint service plan for implementation in 2021.
So it didn't start out that way when Reimagine started, but that's our new reality, just as it is with
transit agencies everywhere. So we're looking at both a 2021 COVID restrained service plan as

well as the 2023 through 2026, more of the original System Optimization Plan that people
probably had in mind when we started this process. So the service plan has to take into
consideration factors like the available resources, as Heather mentioned, the impact of social
distancing on vehicle capacity, where our ridership has actually been generated over the past few
weeks, how can we continue to serve those that have relied and used our services for essential
jobs over the last few weeks.
And I don't want to harp on the capacity constraints, but it's very real. Because with our vehicles
being constrained to approximately a third of their normal capacity, that means it's going to take
three times the resources to move the same number of people if we follow the social and physical
distancing. Just to put it into example. For example, on the 15L on Colfax, if it was running 15
minute frequencies.
Today, with social physical distancing, we'd have to run a bus every five minutes to provide the
same capacity. One third of the level. So we'd have to run three times the service to move the
same number of people on a route where we have seen ridership holding up.
So those are just the interrelated issues and how the midterm financial plan, the COVID fiscal
response task force, and the System Optimization Plan are going to be working together. And I
want to just highlight a couple of dates on here, because there are a lot of dates. And, again, it
reflects a lot of work that's got to take place in the next few months.
Heather already mentioned that we expect the May actual sales tax figures later this week. That
will help us do get a bit of a reality check on the most recent forecast that came in from the
Leeds School of Business. And hopefully, we'll get another forecast from the Leeds School of
Business later in July. And, again, we're going to try to be as flexible as we can be to respond to
these changes in forecasts as they present themselves to us.
July 15 and 16, we've got the Reimagine Advisory Committee and the Technical Committees. At
this committee, we're going to be introducing the concept that we briefly referred to a few
moments ago, alternative service delivery models and partnerships. So this is an area where
we're going to be introducing the alternative service delivery models and the partnerships, and
then subsequently we will be having these same discussions with the board in the week of the
July 28 and August 4th study sessions.
Flipping to the next page would reinforce a couple of additional dates, because they really relate
to the service planning process, both the run boards and the System Optimization Plan. So, again,
I want to reiterate that it's sort of an iterative process. Funding drives the level of service.
As funding forecasts change, we're going to be as flexible as we can be. But at some point, we
need to say, this is the revenue forecast that we're going to use to develop the run board. Because
the run board for January is going to have to be taken to the public in September to be socialized
and come to the board in October to be implemented in January.
And so not only does that run board take place in January, but it takes-- it's sort of the basis of
the 2021 through 2026 mid-term financial plan. And it provides the basis upon which the growth

takes place over the years. So I just wanted to point out that in October-- well, in September,
we're talking about socializing a January run board. In October, we're talking about presenting a
January run board, and late in October, asking the board's approval of a January run board.
And the January run board would essentially be a COVID System Optimization Plan. We would
also be working on the longer term System Optimization Plan of 2023ish, but we do need to have
the COVID plan adopted by the board in October. So that means we're going to have to make the
determination. What funding forecast are we going to use to put the final service plan together in
time to take out to the public in September?
Also on the timeline, in October we have the draft budget. Again, sort of concurrent with the
conversation about the January run board and the approval of the January run board. In
November, we have the hoped for adoption of the 2021 budget. And we have also included the
date of December the 15th, which is the last possible day for budget adoption of the 2020-2021
budget. So, again, just wanted to show how some of these activities are interrelated.
We've got the midterm financial plan determining financial resources, helping to drive the
service planning process, which really drives both Reimagine System Optimization Plan, as well
as the January 2021 run board. And all of those are going to be fed by the task force, which is
going to be seeking to maximize cost reductions in our overhead so that we can minimize cost
reductions in our service delivery. So with that, Heather and I would open it up to questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. What I'd like to do now is call on directors in
alphabetical order to ask whether there are any questions or discussion. So please, have your
questions ready. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, Madame Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions, Madame Chair. Thank you. I actually did appreciate the
graphical presentation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I just make a comment. I was glad that Bruce, in particular, talked
about the idea that they're going to be bringing in the Reimagine pieces. Because the one slide
sounds pretty unequivocal that there's just this like formulaic-- and I don't want to deny that that
there's not this pretty strong relationship between services and revenues.

But that you can, at least around the edges, bend that a little bit and in that way, as we hope to
see, not just go to service reductions. Looking at those partnerships and creative efforts, et cetera.
So thank you, Madame Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. I thought there was going to be somebody between us. Just to be
clear on the numbers, the pre-COVID and post-COVID 2021 numbers are are those the middle
range numbers-HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the-LYNN GUISSINGER: --of the forecast?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry. Madame Chair, this is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the pre-COVID numbers, the September forecast, are the middle
range. That's what we had used originally. And then the post-COVID, the May forecast, is based
on the worst case scenario. That's what the board had decided to use at that time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So-- and you're using middle and worse, because you budgeted
initially with the middle and then with the worst at that point. Does that explain why we talked
before about there being about $109, $110 million dollar deficit? And these numbers look bigger
than that. Is that the explanation for that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, because these were not-- remember, Leeds-- the number you saw
recently were their June forecast. And these are their May forecasts that they gave us in May. SoLYNN GUISSINGER: These don't show the most recent changes. I got it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's all I have right now. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do have one. I do have one more question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bruce, thanks-- both of you, thanks for this good explanation. Bruce, you
mentioned a 2021 COVID SLT, and then there'd be the 2023. Is that-- are you kind of picking a
number at this point? And when you say 2023, is that a-- is that sort of an ongoing decision how

soon that would be put in place as you do the run boards? How does that work, and how is that
number specifically answers that [AUDIO OUT]?
BRUCE ABEL: I think I chose the number 2023 in order to be a little optimistic. Obviously,
how we grow from the 2021 run board is going to be dependent on, how does the economy open
up and how do revenues, especially sales tax as our dominant form of revenue, how did they
increase and provide the ability for us to grow our service level?
But really the-- so that will determine the timing. But I guess really the point I was trying to
make is that when we started the process, we were looking at having an SOP, System
Optimization Plan, that would reflect the community's desires in terms of the balance between
different approaches to resource allocation. That still remains our goal. We just had to backup for
a moment to address our current reality of COVID.
But we don't want to let go of that target for later in the MTFP period. Does that make sense?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep. Thank you very much.
BRUCE ABEL: Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. If that's all you have, thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing for me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Nothing, but I wanted to thank you both for a very clear presentation. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I believe Director Mihalik's not on our line. Director
Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madame Chair. I, too, express my appreciation for a
clear and cogent presentation, and I don't have any additional questions at this time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I have a question, I guess, about the cost per-- I'm sorry, spend per
passenger. That's only operational costs. Is that only operational? Does that include capital?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. That is correct. It does not include capital costs.
JEFF WALKER: OK. So I like that slide, because I think that goes to one-- I think it enhances or
helps to make clear one of our goals that we that I typically see, increased ridership and what it
actually cost to bring riders aboard. So I really-- I was really interested in that slide. Thank you.
That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions. Good presentation. Thank you both.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, thank you, Madame Chair. I also am interested in the slide that
Director Walker referred, to the actual expenditures per passenger boarding. Because I think we
need to socialize the fact more that those have gone up, I don't know, 40% or something in the
last five years.
And you would think that as the system grew, as we added more lines, that our spend per
passenger boarding would go down. As we finished those lines, that our spend would go down.
And I don't see that happening.
And I don't know that we are conveying to our constituents the fact that we spend, without
capital, we spend $6 plus per boarding. And that, I think we need to look at that and everybody
needs to look at that as we move forward. So, again, I was really, really struck by that slide, and I
am going to try and have some further conversation about it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Just a couple of questions for me. The first one is, I
know that the May forecast numbers will be coming out this week, and so Leeds will be updating
the formula for us. Will you be getting that to us soon after, Ms. McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So I'm anticipating that we will get that to them on Thursday or
Friday of this week. Once we receive the information, we need to make sure we have the
complete data, including any collections that are attributable to April. That's going to help them
do their analysis.
And then they said they will turn it around as quickly as possible. I'm assuming a week for that,
so that on the week of the 20th is when I would expect to get that turned around and be able to
present that information to the board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. And then Bruce, just for clarification on-- I also
really like this actual expenditure per passenger boarding. What is the passenger per boarding for
our Access-a-Ride? I know it's extraordinarily higher than this, but do you have a number for
that as well?

BRUCE ABEL: I'm going from memory from a couple of years ago. It was up in the 40s range.
But I believe that Jeff Becker will be presenting the family of services report at the Operations
Committee next week and be able to take a look at that exactly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you so much. All right. I'm not hearing any other
discussion. Everybody seems to be OK, unless there is somebody who has one more question
they'd like to ask. We'll move to our next item.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I do have one quick comment. This is Director
Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. On the internal COVID-19 Financial task force, one of the-- in
terms of representation that I think is missing from this group is someone from the Transit Equity
Group. I just think it would be really important for us as we are looking at and evaluating
programs, processes, and projects that we look at that from our lens of equity. And so to suggest
and recommend that we have someone from that department who can represent that lens. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BRUCE ABEL: Madame Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please. Go ahead, Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: Yes. Thank you, Director Lewis. I think that is one of the reasons I agree with
you entirely one of the reasons why we asked Zamy Silva from the Civil Rights Group to join us
to make sure that we consider issues of Title IX, EEO, Civil Rights. Want to make sure that we
look at things through that lens as well, so thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Bruce. I appreciate that. If my memory serves me
correctly-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
OK. Thank you. If my memory serves me correctly, and I love and appreciate that Zamy is on
this task force, that there this-- that a lot of the work that she and her team engage in are really
for folks internally, so our employees. And so the other aspect that I was hoping that we might
bring from an Operations and Customer Service lens and from title IX that you spoke about is
that equity lens and that representation.

And so I think those two are a bit different. And so I'm happy to talk with you offline, but I do
think that those two-- and they're also situated differently within the agency. And so I think it's
important to pull apart that distinction.
BRUCE ABEL: That'd be great idea. I'd love to talk with you offline. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Did someone else have a comment?
SHELLEY COOK: I did, Madame Chair. Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Yeah. I Just clarified with Heather via a message that one thing
to know about the per boarding cost for the G line and A line is that those included the payments
made to-- this is a P3 that was part of Penta P. Yeah.
Anyway, that includes the payments that are made to the operator over time. And in some ways,
and my understanding-- and, of course, everybody can correct me on this one-- but you're in
some ways building in some of the capital recoupment for what they've brought to the table and
so forth. So anyway, that may be as well one piece to consider as you look at those numbers
from year to year, especially the years 2016 and 2019 where you're where you saw a pretty good
jump.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Hearing no other directors other matters. Before
we convene into executive session scheduled for tonight, are there any other matters to discuss?
JUDY LUBOW: I have. This is Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. I-- we got a couple of days ago, we got a few letters from
drivers and the union talking about their concern about lack of safety. Because we went forward
with front door boarding and fare collection prior to all the buses having the operator protective
shields up. And I-- I read these letters with a heavy heart. I'm sure they concern all of us in terms
of the safety of our drivers.
And I just wanted to say that I personally am not happy with the fact that we felt that it was a-that we needed to go forward without having a majority of our buses protected and our drivers
protected with a protective shield. And I personally, I would urge us to be as absolutely quick as
possible getting all the buses up with those shields. That it is just not acceptable to be going
forward without them.
And that's my personal opinion. Thank you. That's the issue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you so much, Director Lubow. Any other
matters to come before the board?

SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madame Chair. I would just like to underscore Director
Lubow's sentiments about the protections for our workers. I know many of you all received a
number of communications from your constituents, as did I. And I do think it's really important
as well as our operators that we do protect them. And I, similar to Director Lubow, am quite
disappointed that we didn't have those protections in place prior to re-instituting the rig or front
door boarding. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you,
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, Doug Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madame Chair. I just wondered if I might impose
upon either General Manager Ballard or Assistant General Manager Ford to give us an update.
Because obviously, we've had several directors raise questions about this. And yes, there have
been a number of emails.
And I know that we have explained in the past the reason for not being able to have all of the
guards, face guard things in place is because we were unable to use outside shops to fabricate
those, because there was an objection raised as to sending that work outside of the RTD. And
instead, forcing us to use our own machine shop, which, obviously, put a burden on that shop
and delayed the fabrication of those units.
And as a result, we then made available the plastic face shields for all operators to use. And I'm
wondering if either Mr. Ford or Mr. Ballard might give us an update on those items of
information. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Ballard?
MICHAEL FORD: Madame Chair, this is Michael Ford.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, go ahead Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. I appreciate the comments. We have been working with the union.
We've been provided additional resources and people wanting to work to help expedite the
barriers that need to be put on the buses.
We did receive some additional equipment, too, that would help expedite that as well. So we are
currently working very diligently on getting the barriers up, along with continued PPE and also
face shield coverings that have been ordered. Some that are being-- that are more substantial than
others in the past.

Again, along with the PPEs and other things, we've also been giving our passengers masks and
sanitizers as well on our routes, trying to help with that as well. And we continue to do
everything we can to make sure our drivers are protected, that they have the proper equipment,
and that we address any concerns that they may have. So I have been monitoring that very
closely.
And I feel that we're making headway. Obviously, we want to get the barriers up as quickly as
possible. But, again, we are providing additional equipment or shields or anything else that may
help the driver in the situation so they are feeling protected. So happy to answer any more
questions, but it's been an ongoing effort. And we're working very diligently on this issue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ford, if I might ask. At the last meeting, you had mentioned
that it would take another 6,000 hours to retrofit every bus. Has that number come down in terms
of getting buses equipped with these Plexiglas?
MICHAEL FORD: I believe the numbers have come down. I don't have the exact number. I can
get that for you. If Mr. Worthen's on, if he has an update, I'll let him speak to that. But if not, I'll
definitely get an update number on the hours that are left to complete the task.
FRED WORTHEN: Madame Chair, this is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: So our-- the actual production time, there's no way to actually bring down
how much time it takes to produce things. We have to cut the Plexiglas shields-- they're like
poly-carbonate shields, not Plexiglas, on our jet cutter. And we do only-- we can only do one of
those at a time. But we have had people that have been stepping up with the installation
processes.
We have managed to figure out ways to reduce the amount of time that it takes to install things,
so we're doing a little better on the installation side. But the production side, there's really not a
way to expedite that particular process itself. But we have already equipped all but a couple of
our articulate coaches with poly-carbonate shields. And I believe the last of those are being
installed today.
We are going to begin the production on the GILLIG 40 foot fleet next, which is the majority of
our coaches. We have our resources lined up. We're going to try and get a little bit ahead on
production this week. And then we'll start doing installations on the 40 footer fleet later this
week.
So it's moving along pretty well, and the teams that have been working on it have been staying
extra long days for us. The Friday before last, actually, I walked the floor, and we have folks that
stayed-- normally they'd get off at 2:00 o'clock. They stayed all the way til 4:30 to keep the
production line rolling.

And they've been doing that on a regular basis. They're really committed to trying to get this
done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Any other matters from any other board
members?
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, go ahead, Ms. Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hi. Thank you, I'd like to mention that I think all of the directors have
gotten a number of emails, letters, whatever from constituents that are concerned about the front
door boarding. And many of those did not identify themselves by district or by address. They just
expressed their concern.
I personally took the time to answer every one that I got, and then I forwarded them to Director
Lewis. Because I know that she is deeply involved in this situation. So if there was any
misunderstanding about that, I'd like to go on the record now that my intent was good, that I just
take the time to address all those people, and that I did forward those directly to Director Lewis.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams.
BOB BROOM: Madame Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Mr. Broom. Please.
BOB BROOM: I wonder if we could get an idea of how much per month going without fares
was costing the district, and how that compares to the increase in sales tax information that we've
just gotten from the state. So that we could judge-- it sounds to me like we don't have 10% of the
fleet retrofitted yet, and it's probably going to be another 90 days before we do have most of the
fleet retrofitted.
And I don't know whether this includes the buses used by our contractors or not. It's just all very
hazy, the information that we have on this. And each time we ask, we get this, we're working on
this really hard. And the problem is we can't get the material, or whatever the case might be. But
we should have answers to all these questions by now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Madame Chair? This is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Mr. Worthen. Please.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes. So part of the delay on getting started was getting the materials that we
need to actually do installation. We have now received all the poly-carbonate that we need to

actually complete installation. And the numbers that I had given to you were for our fixed route
contractors as well as our directly operated services.
So we're talking about complete installation of all fixed route services in the 6,000 hour range.
And it will probably come down a little bit. I haven't talked to my crew about how much they've
reduced the actual installation component. As I said, the production component, though, the
hours that we projected will stay pretty much the same.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Ms McKillop, do you want to take a shot at the
question about how much this is costing per month? The first part of Mr. Broom's question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure, and I can send the detail to you, but it's approximately $13
million a month. So April, May, and June, and we actually lost a little more than that just due to
refunds that we issued since we weren't having-- since people have bought monthly passes, et
cetera, and we weren't offering service. So that's been about $30, $40 million.
And that's just on the months we didn't charge. That doesn't include the amount of revenue we've
lost just because of a reduction in riders. But I can get that information to you in writing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Broom, does that answer your question?
BOB BROOM: Yes, it does. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Any other matters to come before the
board? All right. Thank you.
What I would like before-- let's see. The next item on our agenda is an executive session. So
what I'd like to do is ask only the board members to stay on line and thank everyone else for
participating in the special board meeting.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Director Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I-- before we do closing the meeting, we haven't yet voted on the
[AUDIO OUT] and the four agenda items and whether we approve going into a closed meeting
to discuss these items. I do have a problem [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. So why don't we do this. Why don't I call the executive
session, and then we can discuss it in the-- what I'm going to be doing. And then if you want to
have a discussion, then we can talk about that.

But I need to-- Ms. McManus, as I move forward, that we would close out the study session first,
correct?
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, this is Menten. I just want to [AUDIO OUT]. What I would like to
do is make [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Can you say that again?
NATALIE MENTEN: Because I feel it is appropriate, especially since item one is [AUDIO
OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Direct Menten, you're breaking up.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. You're totally cutting out, Director Menten. Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madame Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: What I'm-DOUG TISDALE: Director Tisdale, point of order.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, I believe that Director Menten's point is well taken on one thing,
and that is that it is required that in the open meeting, we actually have a motion to proceed into
executive session. And that motion will succeed if two thirds of the members of the body
present-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: --vote in the affirmative. But that actually has to be done in the open meeting,
and it has to articulate what the subject of the executive session will be. Assuming that there is
an affirmative vote on that motion, then it would be appropriate to go into the executive session.
But the motion itself would give Director Menten and/or anyone else the opportunity to speak
objections to all or part of the executive session. So I think it's just the way it was phrased, it
might have been misunderstood. I think what you meant to say-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. It might.
DOUG TISDALE: --and what I understood was-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

DOUG TISDALE: --that we would first have a motion, articulate the elements for the executive
session, then have discussion on that motion. Then following the vote, either proceed into
executive session or not. Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. So if I might read the introduction into the
executive session. Then, Director Menten, you are more than welcome to comment on this, if I
might.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, Madame Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. So the next item on our agenda is an executive
session for the purpose of receiving legal advice from our new General Counsel, Melanie
Snyder, regarding specific legal issues listed. And as you know, Melanie joined us earlier last
month and has been participating in our remote board and committee meetings. She's also had
the opportunity to speak with several of you on specific issues.
Now based on that, I asked Melanie to provide us with her legal advice on specific issues we've
noticed on the agenda. And based on the observations she has made and given her objective
perspective coming into this role with fresh eyes, and because I wanted to give her the
opportunity to provide candid legal advice and also preserve the board's attorney client privilege,
I asked her that we convene an executive session as allowed by the Open Meetings Law.
And I believe this will also give us the opportunity to ask her follow up questions. But to be
clear, we'll not be discussing items other than the legal issues that have been noticed. And to that
extent, any issue that comes up during the executive session that is not related to this legal
advice, we will include that for discussion during open session at a future meeting.
And with that, I'm asking for a motion to convene an executive session pursuant to CRS 24-6402(4)(B) for the purpose of receiving legal advice on, one, Open Meetings Law and Open
Records Act Compliance, two, board GMCEO authority and fiduciary duties under the RTD
statute, bylaws, and delegations, three, furloughs and layoffs, and four, litigation update on
Stinnett v. RTD, Taylor v. RTD, Denver Transit Partners LLC v. RTD. Is there a movement?
DOUG TISDALE: Director Tisdale-KATE WILLIAMS: So moved-DOUG TISDALE: --so moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: --Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So I'm going to say Director Williams and Director Tisdale.
All in favor?
DOUG TISDALE: Aye.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let me go-- let me go through the list. I'm sorry. OK. Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. Was Director Menten, there wasn't a motion there?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We're doing the first one. We're doing the first one to go into
executive session on this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No. Can-- do you want a comment, or you just want the vote?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We just want the vote to go into executive session for the
original piece. That was-- on the agenda.
JUDY LUBOW: I would love to comment why I'm voting no, but I'm voting no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, got it. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No. And I-- I think we should have had discussion where I could have
brought up the motion to remove item one and two. Because we are tying our hands. One is-number one item is completely inappropriate, I think. We don't have a specific-- we're talking
about policy and procedure, which should be open in the public.

And then two, we're talking about board versus GM authority. And because it will be going to an
executive session, that means, in theory, it ties our hands. We would not be able to speak to
anybody about these matters. So we haven't had the discussion, which is where I would make the
motion to remove those two items to be discussed in the public forum, which I believe is where it
is appropriate.
So my vote is no. And I'd like to know when I could make a specific motion to move these items
to open meeting forum.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So if I-- cause my understanding and I will ask our legal counsel
for some specifics on this is that we go through this motion and take the vote whether to go into
executive session. And then once we go in, if we want to amend it, is that correct, Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madame Chair, this is Melanie Snyder. So you would have-- you called
the motion-- the motion and a second. So there can be discussion about the motion before you
call the vote.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: And that should [AUDIO OUT].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I should go back and do the discussion now before the vote?
MELANIE SNYDER: Correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. So I should hold the vote at this point and just
open it up for discussion and amendments, correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So let me stand corrected and open it up for discussion. So
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I have great concerns about if we are just discussing open
records, and especially I think that is one of our task goals is communication with the public.
And that's a core of Open Records, Open Meetings Law.
And so for us to be discussing this [AUDIO OUT] comfortable to some individuals. To me, I
feel very uncomfortable discussing those policy and procedure issues behind a closed door. So
that speaks to item number one.
I would like to make a motion that we-- I have two options. I know we always want to [AUDIO
OUT], but there's Open Meetings Law. We could either discuss this before we go into executive
session, or postpone this to the August 4th Communications and Government Relations
Committee. Because I do feel that communications is appropriate subject, meeting subject.

As for number two, which is the board and the GM authority and fiduciary duties, again, I feel
strongly that the board, knowing what they have delegated and if they want to amend that
delegated authority, and the GM's reading of the bylaws versus compared to state statute which
are two different scenarios, should really, really be in a open meeting. So that everybody is very
clear on what those positions and roles and authorities are.
And so my preference is that we do get to discussing that topic very soon, whether that's tonight,
or we bring it up during one of our general manager oversight committee meetings and then
bring it to the board as a whole. I just feel very strongly that behind the closed door will end up
leading to where council perhaps would say to us, based on interpretation, that our hands are
tied. And then discussing whatever occurs behind the closed door.
And I feel that this is of great interest to the public, to the RTD employees, and that is my
comments on these. I would like both of them pulled and not be held behind closed doors. I have
no problem with three and four on the agenda behind closed door for tonight.
Those are my suggestions. So the official motion, just to make it more comfortable for
everybody, would be the Open Meetings Law and Open Records Act compliance be moved to
the August 4th Communications and Government Relations Committee. And I would be willing
to hear some comments from some others about the GM Board Authority and what might be the
most appropriate venue.
SHELLEY COOK: I'll second that. Just to move into discussion here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. But I'm not clear what your second point is, Director
Menten. So you want to postpone the second one, the board GM CEO authority piece, to the
GMOC Committee to discuss and then bring it back to the board. Is that what I heard?
NATALIE MENTEN: As I thought through it this afternoon, that seemed like a logical path. I
am anxious to have this discussion. We could have it tonight, but in an open forum. And the
second option is through the GMOC.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So which one do you want to put forward for-- you want to
just discuss all of that first? And Director Cook, you're seconding it. So I guess I'd like to know
what your position is then on that number two piece.
SHELLEY COOK: Madame Chair, are you talking to me?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, OK. I would prefer that we postpone both to August 4th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.

SHELLEY COOK: Just to make it a simpler motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. All right.
NATALIE MENTEN: This-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Comments?
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten, and I would accept that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Are there comments from the board?
SHELLEY COOK: Madame Chair, I'll just chime in here, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Thanks for considering this. So I wanted to just say that if our
legal counsel feels like there's a basis for convening an executive session, I will-- I accept that.
However, there-- it may also be the case, and it's my experience that this sort of thing is
discussed in open session. And if there's some discretion on that, I opt for the greater
transparency, just because it's such an issue right now where we're talking about transparency a
lot.
And I so I'm going to err-- I want to err on the side of doing that. And the second thing is just to
allow us the full time we need to address those second two issues in executive session, rather
than following on these two. Thank you, Madame Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you so much. So if I could get legal counsel here
for-- in terms of Robert's Rules of Order. So what I would do is do the vote. If there's no other
discussion, the vote would be all-DOUG TISDALE: Madame Chair?
JUDY LUBOW: I have a comment.
DOUG TISDALE: Madame Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oop, hold on. Is that Director Lubow first with a comment?
JUDY LUBOW: Director Tisdale raised a point, though. I'm not sure what it is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. You guys both chimed in at the same time. So Director
Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Well thank you, Madame Chair. I just I want to speak to the motion to
amend relative to this striking of items one and two from this executive session agenda. And I

would point out that the motion was very carefully articulated so as to be an executive session
for the sole purpose of receiving legal advice. It is not to change policy, to create policy, to
cancel policy. It is to allow our new General Counsel to share legal advice based upon Counsel's
extensive experience in such matters to give us the benefit of her sage counsel to the board.
And the only context in which legal counsel may speak to the board when she is giving a legal
opinion is in an executive session. Otherwise, there is no protection for our further and future
communications with legal counsels. And for that reason, understanding the concerns expressed
but believing that they express a fear of something that will not happen, I will be opposed to the
amendment. Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. I support the amendment, because-- because I don't see
anything in what was written in items one and two that indicates to me that it rises to the level of
needing privacy and that the public could not hear the legal opinions, the generic legal opinions
on Open Meetings Law and Open Records Act, et cetera, and delegating authority.
I mean, to me that type of information is not something that is protected, or I wouldn't think it
should be. It seems generic enough that the public could very well benefit from it also, and I'm
just not comfortable with it. So unless I would hear more specific information about what would
be discussed so that I could feel, yes. It really should be subject to privacy, I'm not comfortable
with that. SO thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'm going to ask General Counsel to make a
comment at this point. Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I will just highlight, again, what Director
Tisdale was clarifying. The purpose of this executive session is very narrow under the Open
Meetings Law, and it's solely for the purpose of receiving this legal advice on very specific
issues. You're not going to be asked or being requested to take any action, nor would any action
in executive session be appropriate.
So I understand that there are times when we would discuss some of these legal issues in open
session. But in order to preserve the privilege and to allow you to ask candid questions, legal
questions of me and for me to provide you some candid legal advice, I would recommend that
you do protect your privilege and preserve your privilege. And I can assure you that I would not
have agreed to hold or convene an executive session if I didn't believe that all of these topics are
legal advice that I'm going to be providing you under the Open Meetings Law and Open Records
Law.
Those are compliance issues specifically that I want to advise you about, as well as the issues of
the allocation of authority and fiduciary duties of the directors under the RTD statute and other
statutes. So I just want to be clear that this is a very-- these are very narrow topics for discussion.
For what is worth, I don't anticipate that this is going to take much longer than an hour. These are

not going to be deep dives into each of these topics, but there are legal issues that I want to flag
for you and make sure that you're very aware of as we move forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, ma'am. All right. So I'm going to call the
question for the amendment of Director Menten and seconded by Director Cook to postpone
items one and two to August 4th. OK. That's the motion we're voting on right now. Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Nope.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can I ask a clarifying question? This is being proposed to go to August 4th
in the-- which committee? Did Director Menten say?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have it down in government relations.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Community Relations. Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. OK. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I'm going to vote no after listening to our attorney. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And I am a no. So we need nine votes to-- for it to pass.
And we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 nos, and 1, 2, 3, 3 yeses. So the amendment motion fails,
and we go back to the original amendment, which is doing the four bullet points Open Meetings
Law and Open Records Act Compliance, Board and GM CEO Authority, furloughs and layoffs,
and litigation.
I'll note for the record that at the conclusion of this Executive Committee session, the board will
not reconvene to address any additional business. And would all of those not entitled to remain
please exit from the call at this time. And thank you for participating.
We will take a five minute recess and then come back and do our executive session.
DOUG TISDALE: Madame Chair, point of order. Madame Chair, point of order.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yeah. Go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: You haven't had a vote on the main motion yet. You need a vote-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, my gosh.
DOUG TISDALE: --on the main motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You are so right, Director Tisdale. OK. Now we'll go back to the
original motion of having the executive session. I read it, but then I didn't vote on it. I do
apologize. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. We have-- we have 11 yeses and two no's, the no's being
Director Lewis and Director Menten. So now I will say for the record that we will take a five
minute recess and come back into executive session.

