May 7 2019 0530 PM Operations & Customer Service
Committee Committee SD 480
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Do I hear a movement that we-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Malpiede and Director Catlin.
NATALIE MENTEN: Can I call for a vote already?
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Not yet. We're not going to question yet. We have some people here. Here
would be the bottom line to this. Before we go any further-[AUDIO OUT]
KATE WILLIAMS: --here did their homework. Are there any questions? Please indicate by
pushing your little button that says speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have one.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go for it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Washington, it's a pleasure to have you here this fine
evening, and Mr. Sirois. I do have some questions. I thought this was an amazing document.
Really, the information was right up my alley. And in fact, I'm going to print it out because it's
just so amazing. But my question to you is are those demographics-- are they from the 2010
census, or how recent are they?
MR. WASHINGTON: So most of the demographic information is actually from the 2016 ACS
data, American Community Survey.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then the only other thing, and I mentioned it to you
earlier, is I was reading this in terms of people wanting to make complaints. I find that form to be
very intimidating. And I don't know what we can do to make it more accessible and nonthreatening, but it is something that has me very concerned. Because when I looked at the
number of complaints over those years, I know that's extraordinarily low, but I know that people
don't feel comfortable doing it. So I want to give that to you and see if you can come up with
some kind of solution.

MR. WASHINGTON: Absolutely. So one of the easiest things that we can do is actually consult
with the FTA (Federal Transit Administration) on that. We're in many ways just checking the
box in filling out or providing the form as they've specified, but we can double check with them,
given your concern.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's all. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do I see anybody else that has any interest in this at the moment? Which is
not to say that it can't be discussed at greater length at any time. I think Mr. Washington would
be happy to take any discussion offline at a later point. OK, seeing nothing, I'm going to call for
a vote to move this forward.
[INAUDIBLE]: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: We got the move.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: We did that earlier. We have those already we have. Angie's the mover,
Director Catlin is the second. Everybody else, please vote.
[INAUDIBLE]: Well, look at that. The blue square wins.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, it looks like we passed. Three no votes but unanimously for the people
that are here, which would be 12 yeses and three no votes. Thank you. Yeah, three absent. They
didn't vote. Thank heavens we're not in Chicago.
So we will move on to the updates tonight. We have a new group of people coming to the table
here. Director Folska, are you on the phone with us still? Smart woman.
OK. I think the first one we have is the August 19th service changes. Let me do this in reverse.
Do you have anything that you feel that was omitted from our homework that you need to bring
to this discussion now? Please feel free to speak.
JESSIE CARTER: At this point, I believe the information in the Board report is complete. So I
believe you have everything that I know thus far.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I see we have one speaker waiting in the queue. Director
Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just had a question about the L Route, because that was supposed
to be kicked to this time frame a few months ago. And there was a lot of disagreement about it,
and I don't see it in this time frame.
JESSIE CARTER: Right, and you're correct. We were thinking that it may be a part of the
August service change, but it's not. It'll be part of the January 2020.

JUDY LUBOW: Well, that's bad.
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. Well, actually, we have a survey that's been done, and we wanted to
actually fill you in on the results of those surveys, because that can actually point to what we
think is going to be the best possible proposal that we can put forward.
JUDY LUBOW: Awesome. So we'll speak offline about that.
JESSIE CARTER: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. In your packet was a letter from the Jefferson
County Commission-- Board of County Commissioners. And I had a discussion with
Commissioner Tighe, and he was pretty animated and concerned about the end of line fare. And I
mentioned that there were other lines that had similar issues, and his argument was that not all of
those stations provide the government services that Jefferson County does. But then he started to
go into some background, and I had no idea what he was talking about. So I would like offline to
have a discussion about those, how those concentric circles were changed.
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely. As you may remember-PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I don't need to know them now. I'll just find out later. I just wanted to let
you know that it's a question I have.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, I will go with that.
[LAUGHTER]
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I think we have other people that would like to address this issue.
Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, just a quick question about the service changes that will take effect
that are associated with the G Line. I think Jesse had said that 31 or 31L, one of those-- the
changes are being reconsidered. So I didn't see them listed. Are we reposting those? Is there any
chance that some of them can be adjusted based on early experience with the G line? Those are
my two questions.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, at this time, the proposal as it was voted on by the Board of Directors
has not been amended. So the 31L is still slated for discontinuance in August, August 25th of
2019. However, after that point, we could revisit what's possible. I did not see anything at this
moment that would show where the ridership would be higher coming from the area that's served

by the 31L. So at this point I don't have any evidence that would show a need for change at this
point in time.
SHELLEY COOK: So I'm going to be meeting tomorrow with a representative from Regis at
Karen Stuart's suggestion, and just watching, just observing-- I don't have numbers on this yet-but we're not getting ridership out of Federal. And yet there is, pretty close by, Regis, which
would be a pretty good pool of potential riders. So I was just thinking maybe if there is a chance,
maybe there is a blessing in disguise with this delay in instituting some of those route changes
that would allow, if not doing the deletion that you're talking about-- but some modification that
would allow us to pick up some additional ridership, for example. So I just wanted to say maybe
there's a chance to move in that space a little bit.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, I would offer a time in which we could actually sit down and kind of go
over the particulars with regard to the Route 31L and 30.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, and I know there are two issues here. One is whether or not we're
going to continue to serve US 36 and Sheridan Station, but the other may be something that
comes to light. So that was kind of a two-fold question. Thanks so much.
JESSIE CARTER: No problem, and also to mention that there are some assumptions, there are
financial assumptions that go along with the cancellation of the 31L that actually affect our
bottom line with concern to peak vehicles and peak operators.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing no one else. Last call for that. Thank you very much, Mr.
Carter. We appreciate your time. We will move on next to service availability, and I would like
to note that Mr. Worthen would [INAUDIBLE], because his kids were on lockdown today. So
we appreciate him very much staying here to give this report to us. OK. Is there anything you'd
like to bring to our attention that was not addressed earlier in this information that we received?
FRED WORTHEN: No, ma'am. I'm happy to answer questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do we have anybody who has any questions on the information on the
service availability for April 2019? And then I'm seeing nobody. I'm going to take a little side.
General Manager, do you have anything you want to add here? No?
DAVE GENOVA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're good too. OK. Moving right along. Thank you Mr. Worthen. Why
don't you just get right up from that chair and go on home. We'd be happy. Thank you. OK. Rail
operations, March update. I know that Mr. Jensen is here. He and I are going to be meeting some
people at 10:00 tomorrow morning, so we're not happy to both be here still, but-[SIDE CONVERSATION]

[INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: Who are you talking to? Do you have anything that you feel like you need
to add to the information that you've provided to the board earlier?
DAVE JENSEN: No, I have nothing to add.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any questions on the information that
was in this package? OK, we're going to move right along to some very good news here at the
end. The community college recruitment update-- who's dealing with that? Yay, come on down.
OK. Did you all read this? This is interesting. Everybody's good? You want to know any more
about it? Do you have any questions? Do you have anything else you want to tell us?
MICHELLE SPREUTELS MARTINEZ: Yeah, I do have a few remarks prepared, if you don't
mind. I will try to be as brief as possible. I've been tasked-- oh, hello, my name is Michelle
Spreutels Martinez, and I'm the Community-KATE WILLIAMS: I apologize, Michelle. I'm sorry.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS MARTINEZ: No worries. Community Outreach Recruiter within the
HR department. I've been tasked with building upon and creating relationships with a variety of
organizations and partners in the community as a way to create new candidate pipelines for RTD.
And my main goal is to help maintain a consistent flow of diverse candidates from various
sources to RTD. In order to achieve this goal, I have begun by attending a variety of career and
job fairs. I've attended fairs all over the Denver metro area and front range starting from Boulder
County all the way down to Douglas County. These fairs have been offered through the
workforce centers within these counties, as well as through nonprofit organizations like the
Mercy House and the Denver Indian Center.
Another initiative that I've continued is strengthening our partnerships with various technical
schools and community colleges. I, along with various hiring managers, have attended advisory
board meetings for Bowman Technical School as well as Pickens Technical College and Lincoln
College of Technology. And during these meetings, we try to figure out what the industry pain
points are, what admissions struggles these schools are facing, and we strategize on ways to
support the recruiting efforts in order to get people interested in the trades.
We are also in conversations with Community College of Aurora, as they are expanding their
mechanic and automotive program and certification. They've created a four-week program that is
geared towards construction workers that's been sponsored by Kiewit. We are brainstorming
ways on how we can adopt a similar four week course to help support our mechanic and body
shop technician roles.
We've also been invited to an industry wide roundtable that will take place this summer. This
roundtable meeting is to continue the conversation on how to close the gap between vocational
schools and the student, on how to better recruit for mechanics and body shop technicians, and
how to educate the public about the other blue collar opportunities that RTD has to offer.

Our hope is that we're able to collaborate with other industry partners and further recruit people
back into the trades, educate and train them with a skill set strong enough to meet our minimum
qualifications, and then allow Community College of Aurora to feed those people back into our
industry, our organization. And this initiative is a long-term initiative that will take time to
develop and implement, but eventually it will support our recruiting needs for years to come.
Furthermore, we work with a variety of diverse organizations that target specific demographics
and groups of people. Examples of these groups are veterans and military members, Native
Americans, Hispanic and Latino communities, the Asian communities, females, high school
students, and retirees, amongst others. Establishing a relationship with all of these organizations
and community partners helps to ensure that we're continuing to support a diverse and inclusive
workforce here at RTD. Organizations like Intercambio in Boulder County, Cultivando in Adams
County, the Asian Chamber of Commerce, and the veteran and spouse branch of the Workforce
Centers all allow us a chance to tap into their communities and recruit directly from their
organizations.
My hope is that this information has given you a better understanding on how our efforts are
helping to establish strong relationships within the communities that we serve. Although most of
these efforts are somewhat recent, we've already taken great strides in the right direction thanks
in part to the acceptance that the community has towards RTD.
Thank you for your time and your patience this evening. I am happy to take any questions if you
have at this point.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you for your patience.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: That's great. So hang on. Anybody? I see two people in the queue. Director
Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just want to say thank you, because that is a complete list of
community organization. And I think it's amazing that you're out there doing this work. So I
want to just say thank you.
MICHELLE SPREUTELS MARTINEZ: Thank you, my pleasure.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, thank you very much.
Secondly, congratulations to you and to Michael Ford, because Michael has been working hard
on this. We've talked about it, and he has followed up on all of these leads and pushed them very
hard. So I genuinely and sincerely appreciate that. Thank you.

MICHELLE SPREUTELS MARTINEZ: Yes, it's my pleasure. Thank you, sir. Goodnight.
ALL: Goodnight.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Michelle.
[LAUGHTER]
Goodnight. OK. Is there anybody who feels that they need to bring other matters before this
committee? We're open to it. Regardless of what you might think, we are open to it. OK. I see no
other matters. This committee may or may not meet on June 11th, depending on if the Finance
committee meets beforehand.
[LAUGHTER]
We thank you all, and we stand adjourned. And good night. Goodnight.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Well done. Wow. We ought to have you do that more often.

