GMT20200915-233255_RTD-Study-_1920x1080
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'll begin the meeting with a brief safety comment. Please
remember too frequently and thoroughly wash your hands. Monitor your health and the health of
those close to you and be particularly alert to those three most prevalent symptoms of COVID19, fever, coughing, and shortness of breath. Minimize the time you spend in poorly ventilated
indoor public areas, especially when a large number of people are present. And wear a mask at
all times in public spaces whether inside or outdoors when you are unable to maintain a physical
distancing of at least six feet.
So let me begin this evening by saying, first of all, to the public thank you, and welcome to the
study session. We are not going to be making any decisions this evening. This evening we are
being brief, and we will be having a discussion about the briefing regarding our financial reality.
I know that this has been a time of total angst for so many people. I know that you've heard
things, you have seen things, and you're wondering what's going on.
I just want to say to you on behalf of the RTD Board of Directors how much we care about you
our staff, really our family. We are all in this together , and we're doing our due diligence to
make sure that we make-ROGER SHERMAN: Thanks, try again. Angie, we do have a couple of board-- Angie, we do
have a couple of board members still trying to get in. Oh, so we may be having a little technical
challenge so hold on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. I was on a roll, Roger.
ROGER SHERMAN: I know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Man, OK. Do I have to read the whole thing again?
ROGER SHERMAN: No, she's calling in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, everybody hold on. We have a couple of technical glitches
going on. We have some board members calling in. So please bear with her. I apologize for any
inconvenience.
ROGER SHERMAN: Still trying to get her in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
ROGER SHERMAN: Angie, we do seem to have a technical problem. I hate to say this that we
have reached a maximum. There's something set incorrectly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, what do you need me to do, Roger?
ROGER SHERMAN: Just give me a minute to see if I can rectify this.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, everybody if we could just put you on hold for a couple
more minutes we are having some technical issues, and we will get back to the meeting as soon
as possible. Again, I apologize for the inconvenience.
BOB BROOM: Could we have some elevator music?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do you want me to sing?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I don't think you want to, but I think Kate has a bells on
her phone that she can play.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I can play that [INAUDIBLE] music, OK.
ROGER SHERMAN: Well, sorry hang on.
All right, Angie, here's the situation. There is a cap on this allowable attendees, and that we've
reached that is a problem. We can-- I can possibly patch in the telephone town hall number, and
people can call in and listen there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
ROGER SHERMAN: If you'd like me to do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, there is-- there actually is a number that folks can call in
and listen in. Correct, Roger?
ROGER SHERMAN: Right. We've reached-- because we had so many, apparently we've
reached that maximum.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, so what would your suggestion be, sir.
ROGER SHERMAN: I am going to launch that number. If we can repeat that number a couple
times and maybe ask some people to call in that are currently on this number, that would be
great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
ROGER SHERMAN: That would allow the other board members to get in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, ladies and gentlemen.
ROGER SHERMAN: We apologize.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I so apologize for the inconvenience. We're having some
technical difficulties. Obviously, this is a topic of great interest to a great many people. What I'd
like to respectfully ask is if a couple of you would not mind getting off of Zoom and calling into
the public line. Let me give you that number. I would so appreciate it, because we're not going to
be able to move on until we get all the board members on. And we are capped, so we need a
couple of folks to call it instead. That number is 669-900-9128, and the meeting ID number is
830-04-ROGER SHERMAN: Angie, hold on. That's not the number we want them to call in.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's going to bring them right back to Zoom meeting. That's [AUDIO
OUT]. What is the number we want them to call.
ROGER SHERMAN: They want to call in to 855-962-8493.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there-ROGER SHERMAN: Oh, I'm sorry. Let me start that again. 855-962-1128-- 1128.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there an ID?
ROGER SHERMAN: There is not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
ROGER SHERMAN: And we will launch that here in one minute, so just have everyone please
call in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, so if folks wouldn't mind calling in that number is 855962-1128. You can see Director Tisdale's number right there again, 855-962-1128.
I'm showing 116, 116, 17. We're going to need a few more people to call in, please. Again, that
number 855-962-1128.
KATE WILLIAMS: And RTD staff if you're not presenting tonight, could you get out of this
meeting and call in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
OK, Roger. I think we should be OK now. We're down to 115.
ROGER SHERMAN: If staff can continue just to call into that number. We'll be with them in
just a moment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, we'll be-- we'll be launching that line live within the
moment. Again, that number is 855-962-1128.

ROGER SHERMAN: OK.
OPERATOR: Welcome to the access event.
ROGER SHERMAN: We're doing it right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you
OPERATOR: Please hold while we connect you to your access live event. You are now being
connected to the access line event as a host. Please note that this call may be monitored,
recorded, or rebroadcast.
ROGER SHERMAN: OK, let's repeat that number one more time for people to call in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. That number again is 855-962-1128.
ROGER SHERMAN: And if we can just give it one minute to let everything call over there, then
we can restart.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
ROGER SHERMAN: And we've got-- and we do have Director Lewis on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
ROGER SHERMAN: So that's good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to do a roll call just to make sure all the board
members are on. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cook.
SHELLY COOK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Lewis.
SHONTEL MARIE LEWIS: Present.
JUDY LUBOW: Lubow.
OPERATOR: 985016 meeting ID does not exist. Please re-enter your meeting ID followed by
pound.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow. I'll come back to you. Director Mentin, I
believe you're on the line. Is that correct?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Can you confirm you hear me, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do. I can hear you. Director Mihalik. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I am here to. I'm going back. Director Lubow, are
you on the line?
Roger, I'm hearing a lot of feedback with you.
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah, we're getting it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Mihalik are you on the line, sir?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, I'm here. Did you not hear me earlier?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, OK. I hear you now, but I didn't hear you earlier.
KEN MIHALIK: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow. Roger, did you hear from Director Lubow?
ROGER SHERMAN: Director Lubow was on earlier. We were speaking with her, but she's not
responding now although she shows she is not on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: She's shows-- I'm sorry that she's not on mute.
KATE WILLIAMS: We see her as part of the meeting, chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right, thank you, ma'am.
We're just waiting for Roger to confirm that we're ready to go.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair, I have people telling me they are in.
ROGER SHERMAN: Can you guys hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you.
ROGER SHERMAN: OK, so we are set. If people can just-- if you would remind folks a couple
times that during the meeting that they can call into the toll free number that would still open up
some space for people.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Thank you, Roger. Then I'm good to go.
Correct?
ROGER SHERMAN: Yes, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Everybody, thank you so very much for being
patient with us. We were having a little technical difficulties. I to ask you again if you would call
in at 855-962-1128 so that the Zoom link will stay active, thank you so very much.
Let me go back and start again. This evening we are not making any decisions. This evening is a
study session and a briefing from our staff to talk to us about our financial reality. I know that all
of you have probably heard a lot of rumors and a lot of things that are happening.
I want to assure you that the RTD Board of Directors has been working quite diligently on this
issue to try to make sure that we are really dotting our I's and crossing our T's. But most of all,
we really are very conscious of the fact that we are dealing with families here in light of
[INAUDIBLE]. And we're dealing with a pretty serious deficit.

So this evening we're going to have a pretty robust discussion. We are really grateful that you are
on the line. We hope that this might clear up any misunderstandings that you might have about
what's happening, and really we are here to listen and to learn and then to really dive in and do
our job. So with that, I would like to hear a follow up presentation from our CFO, Mrs. Heather
Mckillop, RTD's Chief Financial Officer and our Assistant General Manager of Finance
Administration, and Mr. Bruce Abel, our Director of Special Projects.
They will be continuing to discuss the findings and the recommendations of the internal task
force charged with identifying potential cost savings and efficiency measures necessitated by the
revenue shortfalls resulting from the COVID-19 impacts. For those directors who may have
signed in to the meeting via web browser, please note that if you click the hand raise icon, I'll
call on you once I cycle through. But I I really would like to do is listen to the presentation, and
as I've done in other special board meetings I'll call on each of you so that you can all have a
chance to ask questions. So I would just ask that you write them down, and I will get to you as
soon as possible. Mrs. Mckillop, you have the floor.
KATE WILLIAMS: Heather, you have no sound.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I hear nothing, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sorry about that. We were double muted. We didn't realize we had to
do star 6. So we will start again. So I just wanted to give everyone an update on what's going on
with a few items prior to launching into the presentation.
So the first item I wanted to update the board on was the CARES Act funding and how much we
have drawn down and where we are, what things we have been using that for. So as of the end of
August, we've drawn down approximately 64% of the CARES Act funding or right around $148
million dollars. That consisted of about $101 million dollars related to salaries and benefits and
$47 million dollars related to our contracted services.
As we have mentioned previously, this money is designed to be able to keep us afloat when we
were short revenues, as well as keep personnel on from both the contracted services as well as
RTD staff, which is what we've been using it for. We do expect to have all of these funds drawn
down by the end of the year prior to the end of the year. And then we will be out of CARES Acts
money at that time.
Moving on to the sales and use tax forecast, I think they are-- we've had several of them. So I can
understand why there's been a bit of confusion around that. I wanted to remind everybody that
we started the 2020 budget-- adopted budget using the September Leeds Forecast, the budget
September 19 Leeds Forecast. The budget was for sales and use tax at the beginning of the year
with $664.7 million dollars.
We received the march forecast, which we normally get. That forecast in March, though, was
delayed by several months due to the COVID, because we were just entering into that situation at
the time. Based on that, we did ask them to delay the forecast until May. At that forecast, the

board did choose to go with the low forecast for 2020, which was $500.9 million dollars. That's
what was used for the amended 2020 budget.
We then did per our request provide monthly forecast in both June and July. The June forecast
included April actuals. At that time, we decided we did not have enough information in actuals to
use that forecast. So they provided then a July forecast, which included may actuals. We did use
that forecast for our 2021 to 2026 mid-term financial plan, and that's what's being reflected in the
conversation tonight is that forecast.
Leeds will be providing their regular September forecast to us, and this week I have a meeting
with them. I'm not sure if I'll get the forecast this week or next, but it will be coming shortly. And
we do plan on using that forecast for the 2021 budget as we would normally do.
The last thing-- oh, I did want to touch on that we have actually received-- we do have July
actuals, which have been included in your-- will be included in your packet for the meeting next
week. We are seeing numbers come in slightly higher than what we were anticipating for June
and July. Currently, we are about $45 million dollars above that $500 million forecast that we
used for the amended budget.
Again, we will get a new forecast in September, and we will be updating the board at our
October 13th meeting with that asking the board which forecast they would like to use to move
forward to the 2021 plan. So with that, I'd like-- oh, I'm sorry I have one last thing. Good thing
Bruce is here to remind me.
I did want to talk about our bond rating. So we did receive ratings from Moody's, Fitch, and
Standard reports. Fitch, we have met with recently. We spent a couple hours on the phone with
them to go through our current situation. They were very interested in how we were dealing with
COVID-19.
They did release their report. They did maintain our current ratings in the report, but did put us
on negative outlook, which is what we thought was pretty darn good because we were hoping
that we did not get a downgrade. A couple things to note, though, that they did have concerns
about our diminished liquidity position. As we mentioned to them, we plan on using some of our
reserves in the short term. However, they felt that we did have pretty strong liquidity at the
current time as they do count our reserves not only that board appropriated the unrestricted but
also the FISA reserve is counted as cash.
So that's what's keeping us in pretty good shape there. They did make a note though while,
quote-- I'll quote, what they said-- while a diminished liquidity position is expected in the short
term, failure to adjust spending and rebuild financial margins in a timely manner after the
pandemic will lead to a negative rating action. That's pretty explicit. We have never received that
kind of explicit language. So I think what that tells us is we need to try really hard as we go
through the pandemic and come out afterwards to try to keep our liquidity position pretty strong.
Standard and Poor's at the beginning of the COVID-19 put everybody on a negative outlook
look. So any transit agency that issued debt went on a negative outlook. And Moody's our

understanding is they will be meeting to discuss our ratings. We offered to do a presentation.
They declined.
They will be meeting to discuss our ratings in the next few days. So that is an update on where
we are with our rating process. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Bruce Able to start the
presentation.
BRUCE ABEL: Thanks, Heather. And when I'm done with my part, I will turn this back over to
Heather for the completion of the presentation. So I'll ask Susan if we could just please go to
slide packet page three. Not that anyone needs to be reminded of what it is that our mission is,
but everything that we're going to be talking about is within the context of our core mission,
which I like to just talk about is moving people.
That's what we exist to do. We move people by providing bus, rail, and paratransit serve. So that
is our mission. Susan, if you would please go to page five.
Really just to provide a little bit-- a very quick background, what's our challenge in the nutshell
starting off to address $166 million dollars shortfall for calendar 21, which is also our fiscal year.
To put this in the context that would be 25% of our normal Operations and Maintenance budget
or O&M budget. And I just want to share with people that these numbers are going to be
constantly changing, because we constantly get actual sales tax receipts.
We get forecasts, which revise issues. We get farebox revenues, so we are re-forecasting our
farebox revenues. But this is essentially our challenge $166 million dollar shortfall. Background
sales and use tax usually provides about 65% of our revenue stream for O&M costs. Farebox
revenue usually provides about 15% to 20% of our revenue stream.
So between those two revenue sources, we usually get about 80% to 85% of our revenue stream.
Pre-COVID sales tax projections for 2021, and Heather just referred to the different forecasts
that we've got from the Leeds school. But pre-COVID 2021 was estimated to be approximately
$711 million dollars.
Subsequent to the COVID induced slowdown, the Leeds School forecasts of 2021 would reduce
to $571 million dollars, which is a decrease of about $140 million dollars or about 20% of our
main source of revenue. Farebox revenue pre-COVID was about just under $140 million dollars.
Subsequent to COVID, ridership went down dramatically down about 60%.
We're currently operating about 40% of pre-COVID levels. It remains there today. Farebox
revenues has also declined markedly, and again we're projecting now 50ish percent to 60% of
revenue, farebox revenue as compared to prior revenues.
In June of 2020, the GM appointed an internal COVID fiscal response task force. It was created
within the organization. The task force asked each general manager to evaluate and prioritize
their programs, their processes, and their staffing in order to identify cost savings and budget
strategies to address the 21 shortfalls. Again, to identify projects, programs, and expenses that
could be delayed or eliminated, evaluate staffing levels to support a much reduced level of

service in the foreseeable future, and to present recommended approaches to address those
shortfalls in their particular departments.
Susan, if we could go to page seven please. So at the same time that we were-- that the GM
appointed the task force, the board provided the COVID-19 budget reduction principles, and
these are the principles under which the task force and all of our activities have taken place
referencing back to the board's priorities as to how we approached our budget reductions. Susan,
if you can go to page nine please.
SPEAKER: Which is package page 11 for the board.
BRUCE ABEL: Oh, I'm sorry. It's package page-- OK, it's packaged page 11 for the board.
Apparently there is a disconnect between my packet and yours. I apologize.
Currently, our ridership is at 40% of the pre-COVID levels. Currently RTD is providing service
at 60% of the pre-COVID levels, and currently staffing levels has remained at 100% of preCOVID levels. As Heather referred to, we have been using the $232 million of CARES Act
funding to allow us to retain our workforce in its entirety. Susan, thank you.
Just to put this and so how are we responding to the pandemic, and how are other agencies
responding to the pandemic? Current service levels according to an APTA survey that was
released in July, 53% of transit agencies that were surveyed responded were offering less than
75% of their pre-COVID-19 service levels. So we were approximately at 60%. We are very
much in keeping with the majority of the agencies that responded to the APTA survey.
Next page please, Susan. As a result of these increased costs, approximately a third of the
agencies have furloughed employees or are planning furloughs for employees. Next page, please,
Susan. So through the work study sessions with the board, we had a number of conversations
regarding how the board would direct us to approach the budget shortfalls, the projected
shortfalls.
First, the board indicated we should consider reductions in administrative costs-- administrative
overhead. Through these conversations, the board indicated that it would be OK to utilize
reserves, but that we should limit their use. This certainly seems to be the type of time that
reserves would be used to respond to these types of fiscal emergencies.
The board gave us head nod at study session that it would be OK to utilize the future FISA
rubber tire service contributions to help balance the 2021 budget. As we may recall, the original
fast tracks ballot language included language that there was to be money dedicated to the
expansion of rubber tire service recognizing that not everyone in the district would benefit from
the rail expansions. From 2005 through 2011, the funds did flow from fast tracks into expansions
of rubber tires service. In 2012, the board created the Fast Tracked Internal Savings Account,
FISA. And the rubber tire service contributions were capped at that level, the 2012 level plus
CPI, and other additional rubber tired service contributions went into the FISA.

Subsequent conversations as we were discussing with the board what revenue sources would be
allowable to use to help address the shortfall. We got the head nod to utilize future contributions
from the credit risk premium, which we anticipate getting back projects savings, such as savings
from Southeast Rail Extension, anticipated savings from the north line. Again, these savings
would be OK to use to offset shortfalls in the fast track account.
And the board was very clear with us that we should not utilize the existing FISA balances,
which have come to be known as the corpus of the FISA. There was some conversation about
possibly allowing the use of the corpus for State Highway 119, but you will see that we have not
done this in any of the forecasts that are included in today's presentation. And the board was also
clear they did not want to reduce service levels below that which we are currently offering, and
so again from a budget forecasting perspective we are anticipating the continuation of service at
our current level.
Next page, please, Susan. So now I'd like to go through and discuss some of the proposals from
the task force, and they could be-- they could fall into I would call them several different
buckets. And the first bucket I would call the rather routine cost saving strategies that any
organization in our fiscal straits would be looking at-- the elimination of business travel in 2021,
there would be no temporary employees budgeted in 2021 except for minimal budgets to respond
to emergencies that we would eliminate the reimbursement of professional dues, except for,
perhaps, some job required professional dues, and I would use as an example in the legal field
Colorado Supreme Court fees so that lawyers could continue to practice in the state of Colorado,
eliminate the reimbursement of publications and subscriptions. We would eliminate employee
referral and signing bonuses, but we would continue to pay out those that have already been
earned, because we do have commitments outstanding.
We would eliminate professional development fund except as job required and again might offer
an example of, perhaps, if an engineer is required to take a course to keep a certificate current.
We would suspend The Leadership Academy for 2021. We would suspend the Multiagency
Exchange Program or the max program in 2021, and I would characterize those as being the
routine cost reduction strategies.
We have also deferred $114 million in capital or the asset management plan projects, and these
have not been eliminated but they have been deferred projects that were originally anticipated to
be undertaken in 2021 were moved and spread over the 2022 through 2026 planning period. The
asset management folks are prioritizing them as we speak. It's pretty easy for us to say that we
can defer bus replacements, for example, because a good portion of our fleet may be mothballed.
But there are other projects that we still want to try to keep some money in an emergency fund
for, for example, hoists, roofs, and things like that.
Next page please, Susan. Additionally, we have service related proposals as well. Our target is to
maintain the current level of service, which is 40% below pre-COVID levels. We anticipate
redeploying hours from underutilized services to those services that have retained ridership
during the pandemic, and we'll be discussing that next week at ops committee socializing that in
the month of September and then coming back to the board in October.

Unless there's new CARES Act, we will no longer be able to provide follower services when
budgets reach capacity constraints. You may recall that we're constrained at 30% of usual
capacity. And so those routes that tend to have riders have retained their ridership are the routes
that have riders that depend on transit to get to the essential jobs.
We can anticipate that accessorize demand will continue to be below pre-pandemic levels. We
are currently operating at about 30% of expected levels in 2020. We are providing for a slight
growth in that in 2021.
We are anticipating to continue to provide the grocery delivery service to our accessorized
clients. They are our most vulnerable clients. We want to make sure that we have funds available
to meet their needs. We will continue to provide flex rides at its current reduced level of service,
and we'll continue to evaluate the mix of service provision between internally RTD provided
service and those services that are provided by our contractors.
So in addition, now I would get to the non-routine bucket of proposals. Obviously, there would
be no price pay increases for salaried employees, as we attempt to address the dramatically
reduced budget. In our prior conversations, we had discussed tiered furloughs for salaried
employees. The initial proposal was that 0 to $60,000, there would be no furlough days. $60,000
to $120,000, 6 furlough days, which equates roughly to about a 2 1/2% salary adjustment,
$120,000 to $180,000 the initial proposal was 12 Furlough days, which was roughly equivalent
to a 5% salary adjustment. And over $180,000, 18 furlough days. That would equate to
approximately a 7 to a 7 1/2% salary adjustment.
During the two on twos a couple of board members indicated to us concerns about having staff,
especially senior staff away from the office this much especially in light of a new GM coming on
board who would like to have greater access to senior staff. So tonight we are proposing a
change to the initial proposal. It is roughly the equivalent, but it is structured differently.
What we would propose is that 0 to $60,000 would still be no furlough days. 60 to $120,000
would still be six furlough days, roughly 2 1/2% percent salary adjustment equivalent. Between
120 and $180,000 would be six furlough days and a 2 1/2% salary adjustment. That would still
be equivalent to a 5% salary adjustment. And that in excess of $180,000, it would be six furlough
days and a 5% salary adjustment. And again, that continues to be approximately 7 1/2%.
Some folks have asked where 7 and 1/2 percent came from. So I will just share in reading
newspaper accounts as to how many-- how many entities are addressing their shortfalls. Seen
stories about 5% budget adjust or salary adjustments. Seen stories about 10% salary adjustments.
This represents the middle, the midpoint approximately 7 1/2% salary adjustment for the highest
paid employees.
We also want to make sure that we are taking appropriate actions so that we maintain a
foundation upon which to build back as we rebound from COVID. Again, these are anticipated
for 2021, so we would anticipate these temporary adjustments going into effect on January of
2021. We already have furloughs in effect for the remainder of 2020.

So this is a change from the initial proposal and a change based on comments that we have
received from the board both in our two and twos and subsequent conversations. We would
propose that there be no increases in the contribution to the salary defined benefit pension
program. The board may recall that the defined benefit program was closed to new employees
about 10 years ago. That means there is no new money flowing into it so that is funded via lump
sum payment.
The lump sum payments have never been equal to the dollar amount recommended by the
actuarial, but over the past several years we have attempted to increase the amount to at least get
closer to the actuarial determined appropriate payment. Due to financial shortfall, we are
suggesting that there be no increases from last year to the DB pension plan. We are
recommending a temporary reduction in the contribution for the salary to Defined Contribution
or the DC plan from 9% to 7%.
Current plan documents indicate that the DC plan would have contributions in the range of 7% to
9%. This is an adjustment that can be made in the short term without changes to the plan
documents and without needing to I would suggest that any changes that would be made would
be done in consultation with folks that know this industry far better than anyone on the task force
or on staff at the moment. So this is something that we can do to address the 2021 shortfall.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bruce, if I might. I apologize. We have about 299 people who
are trying to listen to this presentation. So if I might just once again repeat the phone number that
you can call to listen in. It is 855-962-1128. Again, that is 855-962-1128. Thank you. Go ahead,
Bruce.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So as I indicated, the last bullet point that I
referenced was a proposal to temporarily reduce the contribution for the salary defined
contribution savings plan from 9% to 7% within the parameters of the existing plan documents.
Proposing the elimination of buyback for salaried vacation and sick leave, people have been
previously allowed to buy back vacation sick and PTO. Again, we would eliminate that due to
the cash flow ramifications.
Obviously, if people separate from the organization, they will be paid out their vacations and
appropriate sick and/or PTO. But we are talking about eliminating the ability to buy back unused
next year. The elimination of overtime and extra shift pay except as appropriate, and when I say
appropriate and/or emergency by appropriate I mean there are times when we construct, for
example, bus or rail operator schedules that it makes more sense to build in over time than it
does to create an additional shift.
So there are sometimes when we call-- we build in what we call built in over time. And
obviously, there may be situations where overtime is required to respond to an emergency
situation. Next page, please Susan.
And adjustments to staffing levels to right size the organization to align staffing with the
anticipated continuation of operating service at a 40% reduction or at a 60% of pre-COVID
service levels. So what we're about to discuss represents the elimination of some positions,

consolidation of other / and we are proposing an elimination of the number of positions by about
25% to 30%.
Now I use the term positions in terms of headcount, actual people who are currently on staff.
This would be a reduction of about 18 to 19%. The rest of the reductions represent eliminations
of vacant positions, which do provide budget savings because they are budgeted positions. So
again these reductions include both vacant and filled positions for both represented and salaried
staff. It represents both full-time and part-time positions.
We're currently anticipating approximately 550 filled positions, and this is reduced from our last
conversation when we anticipated 635 filled part and full-time positions and, again, both
represented in salary staff. And I want to I want to acknowledge that this number has changed. I
want to acknowledge that these figures will continue to change as we continue to conduct a more
detailed analysis.
For example, as I mentioned earlier, we are continuing to conduct an analysis between internally
provided services and contracted services to examine the distribution of lay offs between RTD
employees and non-RTD employees from our contractors. So I want to be very explicit and say
this clearly, we are working very hard to continue to reduce these numbers, which is why these
numbers have changed over the past several days.
We take this very seriously, because we know that these conversations are having an impact on
people's lives. So we are trying to be very deliberate. I know that there are folks out there who
like to chide us, because our numbers change. But I hope that they realize that we are doing our
best to minimize the impact of these changes on people. So we will continue to change these
numbers as we continue to try to minimize the negative impact on the people who are delivering
our service on the front lines and providing support for the delivery of those services on the
salaried staff, but we also do need to address our financial challenges.
So I would point out that the majority of the service the reduction in the number of positions that
you see today and we're discussing today represents a renewed analysis that we want to-- we
have added back a number of bus driver positions. We want to make sure that we provide greater
flexibility as we proceed through this time of real uncertainty. I also want to address very clearly
that we do-- again, we recognize that this has an impact on people's lives. When we look at
separations of represented employees obviously any layoffs will be done in keeping with the
provisions of the collective bargaining agreement. It is very clear in describing how any layoffs
would be performed.
In our budget, we have included money to provide severance pay and health insurance for those
that are displaced for a couple of months. We anticipate providing placement service assistance
to help folks apply for and hopefully secure alternative employment providing assistance with
resume writing, et cetera, providing assistance to EAP, and obviously callback provisions.
Because we all hope that we are going to be returning to some semblance of normalcy sooner as
opposed to later, callback provisions for represented employees are also clearly laid out in a
collective bargaining agreement.

So again, we understand the impacts that these actions have on people's lives, and we are
attempting to be sensitive to that. We also need to be sensitive to the fiscal sustainability of the
organization and we are going to continue to try to minimize the numbers of people impacted. So
with that, I want to turn it over to Heather. But before I do that I think I just want to wrap up by
saying I think it's very important that we remain flexible, because we need to respond to reality
as it unfolds.
All of the strategies that we're talking about are based on the latest forecast. We continue to
receive information on actual sales tax collections. We will get another forecast from Leeds at
the end of September as Heather has already alluded to. June and July came in stronger than
expected, and there are dueling theories in the newspaper about whether August is going to come
in stronger as June and July have or if it's going to come in weaker because of the loss of the
$600 per week stipend that ended at the end of July. So we're just going to have to wait and see
what reality is.
We need to be able to be flexible, because it's very difficult for anyone to forecast in the current
environment because we've never experienced anything like this before. We also need to be
flexible and continue to see how ridership on transit does or does not respond.
We have continued to operate about 40% of ridership. That continues as of the last report that I
saw that came out of the end of last week, about 40% of pre-COVID ridership levels. This has
had an impact and weakened our farebox revenues as was introduced later in this presentation.
So that contributes to a deeper shortfall, but hopefully we will see sales tax growth offsetting
some of that deeper shortfall. So with that, I'll turn it over to Heather to discuss the more
financially oriented pieces of our approach.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Before Mrs. Mckillop takes over, let me once again ask for those
who are on the line with 299 numbers to please call in instead of being on Zoom. That number Is
855-962-1128. Again, that is 855-962-1128. Thank you. The floor is yours, Mrs. Mckillops.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you so much. This is Heather Mckillop, CFO. I'm going to run
through starting on packet page 18. So Susan, if you could go to the next. So this is how we're
trying to solve for the shortfall.
Bruce has walked me through the efforts of the COVID task force, internal task force as well as
the work that the Assistant General Manager have provided to that task force. So what I'm trying
to do is take that information then and trying to solve for our shortfalls in 21 through 26. So the
first shortfall we're solving for is $166 million. That shortfall was presented to you in our
workshop on September 1st just a few weeks ago.
I have highlighted that in the yellow for you to see the amount there. It was $83 million in 2021
for the base system and approximately $83 million in 2021 for fast track. Overall, we're looking
at that time of an $849 million dollar shortfall over the life of the mid-term financial plan.

One of the things I want to point on in here is that in the last numbers we showed you on
September 4-- sorry, September 1 was an estimated savings in the BASE system around $40
million and in FastTracks around $20 million. After going through the process that has been
going on for the last several months and trying to finalize those numbers, we clearly in the BASE
system as you can see in 2021 under administrative personnel related savings other
administrative reductions in service far exceeded the amounts that we were talking about, around
$40 million.
However, in Fastracks, those same amounts resulted in a much lower number than the $20
million we were assuming. So we had to figure out a way to balance that. So I just want to
quickly run through what these lines mean. So the first line administrative personnel related
savings are exactly that, things related to people, personnel, benefits, overtime savings, that type
of stuff.
Then we have the one-time personnel costs. Bruce also discussed this. We're looking at
severance pay, some health insurance, other services that might be provided. That will be a one
time cost to the organization, so that will net out again the first year. Unemployment too would
be an item that would be covered in here. The other administrative reductions are things that we
pointed out, Bruce also pointed out such as subscriptions and not using temporary personnel and
those type of activities.
And then under service which is a little bit further down the page, that is the amount of costs
related directly to service changes. So bringing our personnel and things like fuel, equipment-not equipment sorry-- parts, those types of things in line with the service that we'll be offering,
that's the line item that's in the service line. So you can see in the BASE system for 2021, those
things totaled $88.6 million. We had a shortfall of $83 million to solve for that left $5.4 million
available for us to offset.
On the other hand, under FastTracks when you take the administrative savings, the one time
costs, other administrative reductions, and the service, we were not able to balance out without
using reserves, the FISA contribution for 2021, so this is not from the corpus we've been calling
it, but from the contribution that was scheduled to rubber tire service. And then we had the
service reductions, which were much lower than we anticipated. But we ultimately by using
those resources were able to solve 2021.
Keep in mind in this solving of the shortfall for 2021, we had to solve for the shortfall all the
way out. We were able to do that in the base system and still end up with a balance of $264
million. You can see that on the far right under available to fund additional base shortfalls, et
cetera.
I think Susan's pointing to that. Thank you. In addition, I do want to point out that under project
deferment we did still defer the Burnham Yard project and the maintenance facility. Those were
listed in 2022 and 2025.
However, we did keep in there in 2021 the electric buses and infrastructure. Those have two
grants that fund that, and then we kept in 2023 the state highway 119 BRT at $33.3 million.

Those did remain in there. Even with those, we were able to solve the shortfall in the BASE
system. However, we ended up with only one month of reserves available when we get done
with this process, and then under FastTracks we ended up still with a shortfall in 2024, 2025, and
then overall $96.7 million by the end of that six year period. Next page, please, page 19 of the
packet.
So Bruce discussed a little bit about there have been changes since the September 1 workshop.
The first is fare revenues. We had previously estimated fare revenue at 80% of our original
forecast for 2021. Based on July and August actuals, we have revised that forecast to be 60% in
2021, 65% in 2022, 70% in 3, 4, and 5, and then 80% in 2026.
Now this is based on just looking at the actual revenues for July and August. These could change
greatly. They could be more aggressive than what we've outlined, or they could be less. But we
have two months of actual, and that's what we used for that.
It does add $30 million dollars to the shortfall in 2021 and adds a total of $307 million to the 21
through 26 shortfall. We did have to incorporate the amended budget changes. So the board in
July adopted the 2020 amended budget. Since we are using the cash flows from the March
workshop that we went through with the board, we had not incorporated the amended budget
changes. So we had to do that. That is an overall reduction to the shortfall by $1.8 million in
2021. An overall reduction between 21 and 26 of $11.8 million.
Speaker: That's good.
Yes, that is a good thing. Rubber tire service, Bruce mentioned this also that between 2004 and
2012 we had a contribution to rubber tire service. They include two component parts. One was a
base amount that we put into rubber tire service from FastTracks to the base system. And then
starting in 2012 any increases that were made to happen per the 2004 FastTracks plan that were
above inflation went into the FISA.
However, when we were doing the projections in September, we omitted the rubber tire service
contribution from fast tracks to the base service for the base rubber tire service. And that was an
oversight on our part. That added $19.8 million dollars to the 2021 shortfall and $127 million to
the 2021 to 2026. That does bring the adjustments for 2021 to $215 million from $166 million
dollars.
I've gotten the question lately as to why we made the adjustments in fare revenue but not to sales
tax revenue based on the actuals we've seen in June and July. The reasoning for that was we do
the forecast for fare revenue. We had committed at the September 1 workshop that as soon as we
had gotten the actual for July and August we would recalculate that and bring that back to the
board to show you the deficit related to that.
Regarding the sales and use tax, those forecasts are done by Leeds. We are expecting that
forecast to come in this week, or at least I have a meeting with Leeds this week to discuss the
September forecast. This would be their normal forecast that they would provide to us. This

forecast we would use for the 2021 budget, which we plan on doing, but I don't have that
information in time to add it to this particular presentation today.
The total adjustments for 2021, as I mentioned, will now be $215 million. And on the next page,
which is on packet page 20 what we have done here is solve for that additional shortfall. So on
the previous spreadsheet, we solved for $166 million. On this spreadsheet, we're trying to solve
for the additional shortfall as it relates to those items I just covered. So in 2021, for example, our
additional shortfall was $36 million.
We were able from the previous balancing we had $5.4 million available. We're going to use that
to offset that $36 million shortfall. We then had to take-- not contribute to our reserves. We had
to take money out of reserves and based on that we were able to balance the BASE system. We
did that same process for 2021 through 2026 for the base system. After completing that exercise,
we had to use approximately $61, almost $62 million of reserves in the BASE system.
We used $10 million of the future contributions to the FISA in 2022, and then we had to use a
total of $143 million dollars that we had available on the previous spreadsheet from the BASE
system savings, which left us with total positive balance of $121.1 million dollars. Those savings
were generated in 2024 through 2026. They don't occur in the near term.
Under FastTracks, we went through the same exercise with an additional shortfall in yellow in
2021, for example, of $14.1 million dollars. We then had to use reserves and a future FISA
contribution in 2026 to be able to balance that. By doing so, we still have a shortfall in 24, 25,
and 26. The total is $113 million. If I take that $113 million and I add it to the shortfall from the
previous page of $96 million dollars, that brings us to an overall shortfall of $210.6 million for
2024 through 2026.
We are able to balance both BASE and FastTracks for 21, 22, and 23 by using existing
contributions to the FISA and reserves. On FastTracks that is difficult to do, and we are not able
to accomplish that after using contributions to the FISA and reserves. We've exhausted all
reserves except for one month, and we are still short $210 million.
Susan, just got dropped, so she may not be able to turn the page. So we may be on this page for a
little bit, but I'm going to go ahead and move forward in the essence of time. So you'll have
plenty of time to ask questions while she comes back on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Heather, if I might if I can ask someone to hang up and call in so
that Susan can get back on, I'd appreciate it. That number is 855-962-1128. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thanks so much. So while we rest on this page, I will go ahead and
cover the next page, which is packet page 21. We have come up with solutions to be able to fund
the fast track shortfall in 24 through 26, but those options are not necessarily going to be popular.
But we wanted to present those to you tonight, because we need to be able to make a decision. If
the board decides to adopt the six year plan, we have to be able to solve for those out years.

So based on that we had previously discussed with you on September 1 that we'd like to look at
utilizing projected future contributions. These would be the non-rubber tire contributions to the
FISA. We have estimated those, and I want to say it's an estimate of $64.1 million. The first
group being that totals $16.1 million are fairly near-term and fairly well known numbers. So we
feel pretty confident with these.
That would be FastTracks. The program wide costs of $5 million savings, I-225 project savings
of $5 million, Denver Union Station project savings of the 3.2, the west quarter parking garages
savings of 1.4, and the FastTracks contingency that we have, which is a project contingency of
1.5, again, estimated at 16.1. Fairly comfortable with those numbers. Pretty near term that we
would close out those projects, and those dollars would be returned to, in this case, the FISA.
The next grouping timeline to be determined. Not as comfortable with these or when we might
get them. The first is project savings from North Metro. We're currently estimating we may have
as much as $20 million available to apply towards the shortfall. That project is just opening as
you realize, and we still have a lot of project closure and work to do to pay bills on that project.
And so we are not as comfortable with this number, but feel it should be around this number
when we close the project if all goes well.
We have talked a lot about the credit risk premium. Our share without interest is $14 million if
we were to get that back. We currently have that in the bill. However, that bill is not going
anywhere fast right now, so the good part is we've got it in the bill. The bad part is it might not
happen. We will continue to get that back.
So the time frame for that is not known. It could be early as next year. It could be several years
out. And then the last thing that will be on the agenda for September is the refinancing of the
Eagle Private Activity Bond.
We preliminary estimated that our share could be as much as $14 million or more, but we are
still looking at what that number might be, and that will be brought to the Board on next Tuesday
for action. But right now, we just wanted to reflect that as a possibility. Those three projects, or
three activities, would be $48 million, and that's where the $64.1 comes from.
As I had previously pointed out, in the base system between 2024 and '26, we would have $121.1
million estimated available that could be applied towards the shortfall. And we have the $119.6
million that we did not touch in solving the shortfall from the existing FISA balance, which also
could be applied.
So with that, we have sufficient funds if we chose to use those funding sources to offset the
shortfall in 2024 to 2026. This is one of the things that we would like the Board to weigh in on
tonight is one, last meeting we talked about the fact-- the issue was brought up that maybe the
Board would like to look at approving a two-year plan versus a six-year plan, but a lot of the
Board members wanted to see where we are with the six-year plan.
I think it's important that we shared the six-year plan because without knowing what our future
holds, we're not able to affect it in a positive manner. But if we do that, then we will need to

solve for this shortfall to present a balanced plan. If the Board chooses to do something less than
the six-year plan, as I have pointed out, we are able to balance without using the items on packet
page 21 to balance '21, '22, and '23.
The last page, so Susan must be back because the next page, which is the next steps, we have the
Board's study session this evening that we're discussing right now. The Finance and
Administrative Committee is meeting next week. We are looking at approval of the mid-term
financial plan, whatever that looks like after this evening.
On September 22, we do have to get that into the Board packet tomorrow and submit a track. We
are looking at also next week Operations Committee presenting the January Runboard. On
September 29, we have a Board of Directors meeting, where we would be looking at adoption of
the mid-term.
On October 13, we have a study session under the 2021 draft budget, which you have seen a lot
of the components of that budget tonight, and we're asking for feedback on that. October 15, we
will be posting the draft 2021 budget. That is per state statute.
October 20, the Finance and Administrative Committee, we will be discussing the draft 2021
budget, as well as other things that go with that. We typically come for approval on the pension
plan contributions, the benefits, and the fiscal policies, as well as the key performance indicators
for 2021.
We are looking for approval of the January Runboard at the October 20 Operations Committee
Board meeting. On October 27 would be adoption of the January Runboard. November 10, the
Finance Administration Committee approval of the 2021 budget, and then on November 17,
adoption of the 2021 budget.
So very tight time frame with a lot of dates coming up very quickly. So with that, I would be
glad to open it up for questions, and Bruce and I will be available to take questions and answer
them as we can.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Miss McKillop. Just so I'm absolutely clear, I'm
going to call up every Board member, but you want three things from us this evening, right, if I
wrote this down correctly. You want to know if we want a two-year plan or a six-year plan. Is
that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then I heard another one-- feedback the draft budget on
October 15. I guess I missed that one.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, so let me just itemize those. The first thing we would like is
regarding the furlough discussion. We offered a updated proposal on that. We would like
feedback on that because that's pretty important to get resolved so we can finalize the mid-term
plan as well as working on the 2021 budget.

The second thing is the two- versus six-year or something else, but that's where we are right now,
two versus six. And then, if we choose to do a six-year plan I need feedback on how we're going
to fund the shortfall in 2024 through 2026 based on the information we provide on packet page
21.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you for recapping that, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. So what I'd like to do first is to go through the roster
and just have people ask questions generally. And then, I'll do it like I did last time, at the end get
your polling on how you feel. So let me begin with Director Broom. Director Broom, you have
the floor. Do you have any comments or questions?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Could you differentiate the number of layoffs
between represented and non-represented employees that are included in this plan?
BRUCE ABEL: Yes. So in terms of the-BOB BROOM: And could you do that in age terms as well?
BRUCE ABEL: Yes. So in terms of numbers, and again, I would emphasize that these numbers
will continue to change as we continue to refine our analyses. But at the current time, on the
salaried staff side between positions being eliminated and positions being consolidated, full- and
part-time, there are 108 positions that are filled and there are 72 positions that are vacant, for a
total of 180 positions. That represents approximately 13% of the salaried staff.
On the represented side, that represents-- excuse me-- there are 429 full- and part-time positions
that are currently filled, as well as approximately 225 vacancies. In terms of the filled positions.
Again, that represents approximately 20% of the occupied positions represented.
The represented workforce is merely derived from the reduction in levels of service. That would
include operators, as well as, for example, reductions in the number of mechanics due to reduced
service levels and things such as that. All told, in terms of occupied positions, it represents
between 18% and 19% reduction of current workforce.
I hope that answers your question.
BOB BROOM: It does. Thank you. Thank you very much. I may have more questions later, but
that's all for now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you so much. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair, and that was the exact question I was going to ask. If
it's OK, I'll do a couple of other things as well. I might need to log off of this meeting.

You know, Bruce Abel brought up some good points and made some good comments. We need
to be flexible. We need to continue to analyze the data, and this data is ever changing, and that's
what makes it really challenging. So to me, it's irresponsible to not base your decisions on most
current and most accurate data.
So that being said, I think we need to put off adoption of the mid-term financial plan until we
address the 2021 budget approval, so maybe as far as November, approve them both at the same
time. We'll have new data by that point in time. And we need to do a two-year mid-term
financial plan, not a six-year mid-term financial plan.
The last time we talked about this, some director said well, I don't mind doing the two-year, but
I'd like to see the six-year numbers, too. Well, you're just doing a six-year mid-term financial
plan, then so I don't get the distinction. So I think a two-year mid-term financial plan is what we
need to do, and it should be shifting two-year plan for the time being. So next year, we might
want to consider just doing another two-year plan that takes us up to 2023.
The furlough proposal, I like the fact that you're cutting back on days and reducing salaries. I
think the salary reductions need to be greater. I know Director Menten may talk about a proposal
she has, and I think those numbers are too high. But I think we need to look at bigger numbers on
the non-represented salary reductions.
In terms of what Bob Broom brought up, the percentages of represented employees and nonrepresented employees that may be let go, I'd like to try to make those percentages more equal,
either by reducing the number of represented employees that are released or increasing the
number of non-represented employees that we let go.
And in terms of the six-year plan and how we're going to fund the shortfall, I'm not going to
address it because we need to adopt a two-year mid-term financial plan and not worry about that
today because we're borrowing trouble. We're making projections based on bad facts that are
going to change, so anyway.
That's all I have. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Secretary Buzek. Mainly on the furloughs, 7 and 1/2
is too low, 18 is too high. Do you have a percentage in mind?
VINCE BUZEK: You know, I don't and I think it would be-- I don't know where the number, the
18%, came. I mean, I just can't pull a number out of the air. I think you need to take a look at-thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, cool. Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had a conversation with Heather earlier, and she
indicated that she was fine with going with less than six-year mid-term financial plan because we
are in the middle of the TIP cycle and do not have to provide that information. Do you want to
address that, Heather?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, this is Heather McKillop. That is correct. If we were in the
middle of a TIP cycle, we would need to provide a six-year plan so that our plans were in the TIP
so we can proceed with federal funding. At this particular juncture, we're in the middle of that
cycle, so we do not have to adopt a six-year plan this year. So that gives the Board some
flexibility in deciding what period of time they would like to adopt at this . Juncture
PEGGY CATLIN: So as a follow up, Heather, when does the next round of TIP planning come
up? What year?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I need to-- I would Phil that, but I'm assuming next year we do have to
provide a 2050 plan. We did, based on the COVID situation, we did not provide that this year,
which was understood by Dr. Cox, but there is an expectation we would provide that next year.
In doing so, we would need a short-term and a long-term plan, so my expectation is we would
need to do that, both the six-year and a long-term plan out to 2050 in 2021.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I asked that because of Director Buzek's comment about a kind of a
rolling two-year plan, but it sounds like we do need to bite the bullet and adopt a six-year plan
next year, so I appreciate that.
Another question-- has your task force considered outsourcing discrete business units? And I'm
citing as an example, the E-470 Board outsources its customer service center, and it-- this is just
an example-- and it seems to me that in times like this, it would have been nice to have had some
scalability without impacting our direct employees but maybe looking at something like that. I
didn't know, Bruce, if you had considered anything like that.
BRUCE ABEL: We have looked at outsourcing business units on the non-represented side. We
had not looked at outsourcing current business units that are performed by represented
employees.
PEGGY CATLIN: Would there be an opportunity in this next round of collective bargaining
agreement negotiations to take a look at that?
BRUCE ABEL: I would certainly anticipate that that could be introduced as a topic of
negotiations.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. That's all I have for now, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLY COOK: Yeah thank you. Understanding that this is just questions at this point, but one
having to do with our fund balance or our reserve goal. Heather, I'm concerned about-- as you
know, we've talked about this today-- I'm concerned about lowering that to one month and going
on that, or at least accepting it, for two or three years here. I understand that we're talking about
the FISA as being a sort of de facto part of that. But I want to clarify we're not modifying our
policy and striving to achieve three months, correct, first of all.

And secondly, if it's true that we're keeping in mind the FISA as part of that cushion, shouldn't
we start reporting, as an alternative, both numbers to give us an idea of how many days or weeks
we have as a reserve or for, let's call it liquidity, or whatever you want to. I'm just wanting not to
actually do both, get down to one month end and hit the FISA account. So I want to make sure
that if we do that, we're doing it very consciously and with a lot of forethought.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop. So regarding the first
question about the fiscal policy, yes, I would advise that we keep your fiscal policy that says that
we are always striving to maintain at least a three months' reserve. I would not recommend
lowering that, even though we have reflected that in this plan.
Again, this is a plan, and hopefully with that Board policy staying at three months, as we see
additional revenues coming in, the conversation will be we should probably be putting that into
our reserves, at least that should be in a priority for us. So my recommendation will be that we
keep that at three months in our fiscal policy because I think if you lower that, that will cause
other ramifications for us. And also, it does not make it clear that that's what the intent is, is to
get there.
Regarding the FISA as a reserve, I have shown it in previous presentations as part of the reserve.
However, I have footnoted that the Board, at this time, has a desire to try to keep those funds
available for future FasTracks quarters and operations cost and not touch that.
So we have not shown it as a percentage of operating costs for FasTracks, but we have shown it
as part of in the reserve figures but have footnoted that that particular internal savings account
should be used for FasTracks future projects and operations. So if the Board would like me to
show it definitely, I can. It's just we were trying to respect the sensitivity that people have with
the uses of that particular account.
SHELLY COOK: OK. The second thing is-- and I'm glad the Chair and others have stressed-we know we're talking about people. It's very difficult and in response to the news becoming
widely known or available to the operators and others who would be affected, we've been getting
a number of emails.
I had one from a constituent who is also an operator. He lives in District 3. And he wrote today
with a suggestion. It was just what if we go to a four-day workweek for a period of time instead
of laying people off? It would allow us to retain those folks, see what happens.
Whether or not that happens to be an alternative we can explore, have we sat down with the
union? Can we continue to do that? He's writing his own union leadership to urge that that be
something on the table. So I don't want to foreclose those kinds of ideas as they're coming up
with people considering what might happen.
So Bruce, can you respond to that, please?
BRUCE ABEL: I'll ask Michael to respond to it, given that he has had a majority of the
conversations, and then I'll chime in at the end.

MICHAEL FORD: Hi, this Michael Ford, COO. I think we can explore alternative options, to be
creative and then see what we can do. I think there's a willingness to discuss options and
opportunities. This is a new issue, and we are trying to do everything we can to be respectful of
the workforce, balance the financial issues, and, obviously, address our human capital in the
most proper way we can. So I'm open for the discussion, and we can see what that yields. But I
think there are opportunities to discuss a lot of different possibilities.
BRUCE ABEL: And I would add that I participated in a meeting with Michael where we did put
the concept of furloughs onto the table in order to spread the wealth. There was indicated, I
would say there is a willingness to discuss virtually anything, but it was not followed up in any
positive manner at this point in time.
SHELLY COOK: OK. No questions. I'll wait for the next round in terms of comments. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, Bruce, I want to thank
you and your team and Mr. Ballard for this incredible work. And I think it's painstaking and
painful and difficult it's caused me a lot of concern and grief, quite honestly, and I think many of
my colleagues share the same feelings. This is probably the most difficult time I've experienced
at my tenure on the Board, which is nearly over.
So that being said, I want staff, both represented and salary, to understand that this is a very
serious matter to us, and we take it seriously, and are very concerned about the well-being of our
employees. And in addition, I wanted to highlight that Bruce pointed out those folks who do get
laid off, unfortunately, will have as much support as RTD can muster to make sure that that
transition is less painful as possible.
With that, I just want to make a couple of comments. You know, I think it was the first
accountability meeting, that the governor's accountability group that's overseeing RTD, and he
was there at the meeting. And he encouraged this new committee who oversees things to look at
everything, that everything is on the table, including bankrupting and dismantling and selling off
the pieces and bits of RTD.
So I think that's a pretty drastic approach. We certainly don't want to see that. But I think we
need to be mindful that the financial well-being of this agency is critical moving forward. And it
was in bad shape before the pandemic, and now it's just an utter disaster and a crisis.
And also, Heather mentioned something that I thought was pretty interesting today, and it was
about the bond rating and Moody's and so on and so forth, and what they're thinking. It matters
what Wall Street thinks about this Board and the direction that we take and how we do things to
make sure that this agency is strong, financially strong and solvent, and that we can take care of
the people that do stay with us.

So I don't think it's fair that we ask 20% of our represented employees to be separated from RTD
without a bigger lion's share of the cuts going to our salaried employees, especially the ones at
the top. And I really will hope that we're going to have a robust conversation tonight regarding
the proposal submitted by Director Menten. I think it's a very valuable one, and while I hear 18%
sounds like an awful lot, I think that we could probably come to something that's more
meaningful.
And it matters. It matters to the stakeholders. It matters to the constituents. And it matters to the
employees, whether they've been separated or whether they stay. And it matters to how well we
are looked at in the industry and on Wall Street.
We need to fill up that reserve to the three months. It's never been fully funded since I've been on
the Board, and I think that's outrageous. So we need to get things in line. And maybe we need to
do more cuts on the administrative side and look at them very closely. We took on a lot of
contractors that should have gone away when the contract was over, but we absorbed those
employees. I think that was reckless and irresponsible.
With regard to the two-year plan or the six-year plan, it seems to make sense to go with a twoyear plan. And in the coming months or the coming year, sales tax revenue and ridership
increases, then the revenues increase, that's great. Take care of the FISA, take care of the
reserves, and pay off the debt and improve our bond rating and show Wall Street we're worthy of
investing in.
And that CRP isn't $29 million coming to us. It's half of that. The other half goes to the city and
county of Denver. So we don't even know when we're going to get that money, and it'll be great.
And if we get money from the CARES Act, so that's wonderful, too. But we need to shore up our
financial well-being.
So I think that's pretty much all I have to say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just to be clear, are you just asking for
questions or questions and comments at this point? What are we-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So this first round is what's on your mind? What are you
feeling? And then I'll go back again, and then we'll do a straw poll at the end.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So comments-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So this is your first shot at the apple.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not sure everybody was understanding that, but thank you. You
know, in terms of the fare revenues and how we project those going out-- let me back up and just
say that Heather spent an hour with me yesterday. I really appreciate that. And Bruce has spent
time also. And Bruce has done a really great job, I think, presenting all of this, both tonight and
to the accountability committee the other day and some of the legislative leadership. And I think
that all of that is helpful.
I share Director Folska's, well, several people's statements that this is such a painful thing to look
at and to consider. We know that these are people's lives, and I would join others in encouraging
talking with the union about layoffs or four-day workweeks or bringing drivers back as TSO's or
whatever the other options are. I'm glad to see the number going down, and I encourage any of
those things.
In terms of the fare revenue going down and the numbers that we picked, I'm not sure I
understand the service return in those out years. Is there a plan for returning service that matches
up with the 60% fare revenues, 60% and then 65 and 75 and 80 or something along those lines?
How does that match with returning service?
BRUCE ABEL: I would say that no, there are not funds available for the expansion of service,
but as we look at service today, we're carrying 40% of our ridership and have 60% of our service
on the street. So we have excess capacity at our current service levels for ridership to grow. It is
not until the out years that we would anticipate and buy out years. I'm talking the tail end of the
six-year period that we're actually looking to have funding available to be growing service back.
Does that answer the question?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. I would just add to that if you look at the charts, in '24
through '26 is when we have funds available in the base system to be able to address that if the
board would choose. But we did not make that assumption at this point in time, that the Board
would choose to use that for service. But we had to make some assumptions around revenue, so
depending on the length of time, we'll have to review that and whether the Board wants to use
those dollars to offset the shortfalls in FasTracks for 2024 through '26.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And in terms of the reductions, the service line in FasTracks
was, I think it was very small, $3.7 million, something like that. And on the base, it was $76,
almost $77 million. What all goes into that? Is that assuming, I'm sure, much larger service cuts?
But you said the FasTracks came in much lower than you expected. Are there fewer cuts to
FasTracks than you were expecting in terms of service? What happened there?
BRUCE ABEL: Well, in terms of our service hours, the vast majority of our service hours are
attributable to base systems services. So really, the only quote FasTracks services that we have in
O and M are things such as the W line, light rail with the first FasTracks rail, the R line, the
SERE extension. And so those services are attributable to FasTracks and so we can effectuate
some service reductions there. But in terms of our overall service plan, that's a very, very small
percentage.

Another issue that impacts this is the commuter rail service. The commuter rail service, due to
the nature of our existing contract, while we can reduce service, does not generate actual dollar
savings unless we are able to renegotiate that contract, which this individual would put in a plug
for at this point in time. But that's another thing that really impacts our ability to generate cost
savings on the FasTracks side of the ledger. So it's not that more cuts are coming in on the base
system. It's that the base system constitutes the vast majority of our service offering.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you very much. And this I just learned this afternoon, so
I'm kind of going out without having my facts really straight, but we've talked about the
possibility of a loss of some of the sales tax-- which is coming in much better than we expected-due to the end of the $600 weekly federal supplement.
I believe that the state is about to start a $300 weekly supplement. I think it's limited. It might be
just three or four weeks, and it's going to be paid out for, I believe, in arrears for some of the
people who were unemployed in August.
But that, I guess I'm noting that maybe-- I don't know if you can speak to that, Ms. McKillop-but I think it could mean August is down a little. September might go back up. It's just something
worth looking at.
And I think that these numbers, where we've gone from the $166 million to the $215 million-and I talked with Heather about this today-- since we know that sales tax is coming in much
better than we expected-- I believe you said that we're up $45 million just through July-- so
potentially that's pushing $80, $90 million even more by December, by the end of the year.
And I'm not sure what that means for the 2021 numbers, except that we might end the year with
a lot of money here. So I think that rather than passing an MTFP with number-- and I'd say one
other thing is that my understanding, I believe you said Ms. McKillop, is the 2021 budget will be
based on the new projections from Leeds that you'll be getting next week.
So rather than passing an MTFP that we know is not based on the numbers that we're seeing and
is looking at this $250 million deficit that probably will change, I would encourage that we hold
off. I think along the lines of what Director Catlin was suggesting, that we pass the budget and
the MTFP with numbers using the same projections.
And I know, Ms McKillop, that your team is working really hard, so I would end-- it sounded
like you were OK with not passing the MTFP or doing it later. I don't want to put words in your
mouth. I guess that's partially a question. But I would suggest that we hold off. We get the
budget numbers for 2021. We take that out for 2022 and pass a one-year budget and a two-year
MTFP at the same time or about the same time delayed from now.
Any reaction to that, Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop so I think that the Director Buzek talked a
little bit about that, too, on that maybe we could put off adoption of the MTFP until we also

adopted the budget and do that at the same time in November, and I am fine with looking at that
option.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And I would just add that some of you listened to the
Accountability Committee on Monday, but they were also encouraging that idea of passing a
shorter term MTFP. We didn't talk about it in terms of delaying or any of those things, but right
now there's just so much uncertainty that limiting it to two years makes a lot of sense. Thanks. I
can finish comments and all of that later.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sorry. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a few questions for you, Bruce, and
these are actually similar to the questions that I asked when I was first presented this
information. So for the furloughs, as well as for the layoffs, if you could provide to me the
disaggregated data for race, gender, and length of time at the agency, and age as well. I am
curious of that.
I know we talked about ensuring that this is equitable, and we were thinking about equity as we
were making these suggestions inside, appreciate that data. I also am curious-- you talked about
the defined benefit plan, but you didn't attach any cost savings to them, and I'm curious as the-I'm curious of the cost savings for that specific one.
BRUCE ABEL: If I can start with the answer to your first question comment, we are currently
just beginning the analysis of the disparate impact, and so that data is not in the position to be
provided right now. But I can refer back over to Melanie, who is engaged in that process.
Melanie Snyder of General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So
Director Lewis, I'm happy to talk with you a little bit more offline, but right now we are not-- the
disparate impact analysis will be done at the very end, when we have more definite numbers. So
it's not appropriate at this time right now to include that type of information as part of our
consideration. Those are expressly not part of our considerations right now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So that's really important to me that we are taking-- that our approach
is through a lens of equity, and so I would prefer to not have that information at the end. I would
prefer to have that information sooner rather than later because that is something that I think
should be a determining factor in our approach. And so I appreciate that. And in the same vein, I
know, Bruce, you've talked about us having 40% ridership and 60% service. And we're planning
to keep this intact I wonder, from an equity perspective, Title VI specifically, if there there's
going to be an equity analysis in keeping this 60% reduction.
BRUCE ABEL: I guess I'll answer in two parts to that question. One, as part of the January
service change, we do have a consultant lined up to do the Title VI equity analysis of the January
proposals.

The other element, I would suggest is that as we've discussed in the couple of times previously is
that the COVID reduction policies are guided-- let's see, what exactly are they titled-- the Budget
Reduction Principles that the Board provided, number 3, we'll prioritize mobility for people who
most depend on transit during the pandemic. We will strive to maximize mobility during the
pandemic for those customers who most depend on our service to access essential jobs and other
necessities.
That is very much at the forefront of our thinking as we are proposing the January service
changes. And so I think that as you see the proposals, which will be presented next week for
socialization, that you will see that we are very much focused on redeploying resources from
areas that have service right now that are not being used and proposing the redeployment of
those to areas where routes are being well used by folks in communities where folks rely on
transit to get to essential jobs. And that, in general, correlates pretty highly with the equity issue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Cool. Thank you. You said you were going to answer the second
question as well.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. I will answer the pension and the plan
question. So we actually [AUDIO OUT] plan and we have one defined contribution plan. So on
the represented pension plan, that is currently in the contract through March, and we will be
negotiating that contract soon. But currently, the RTD contributes $6.2 million lump sum at the
beginning of the year, and then 13% of the salaries for the represented employee.
We then, on the salaried pension plan, that is a lump sum contribution. When the plan closed in
2008, we currently contribute right around $6 million. The plan is to continue that contribution,
not lower it, but not increase it as we have been doing. We've been increasing it between 500,000
and a million dollars per year to try to keep the plan solvent long term.
And then we have the salaried defined contribution plan, which is not a pension plan. It is a flat
percentage contribution, and right now that contribution for 2020 is at 9%. We're recommending
it go down to 7%. There would be savings there before the layoffs and the furloughs. That was
estimated to be right around a million dollars. It is something less than that, and I would have to
give you that exact number right now. I don't have it handy.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Think you, Heather, that's helpful. For the defined benefit plan, I was
specifically asking about that you said it was a lump sum, and I was curious as to the cost
savings.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: For the salaried pension plan? It is a lump sum, and we are
recommending that we keep the same amount that we did for 2020, so there would not be
savings there, but we would not increase that amount as we have been doing.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful to know. Thank you. And then the second question I
have for you, with the defined contribution plan, with the recommendation from 9% to 7%, what
might it look like from 9% to 5% or 9% to 3%?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry. Could you repeat that question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
BRUCE ABEL: What would it look like if we went to 5% instead of 7%?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, I don't know.
BRUCE ABEL: This is what seven is.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think I hear someone saying it's a-- if you wanted to repeat it at the end.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, so you were asking if we went to 5% versus 9%, what the
savings would be? I don't know. I have not done that calculation. We would have to look at that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, 5% and 3%, if you could look at those scenarios to determine the cost
savings.
BRUCE ABEL: And Director Lewis, this is Bruce. So what I was pointing out, as Heather
alluded, it's between $900,000 and a million savings by going from 9 to 7.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Correct.
BRUCE ABEL: Those are the parameters of the existing plan documents. We did not look at
changing the plan documents because what we were looking at doing is finding a path that we
could implement in the short term to impact the 2021 budget, as opposed to looking at a longerterm issue that would involve bringing on actuarial folks and looking to change plan documents
and things like that. That's why we haven't run the numbers because 7% is the lower limit in the
existing plan documents.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I'll put a pin in that, then. Thank you, Bruce. I appreciate that. And we
spoke about additional benefits, and I didn't see it show up here, and so maybe [AUDIO OUT]
here benefits and I was curious if those changes were going to stay, if those are no longer part of
the conversation.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I apologize. You were going in and out. What benefits?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Health care, no Kaiser and Cigna.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So we did look at health care benefits. We did get quotes. Kaiser
stayed the same. Cigna went up approximately 12% to 13%, I believe. The Board may remember
that the Board had asked this several years ago to phase in Cigna so that it was at an amount-- the
contribution from RTD was a similar amount to what we were contributing for Kaiser.
When we looked at doing that, the amount of the increase plus the 12% increase for Cigna was
so significant that those people would be forced out of their plans. I believe it was close to $150

a pay period difference, which is significant. So we decided not to have those employees absorb
that, and so there will not be cost savings associated with the health care plan that we're
recommending at this time.
In fact, it's a couple hundred thousand dollars expense to cover some of those increases. So we're
not anticipating in 2021 savings from that, and we're carefully monitoring that because we're
trying to still continue to provide options. There are issues with going to one provider as far as
then them having a monopoly with this organization. And so we were trying to walk that fine
line of passing those costs onto the employee, the additional costs, while at the same time trying
to still maintain two health plans.
We have discussed going out the last couple years for-- we're getting a new broker this year, and
so we'll be discussing with that broker to relook at all of our health plans starting in 2021. But at
this time, the costs were minimal to keep it the way it was, but there is not anticipated to be
savings.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right, thank you. So one of the things I've been interested in is the
ridership, what our ridership was looking at by class, particularly with what we are seeing in
ridership on our bus and on our rate?
BRUCE ABEL: Right now-- and I wish I had Jessie's paper in front of me-- our ridership, the
most market decreases have been on-- have been on regional service and on light rail service. We
have seen reductions in ridership of 75% to 85% of our regional Flatiron Flyer and rail services
because those services are very commuter-centric, and we are no longer seeing the commuter
market. People are continuing to work from home, and so we've had the greatest drop in
ridership on regional services, Flatiron Flyer, and Light Rail services.
Our local bus service has seen ridership reductions of about 45% to 55%, so less than on the
regionals and rail because those tend to be the routes that people are continuing to ride because
they depend on transit to get to essential jobs.
It goes back to the earlier comments about we expect to be beefing those up-- the
recommendation would be to be beefing those up with the January Runboard because those have
been the routes where ridership has been retained. If we look at a graph of our times of travel, we
no longer have a two-humped camel because there is no longer a morning and an afternoon peak.
We now have more of a whale, with a single hump. That's in the sort of mid afternoon.
Does that answer your question, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, it does. It's very helpful. Yeah, sure. So I have-- would you like me to
wait for a recommendations?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, could I go the second round?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, thank you. I hope folks can hear me. You never know with technology.
I wanted to thank Bruce and Heather and all their teams working on this. Because so incredibly
difficult with everything changing. You know, I'm hearing static. Are other people hearing that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah if everybody could use their microphones, please.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Well, the first was just thanking Bruce and Heather and their team
for all the hard work. And the other general comment I wanted to make was that whatever
comment I do make, they have nothing to do with judgments about poor performance. They have
to do with decisions that I think need to be made to keep RTD sustainable in the fairest and most
appropriate way possible.
I would like to see, I think as Director Buzek suggested, that the mid-term budget and the regular
budget be put out the farthest extent possible at the end of the year because things are changing
so much, I really think that we need to have the most up-to-date figures basing the budget on,
and that would be my suggestion.
But in addition, I have another suggestion that, I don't know , might not be super popular, but I
think it's necessary that would also take some time. And I am concerned about the managementemployee staff ratio and whether that's the most appropriate percentage for the agency. I don't
know if there's really one management for every two employees. I don't know if management is
30% of the entire district. I don't know if that's true, but if it is true, it doesn't seem like that
would probably be the most productive use of our resources.
So I personally think it would be useful to see if we could get somebody from outside to very
quickly-- not a six-month plan-- but very quickly come in and look at our staffing and see if our
management percentage and our staffing hierarchy is appropriate or isn't. And if it seems
obviously top heavy, then that's something that we really need to look at in terms of our layoff. I
think it's something that is part of the elephant in the room that I really would like to see looked
at, so I make that suggestion. And that's one of the reasons I'd like to see the budget put off till
the last date possible.
And similarly, I think it would be terrific for our management and unions to get together and talk
about-- since we know, we know there is a huge deficit, what creative ideas could the unions live
with that would save jobs by doing things creatively, such as working four days a week or
whatever? Maybe that wouldn't fly, but I think we have to try everything. To me, everybody's job
is really precious, and the fact that we might have to cut so many is very distressing. It's
distressing to all of us.
So my particular goal is to keep the agency afloat, but do it with as little layoff as we possibly
could do because these are members of our family, our work family. So in light of that, I
personally think that we should do some tradeoff. And the tradeoff would be having some salary

cuts and the money that would be saved from those cuts could be used to keep employees and to
reduce the amount of layoffs.
And I was personally thinking of it would be tiered. So $150,000 and above-- which is a very
hefty salary and above-- 15% salary cuts for a year. $100,000 to $149,000 would be 10%. 60 to
99 thousand would be 5%.
Personally, I'm not in favor of furloughs. I could live with it on the lower salary end, but I think
that we need all of our workers doing all of our work to move our organization forward through
this very difficult time. And that's my personal take on it.
And one additional thing, the pension contribution, the salaried pension contribution, I know
we're not increasing it, but I'm just wondering, in terms of that tradeoff that I'm talking about, if
we could reduce it without causing the whole thing to be very negatively impacted. For this next
year, which I call hell year, it's something to think about. If you could save a million or two, and
that could save some people's jobs, at least temporarily, it's worth thinking about, at least as far
as I'm concerned.
So I would recommend the two-year. I think the six-year is just asking for trouble because
everything is changing, and I don't want that trouble that I'm seeing off in the distance. It may be
worse in the reality. It may be less bad. We just don't know, and it seems silly to bring that
problem on ourselves.
I don't know if there's anything else I needed to answer. I think-- no that's it. Anyway, thank you
for listening to me. I appreciate it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten, you have the
floor.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I'm going to speak to a proposal that I did share with
Board members. I've also provided it to Bruce Abel, to Paul Ballard. And I know we have a large
audience tonight, so I want to cover this with a little more detail for their benefit to know what
we were talking-- what other Board directors talked about when they said Director Menten has a
suggestion. And there were other Board directors who were also involved in putting this
together.
But what this does is it talks to the issue of the furlough days for the non-represented. And the
proposal itself is in tiered brackets, depending on the salary range. Where this starts is at the very
top of the non-represented. This would be at top management at RTD.
So when you've heard the 18% reduction, this only applies to the top tier. And for reference, for
those who don't know about our salary structure at RTD, what this includes for the proposed
18% reduction, is it covers right now 14 positions. These 14 positions that would be suggested
for 18% reduction, right now are earning between $180,000 to $260,000 per year plus benefits.

The next tier in this proposal is lower. The salary range for this next tier is between $100,000 and
$179,999. And for this tier, the suggestion is to reduce the salaries by 13%. Now there are 234
positions that fall within this $100,000 to $179,999.
The third tier drops to less, and then this third tier, it would be a 7% reduction in compensation.
This covers those within the salary range of $60,000 to $99,999. There are 497 people within
that range.
There is a fourth tier that is not affected by this proposal to reduce compensation. And that is the
non-represented employees at RTD, and that is those who are earning $59,999 and below. And
for a rough figure there, because we do have some part-time and full-time, but that's roughly 160
people within that bracket. So as this proposal got circulated around, I did hear some questions.
And there were a couple of reasons for doing this. One is the obvious-- budget talks that we have
going on right now. But the other reason that this came up is because of concerns about if we do
the furlough days, what we are saying is-- just to put it down into numbers-- is that we are
talking about thousands of hours less productivity, less hours on the job, less hours answering the
phone when a rider calls, less hours of inner departmental communications. And right now, even
with staff adjustment, which I think a big reason they're coming back with this change, is
because of these alternatives, we're still looking at probably around 30,000 less hours serving the
district with the furlough plan.
Now I have had questions about where did the 18% come from? A real easy explanation,
although there is more behind it, but a real easy explanation is that the top earners at RTD earn
far more than the top managers at the Colorado Department of Transportation. And if we're
going to look at apples to apples, I feel that's a fairly comparable two data sets-- job roles.
And so for those, again, 14 positions, that would be set at 18% reduction, that 18% reduction
aligns those 14 positions with those in the Colorado Department of Transportation, and they may
be looking at some-- I mean, look-- we just heard from Denver. They're going to be going
through massive budget cuts. This is starting to hit a lot of public agencies. Some started to
address this earlier in the year. We've been a little bit slow, perhaps, in taking the big bites of the
apple that we need to take.
So where did 18% come from? It's really getting it aligned with CDoT. But then tomorrow there
will be a proposal submitted. And in this proposal to do this reduction, one way or another-- it
may be a couple of different proposals-- I was asked by at least one other Board Director to
please put together a list of other public and private agencies that have reduced compensation.
And within those, you'll see a wide range of what has happened in the public and the private
sector. But it is not rare at all to see a 15% or 20%, and in some cases even more, because the top
management knew the pain that was being felt in the lower ends of the salary range because in
many of these cases, the threat of furlough was a problem that was arising, or it's already taken
place.

I mean, if you look at New York, what they're going to be looking at-- I mean, 22,000 potential
pink slips. You'll start to see more and more of these agencies. So in summary, with that, I
wanted to let the public know that this was not too drastic of a change, especially when we were
talking on that top tier.
Again, our top tier at RTD making $180,000 to $260,000, and to be cut 18% when we are getting
ready to lay off, with these new numbers, approximately 537 people, and when staff is really
trying to present an option that reduces 30,000 hours of support time for the district, for the
riders, I think this is a good compromise with the three tiers. Again, those making $60,000 just
under $100,000, it's a 7% reduction.
And I can't see how that is difficult to swallow considering our circumstances and the fact that if
you were to look around a room-- let's say you're over in Platte division or in Blake, and just like
you look around and say well, who might be laid off? And if you were looking at a 7% reduction
or in those higher income earners-- $100,000 to $179,999-- to take a 13% cut, especially with
our generous benefits? I don't think that's harsh. I think it's a reasonable step to take.
And then the discussion comes up well where do we put the money? Because what staff proposal
is for these furlough options is just under $2 million. And again, we have the loss of, I'm
estimating, 30,000 hours, in taking this plan, with the 18%, 13%, 7% reduction, instead of 1.9
million, which is, that's no small change there, but for those who are listening, what this plan
does with 18%, to 13%, and the 7%, is it takes it up to about a $7 million savings.
So what can we do with that extra money? We can have a really healthy discussion. For me, I'm
very concerned about the reserves. And with the fact that even the creditors are concerned, we
should be-- what household would we tell to live to-- your goal is three months? I don't know
anybody that would tell a household that that's a good goal. And now we're going to be sitting at
one month?
The service redeployment, I don't think that's on the radar for a lot of people out in the public.
But what that means is that area out in the suburban areas, that service is going to go away. We
don't have all the details. We'll have that for next week. But the more money that we can find
tonight and not give up the 30,000 hours.
So just consider this. As we're laying off people, right, there's workloads still remains. So those
who are lucky enough to stay are very likely going to have more work. So why would we reduce
30,000 hours of service productivity?
That is why I think this plan to reduce at a higher level is justified. It's in the best interest of the
riders. It's in the best interest of the district. And I don't think it's too harsh. For anybody who is
keeping an eye on the job market, it's not the same scenario as a year ago.
And when we started this discussion tonight, it was mentioned that this is due to COVID. Now
the reality is, last year November, Ms. McKillop stated to us there is no way that we can
continue to operate and maintain our system unless we make changes. And that was months
before COVID was a word we even knew about.

So I hope that's answered some questions. I hope that the audience, which is listening, has a little
more understanding of this proposal, and I would hope that some of the Board would look
towards the percentages that are presented and consider that we do have room, potentially, for
negotiation. But I think to say that our top folks making $180,000 to $260,000 should be taking a
7 and 1/2% reduction in light of hundreds of layoffs is unbelievable. Just unbelievable.
All right. I know I get round two, so I'll wait if I have something more then. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MILHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Can you hear me all right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
KEN MILHALIK: Well that's a tough appeal to follow, but I'm of the same mind as Director
Menten that a year ago, to say that ridership would drop 60% in the course of just a couple of
months would have seen inconceivable, in addition to the additional topics that are being covered
tonight, the significant layoffs. And so I guess just as a matter of comparison, the furlough idea
that Directors Cook and Lubow hoped that the idea of a four-day workweek versus a five, that
would be a 20% reduction.
And that's on the-- that would apply towards, I would imagine the lower salary side. And so
that's far in excess of what Director Menten just laid out. And then also if you look at the labor
market, I mean, restaurants and lots of other retail places are just-- the layoff or the reduction, the
salary reduction is 100% for many people with no hopes of coming back and no assistance, no
placement assistance and things like that going forward. And so it is bleak out there.
And unfortunately, while some of the early numbers or the most recent numbers look more
positive than what we had projected, that's also on the back of the federal government just
printing $6, $7 trillion. And so it's really the sky-- it's really washed over the real impact, just by
this helicopter money out into the economy. And so it's hard to-- I think we have to keep that in
mind that when that dries up or goes away or whatever, that's we'll not have the same sales tax
collection benefit from that.
But just some observations, and also, yeah, the Fitch report that Ms. McKillop had talked about
earlier, she and I talked earlier in the day, and I just wonder also if we told them that the FISA
account should not be considered the cash account. That it if it were locked away, that they
should not even recognize it as being available for a savings account or the liquidity function.
I wonder also what effect that would have because right now they're considering it as this liquid
account. And I know there's people and jurisdictions that would like to see it locked away and
not available. And I guess that's all I've got for now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Okay. Thank you, Director Milhalik. Director Tisdale, you have
the floor.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I have a question first for Bruce Abel,
just I think, to clarify the record. I believe this is what was intended, but I don't know that it was
what I heard.
We talked about, relative to the layoffs, that we would have as proposed by the COVID task
force, 429 are represented employees in filled or occupied positions laid off, and that constituted
20% of the occupied positions for represented employees.
And I believe when we talked about the salaried employees, he mentioned that it was 13% of
salaried employees. I am assuming-- and I just want to clarify for the record-- that's 13% of the
filled or occupied positions on the salaried side. Can you verify that, please?
BRUCE ABEL: That is correct, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. I agree with the observation-- I think it was Director
Buzek-- the data is ever changing or the data are ever changing, and it's really very frustrating to
do any of this. That is why, when looking at a two-year plan versus a six-year plan, I appreciate
having the information. I was one of the people who said please provide the information that a
six-year plan would show. But I definitely believe that we cannot, and it would be irresponsible,
I submit, to do a six-year plan at this point. I even have a question as to whether a two-year plan
is appropriate at this point in time.
And I know the discussion has been had relative to well, maybe we approve both the 2021
budget and a two-year mid-term financial plan in November and proceed that way. And we
pushed our budget approval back last year, as you will all recall. The problem with doing that, I
think, is that we are directing our Chief Financial Officer and her staff to work on a lot of
moving variables, moving parts, and that it may be best if they just focused on the budget for
2021, and that we take the consideration of a mid-term financial plan and deal with that next
year.
I hate to sound like I'm kicking the can down the road. The difference is this is a road none of us
have ever traveled. And if you just take the normal analogy of kicking it down the road, you
assume it's at least in a generally straight direction. That's not true now, so we can't say that. So I
think that a consideration for us is do we want simply to defer the concept of a mid-term
financial plan because there is no requirement relative to the TIP and look instead of just crafting
a workable 2021 budget?
The other discussion has focused on the salary reductions, whether it's by furlough and salary
reductions combined for a net equivalent economics that we've discussed earlier or whether it's
just a flat salary reduction on a tiered basis as has been described. I submit that, I think, the
proposal by staff is good in its heart, but it may be a little light. I think the recommendation by
Director Menten, I know, is good in its heart, but I also think it's a little heavy. And so I think
that we would have to look at something, perhaps, between those two in order to make me feel
more comfortable with how we're approaching this.

The other comment has been made relative to the disparity between the percentage of salaried
employees who would be affected by this reduction in force and the represented employees who
would be affected by this reduction in force. And I don't know that they have to be equal, but I
think they have to be more balanced than what we're seeing.
I think to say 13% versus 20% sends a very negative message not only to the represented
employees, but also to the general public, our constituents, our stakeholders, our tax payers.
Lance Longenbohn, the president of the ATU, sent us a very considered and comprehensive
analysis of all of this, and I think there were some valid points there. So I would nearly
incorporate by reference that discussion.
I do, as my last point here and then I'll stop, I do want to emphasize and expand upon Bruce's
footnote that he gave. It was good. It was appropriate and adequate, but I think it was really
almost dealt with as a footnote concerning what we're going to do regarding these displaced
workers. And that, to me, is a critical part of this entire process when we're talking about having
a reduction in force that impacts anybody,
I believe that we need to pledge and perform that we're going to provide assistance and support
to these displaced workers. And that will be in the form of a severance package and the employer
assistance program, as discussed, and placement services so that we can take steps to guarantee a
job for these people. That's a hard word, isn't it? Guaranteed. But I think if we're guaranteeing
them that we're going to stop paying them, I think we make all possible efforts to guarantee them
that we're going to replace that in some reasonable fashion. That's what we have to do.
And we have to work on the recall provisions. We need to work collaboratively with the union to
provide a robust recall program. I know that the UAW and the Teamsters did that many years
ago when I was a teamster. And I negotiated a contract with the steelworkers where we did the
same thing. So I know that we need the collaboration and the cooperation of the union, and I
know that we need to lead by example in setting up a proposal for a recall program that will
bring these people back in the shortest possible term.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker, you have the
floor.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I have a couple of questions. I'm wondering if you have the costs
available for the follow service, where you have the bus mid-trip ready to pick up passengers
[AUDIO OUT] left [AUDIO OUT].
BRUCE ABEL: Director Walker, you're breaking up pretty badly.
JEFF WALKER: OK, sorry. Can you hear me now?
BRUCE ABEL: Yeah, thank you.

JEFF WALKER: OK. So I am wondering if you have the cost of the follow-up service, where
the bus sits midway, so at some point midway on a trip that picks up passengers that had to be
passed by the lead bus?
BRUCE ABEL: I do not have that handy, but we can certainly take a look at it. We have records
as to how often follower service was deployed. But again, the cost of that has been absorbed by
the CARES Act, which under current scenario, is going bye-bye.
JEFF WALKER: Right Yes, so I'm wondering-- well, I'm guessing we won't be able to keep that
if there's not some future act.
BRUCE ABEL: We'll what we can find.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thank you. For Ms. McKillop, I'm wondering how much the credit rating
matters if we don't have any projects that were bonded or does it affect re-issuance of bonds
we're refinancing?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So yes, it does matter to us quite a bit.
One, because we're constantly looking at opportunities to do refinancing. The private activity
bonds, the DPP, is an example. They'll be using our conduit issuer status to do that which
improves their ratings to be able to issue the bonds. And also, our bonds are sold on a secondary
market and the rating is pretty important there also. So our goal to keep those ratings as high as
possible is pretty important.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. One other question-- what's the capacity of bus operations under the
proposal before additional operators will be needed? So does 60% of ridership equals 60% of
service or does 60% of service handle 70% of ridership pre-COVID?
BRUCE ABEL: We are currently providing approximately 60% of our pre-COVID service
hours, and that's focused more on bus. It's higher than that on rail. And our current ridership is
approximately 40% of pre-COVID ridership levels across the system.
JEFF WALKER: Right. So if ridership were to climb to 70%, can that still be handled by 60% of
the hours?
BRUCE ABEL: It would probably really depend on how that ridership was spread. Again, right
now, we do not have peaks. And so I would anticipate that the January service changes will be
less peak oriented than previously. So again, I think how the ridership response is spread out
temporally would really determine how we can or cannot respond in the near term.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. And the reason I'm asking is because I know folks in my small circle,
the people that I talk to now, who are going back, who have been called back to the office. I
heard on the radio today that Chase Bank is calling its employees back-- a good number of them
[AUDIO OUT] started Monday.

I don't know if that affects Denver or just [AUDIO OUT] different markets, but it seems that
businesses are opening up. Office workers are heading back to the office. More people are
driving, but the number of spots, at least downtown, because of all the office construction
activity that is eating up a lot of these public parking spaces.
So I guess my concern is that there might be a big influx-- I don't know what big means [AUDIO
OUT] but there might be an influx of riders or demand, and we might not have the available staff
to meet that demand with the cuts that [AUDIO OUT]. So anyway, so that's it.
I'll just run through my preferences [AUDIO OUT] on the second round. So with the furlough
plan, I'm OK with how it-- with what staff has presented. I'd much rather see a two-year plan
than a six-year plan-- well, I'm sorry, a two-year plan than one-year plan. I'd rather see a six-year
plan, but if there aren't staff resources available to develop a six-year plan, I think it serves the
agency-- us, the Board-- well to see a two-year plan, mostly because it leads into-- 2021 will lead
into what-- it'll set up what is proposed to occur in 2022.
Just like anybody who drives, you don't look right in front of you. You look way down the road
to anticipate that person might run that red light or might run that stop sign. That deer might
jump out at you from the bushes [AUDIO OUT]. So I think it behooves us to look out as far as
we reasonably can, and I think in this instance, I think one year extra, 2022, is definitely
reasonable if, if there is staff resources that's [AUDIO OUT].
And for how to fund that, if we were to go for it out in six years, '24 to '26 shortfall, I'm fine with
using reserves, although I know it hurts our bond rating. I think hurting our customers would be
a bigger hit to the reputation and the [AUDIO OUT]. We just-- we've made strides to regain the
trust of our customers, and I'd hate to see that disappear because we can't meet the demand out
there. So whatever resources we have, financial resources [AUDIO OUT] whatever pot of
money, whatever pot of funds we have, I think that should be available [AUDIO OUT] for the
services. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Is that it, Director Walker? Thank you. Director
Whitmore
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a point to Director Menten's plan, I didn't
get a chance to follow up with her today due to the regular schedules out there. Perhaps on her
second bite of the apple, she could talk a little bit more about the comparables she was
mentioning because I do think Transit needs to be in that group. And perhaps the New York
reference was the transit agency, but I wasn't clear about that. But I would certainly want to see
transit, not just departments of transportation and other agencies just because of the uniqueness
of the service that we provide. And I do echo Director Tisdale's thoughts on that plan. I think
there may be is a blend from the furlough plan that Bruce had unveiled today to us and perhaps
Director Menten's ideas. I guess, Madam Chair, I'm unclear. Do you want our preferences now or
on a second bite? I don't care, and I definitely will be brief, but I'm a little confused on-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I'm actually thinking this is your time to be able to just ask
questions and is there anything on your mind from the presentation and hearing from other board

members that you need more information on? And then we'll go back around and actually have
specifics for people and then do the straw poll.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. I appreciate that. I don't think that I have any more questions at
this point. The breadth of questions and ideas have been remarkable by my colleagues, and I
truly appreciate that. And thank you to Bruce and Heather for their presentation. That's all for me
for now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Williams, you have the floor.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. One of the advantages to going toward the end
of the alphabet is that you get to make lots of notes, and so I have a lot of comments that may
require some feedback from some of the other Board members.
The first one I had is when Director Lewis was asking about the [INAUDIBLE] disparate impact
analysis, I was under the impression that she was asking about that disparate impact on our
employees and not just on our riders because the bulk of those are through the union, and I don't
know how much affect we have on those. I believe that the union has its rights to lay off those
that they want to lay off as they want to lay them off. So I was just wondering about that, and I
think we can talk about that offline.
I also wanted to point out that Director Tisdale mentioned that we received some commentary
from Lance Longenbohn, who's representing the union, but I also want to point out that he's not
an RTD employee, and he's not personally affected by any of this. He works for the union, and
so how we deal with this makes no difference to what he eats for breakfast. It might make a
difference to people that he represents, but not to him [AUDIO OUT].
I also want to point out something called shadow effect, which says that it's possible that
ridership will never come back to where it was in the past. That has been true in other industries
when they have had serious cuts of this type. And so I think that what happens is that people
adjust. We as humans are infinitely able to make adjustments. And so I think that anybody who's
looking for us to go back to where we used to be before is not looking at the reality of today, and
I'd like to see us look at the reality of today.
I spent a lot of time looking at Director Menten's proposal, and I am 400% behind it. I think that
our senior management makes an outrageous amount of money, which is not to say that they're
not great people and that they haven't done great work. But in a relative sense to others in this
region and in this industry, they make a lot of money.
I work in the nonprofit industry. I have for years. And I once found myself in a position where
we had not managed our agency well, and we were called in-- all 150 or 180 people, whatever
there were in the agency at that time-- and told that one out of every five people were going to be
laid off. And a bunch of us stood up and said, we'll take a 20% cut in pay so that everybody
around us can have a job.

And I haven't heard anybody at RTD doing that yet, but I would really like to because I'd rather
see everybody take home a little less money, even if it's 20% less money, than have a bunch of
people be unemployed. If we furlough people, the work still remains. Then we are penalizing our
riders and our taxpayers because we've just laid people off for a day or two and let them come
back, and the work hasn't changed any. So I am opposed to furloughs and would rather see a cut
in pay.
What other notes? I guess we're going to come back to a vote or a straw poll on things. About a
two-year mid-term plan, I think that nine months ago, we could not have projected where we are
today. Nobody had any idea. It's like a science fiction novel. And for us to look at anything
further than a two-year plan is, I think, bad fiscal management I think that I am in favor of
postponing it as long as we can to get as much information back as we can.
And then I have one more piece of bad news. Right now, our employees, a certain percentage of
them that are part of the DC plan, get 9% of their salary contributed to their pension every year,
and they themselves make no contribution. RTD makes that contribution. And there has been
some talk tonight about reducing that to 7% instead of 9%.
I'd like to see it stay at 9% and have the employees match it. So that whatever they put in is
whatever RTD will put in. That's a savings on our part and a commitment on their part. So rather
than have people who are accustomed to having 9% of their salary deposited in a savings account
for them every year, I'd like to see them still have that but have them contribute to it.
And I think that's all of my stuff for now. Thank you for letting me have the floor for a few
moments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. You know, this is such an
important topic that we're dealing with, and we've been talking for quite a long time. But what I
would really like to do now, before we do the straw poll on all of these questions, is to have
everybody go back around and if there's anything else they want to bring forward or discuss or
ask question on, let's do it.
We've gotten a lot of information. You've heard your colleagues. I'm thinking that a lot of stuff
has been answered. But I do want to go back around to make sure that you feel comfortable with
this before we do the straw poll. I'm going to start with Director Broom. Do you have any
additional comments or questions?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. You probably recall back in March when we started
on this journey, I said we've got our feet firmly planted in quicksand. And that, you know,
everything that we thought we knew, we don't know. And so we still stay in that position today.
It's like we got some recent information today about sales tax revenues, and the sales tax
numbers looks real good.
But I'd like to remind the Board that what we did is we told them when they adjusted the 2020
budget, that they use the Leeds worst-case projection. So naturally, instead of using the midpoint

projection that we've always done in the past. So that gave us kind of a false feeling of good, that
the sales tax is really coming back, but I don't know that that's really the case.
And I think we discussed some of the things that are going on now, like the $600 a week
unemployment supplement from the federal government going away, the $1,200 cash payments
to everybody going away. That's held up sales tax pretty well. So we're not going to know for the
next couple of months how that's going to play out.
And for that reason, I think going with a two-year plan rather than a six-year plan because of all
these uncertainties probably makes sense because we'll just look foolish when people pull out
that six-year plan five years from now and you know a lot of our assumptions are going to be
way off, so why suffer through that indignity?
The other thing is, as far as layoffs and the size of our workforce is concerned, if we're operating
for the foreseeable future at the 60% level, why do we need 100% of our employees? That
doesn't make sense. So you know I think under the current circumstances, layoffs are almost a
foregone conclusion.
And then the other thing I would add before I stop is that be careful what you do with salaries
because there is an article in the paper today that said that the amount of jobs available out there
today is as good as it was in December. So there's still a huge demand for people with skills, and
we're talking about people with skills right now. And the old saying goes that the eagles will soar
and the turkeys will roost, so if you start messing with the salaries of our top people, then you're
asking them to look elsewhere, and we're going to lose our best talent in doing it that way. So I
don't like the idea of cutting salaries.
Thank you. That's the extent of my comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And with the exception of his comments on salary
reductions, I agree with everything that Director Broom has said. I've already given my input on
the questions that Ms. McKillop wanted answered.
But I also want to agree with some things that Director Folska said, and I appreciate her saying
that each and every one of us on the Board are concerned and troubled by the situation and the
decisions that we have to make. And each and every one of us takes them seriously. Sometimes,
for some reason, the public gets the sense that only one or two directors really care about what's
going on. But that's not the case, and I'm glad Director Folska made that clear.
I also want to agree with what Director Tisdale said about the midterm financial plan. Why do it?
I mean, I was, I guess, under the impression that we had to have one of these, but instead of a
two-year plan, let's just put this on hold for now. So I agree with that, but I've already given my
input on that, so I'll leave it at that, and thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am inclined to agree with maybe suspending the
mid-term financial plan until we're required to produce it for the TIP, and I would rather focus on
a quality budget for 2021 at this point. And I neglected to thank the task force members and Ms.
McKillop on the work that's been done to date and all the thought that's put into it. And I think
there's still more work to be done.
But I did want to comment that I very much appreciate that the staff did move off of strictly a
furlough recommendation and move towards some sort of a compromise. I did not like the idea
of furloughs because of its impact to our productivity and our services. I am inclined to agree
with Director Tisdale that perhaps Director Menten's effort is a little bit on the heavy side and
staff's revised recommendation at this point might be a little light.
So I guess I would encourage something in the middle. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, First Vice Chair. Second Vice Chair
Cook
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So it seems like we're going through AND pretty much
providing our feedback, and I'll do that. First of all, I want to add my thanks. You know, such a
difficult time for everybody. The task force undertook the most thankless job of all, I would like
to say. And I think have really tried hard to hew to principles. For example, going with the tiers
for the furloughs, I think reflected an early interest and concern of the Board and it certainly
carried through in the principles in talking about our priorities in that sense for how we impact
people.
In another vein, I did want to respond to some of the information that Director Broom provided.
We did hew to the more conservative estimate from the May Leeds projection. And that was for
a purpose. We didn't know what would happen. Such a volatile time, we were seeing big changes
just between the May and the June forecasts. We thought let's hold on here.
And the other part of that was if we were conservative, we could perhaps spring more into the
2021 timeframe to buffer the changes that we'd have to make there. Well now, we do have more
information, and I urge that we really take advantage of that.
In fact, went back to that June study session where Leeds came in and Brian Lewandowski said
at that point that we-- and I'm quoting him here-- "We think that the next two months of receipts
are going to be the most important and the most revealing, both for RTD but more importantly,
for us in our modeling because it's going to tell us how consumers and spending are coming back
within the Denver metro region."
So that's a big argument for basing the mid-term financial plan and the budget on the same
numbers and on the best numbers, which we'll get in a week or two. Last year, the year before,
and 2017, we approved the mid-term financial plan in October. So if we're moving it into that
time frame or even November, it's not that much later. Hopefully, that will ease the work on the
staff.

I agree with Director Walker that it's better to have at least something of an extended view into
the time horizon. You want a little bit more than just the current year. A two-year is both short
enough that it can take into account the volatility or uncertainty about the out years, but at the
same time give us a little bit more of a planning horizon. So I like the two-year. I don't like the
idea so much of just foregoing the mid-term financial plan at all. And in fact, that Fitch report
noted that we were going to a two-year plan, so I like keeping with what they have already noted
and seemed fine with.
On the furloughs, I kind of agreed with Vince, in his first remarks, that we want-- I think it
should be a little bit more, honestly, but I don't want to just pick a number out of the air. Where
Natalie came from, I agree with Troy, that we-- Director Whitmore-- that if we had some data
there, if we had experience from what other transit agencies are doing as well as DoTs and stuff,
but we don't.
The one thought is if we took the 7 and 1/2% and added in the raise that was given earlier this
year, maybe it will be a little bit less arbitrary to talk about something in the 10% range and more
in keeping with what the staff the in sort of a considerate way have offered, but pushing that up a
little bit. So I would say that might be a thought. And then I agreed with the idea of pushing, if
possible, for a bit more parity between the layoff percentages, represented versus nonrepresented.
And then my last request would be-- I know we say we've sat down with the union, but I urge
that we do that now if we're building a little bit of time here, especially before we move forward
on any layoffs. And let's push for a genuine session of trying out different ideas.
We keep getting appeals from the operators, and we don't hear anything necessarily back in
terms of well, let's set a meeting. Let's set a meeting and see what can come out of that, and not
just have another of a series of sit downs that don't seem to result in anything. Let's take
advantage of what seems to be true interest among the membership and among the Board, and
I'm sure the staff, to see if there aren't some creative ways that we can make the impact on
everybody a little bit lessened.
OK that's all. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska, do you have anything additionally?
CLAUDIA FOLKSA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, I really appreciated what Director
Broom had to say regarding the sales and use tax revenue. I thought that was a keen observation
in that those are based on the unemployment of $600 a week and the cash payment of $1,200.
Now we're not going to have that, and probably not for the foreseeable future.
So I would say why don't we wait and see what the sales and use tax looks like through the end
of this year and even into the first quarter of next year? And thinking that it's probably not going
to be that great.

With regard to the furloughs, I do agree with Director Tisdale. Maybe staff is a little light on
their recommendations, and maybe Director Menten's proposal is a little bit heavy. A lot of these
things, even what Bruce Abel said, was anecdotal. He looked at newspapers to come up with the
7 and 1/2% and come into the middle between 5 and 10 and land there.
But I think that Director Menten has put a lot of thought into this and not just now. This is
something that Director Menten has been talking about, I think, for the duration of her time on
the Board, to be honest with you. So this is not something she just pulled out of a hat this week
or last week. And I'm not saying that staff pulled anything out of the hat, so please don't
misinterpret that.
But I do agree with the point that furloughs doesn't help anybody, really, in terms of our salaried
staff. So I would be against any furloughs. I did appreciate very much what Director Williams
said about everybody just stepping up and saying we don't want anyone to lose their job, and
we'll take a cut now. Maybe that's too extreme, too.
So I'm hoping that we could find something a little bit in the middle, and my thought-- I don't
remember what all the numbers are, but let's say that we just move the top tier, for example, from
18 down to 15 and forget the furloughs.
And I think that speaks loud and clear to our consumers, our stakeholders, and to Wall Street that
our staff is serious about getting things right. And I think Heather McKillop was very clear our
bond rating matters, and what Wall Street thinks about us matters. And it's a serious thing.
So I think though it's time to take big, bold action. I think we should take it tonight. So I would
be willing to go down to 15 and-- I forget what the other numbers are, but I could be flexible on
that. I also very much appreciate Director Tisdale's comments about really, really providing the
necessary support to help folks who transition from RTD to another position.
But I don't want to operate from a position of fear, either. I think the people who are at RTD who
want to remain at RTD will, and those who don't, don't. And I care very much for our staff, and I
think they have great talent and great knowledge. But people move on all the time, and we've
seen that. And when Phil Washington left, he took our A-team-- not that we're not having the Ateam now, but the top people who were doing everything all went with him.
And so I think we survived, right? And we will continue to survive. But getting our financial
house in order is essential. And I think it requires a bold action on the part of the Board and
courage from our staff. And we'll get through it.
And it's not a permanent thing. It's a sunset. So it isn't like this is how it's going to be forever, but
it also shows that we're all working in solidarity and we're all working all together.
And for me right now, that's all I have, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Treasurer Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, next week we get the next round
of Leeds forecasts, and they certainly will be looking at the fact that the $600 has gone away and
the $1,200 was a one-shot thing, and they will be considering all that in their forecasts. And so to
me, the important thing is let's get the best numbers we can get, and I think getting their updated
numbers and looking at those is a real important piece.
I like the idea of moving forward. I know that Ms. McKillop and her team are working hard, and
she said today that her focus is on the budget. But I do think that that budget will be the first year
of a two-year plan, and I think that the two-year plan is important because it does give us a
second view there. So I still would urge a two-year plan for the MTFP and a budget, both to be
potentially presented at the same time and passed whenever that's ready, November or when
that's ready, but using the same numbers so we don't have the mid-term financial plan based on
some numbers that don't match the 2021 budget.
I agree, I'd like to see the salary cut and furlough numbers for the top end a little bit higher. At
the same time, I hear where Director Broom is coming from and would be OK with a 10% cut,
including six furlough days or something along those lines.
And I guess I just appreciate what so many other people have said that this is just a really hard
time, and I think we're not trying to reflect bad feelings towards anyone-- staff, this discussion of
should we be working in parity. It's just a matter of how do we try to be fair with a very lean
budget. And that's all I have. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis. I think you're muted. You're still
muted, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sorry, I was having a hard time unmuting. I don't know what was
happening. Thank you so much. Sorry about that.
I did have two more questions that I didn't get a chance to-- that I didn't get a chance to ask on
my list. I'm sorry about that. The first one is for Heather, probably. Is RTD self-insured for
unemployment?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is correct. Are you there?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Am I still on mute?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I can hear you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Did you hear me? This is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Shontel, did you hear Heather?
SPEAKER: Director Lewis, Heather said yes. The answer to your question is yes, we are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, can you hear me?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Are you still on the line?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, can you hear me?
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, I'll go to you-- I'll
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, can you hear me? I see that you're-SHONTEL LEWIS: Heather will be on the line to answer that question at some point. If not, at
some point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can you hear me? Can you hear me, Shontel?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Otherwise I'll go to my thoughts around the-- my thoughts around what
some things that we might be able to do for-- during this conversation. So one of the things that
was glaring to me is that even with the recommendations that have come from staff, that it feels
to me and, it presents as-- and I appreciate the work this staff has done-- that it's really
piecemealed together. And in a short period of time, we're still going to have to deal with our
budget deficit. I think to the tune of $210 million. I believe that was the number at the end of the
presentation.
So in that understanding, I actually appreciated what Director Lubow said in bringing someone
in who might be able to help us put together a more comprehensive plan that addresses not only
the short term but also the long term because this doesn't appear to do that, and I reckon that we
might be having these conversations in the future if we're just kind of plugging our boat, which is
what this feels like to me.
The recommendations that I have that I think we should potentially explore-- the first one is as
we were talking about our operators, particularly folks who have worked six-day mandates, right,
for a really long time, and the bulk of the layoffs coming from that demographic of folks. If we
could, for the sake of both public safety and trust, instead of laying folks off maybe provide
additional cleaning and sanitation to really show the public that RTD and public transit is safe to
ride, so investing dollars in that way.
I didn't see on this list a suggestion or a recommendation for early retirements, and I'd be
interested in that. I think I've seen the data about the folks who are employed within our agency,
and I wonder if some of them would like to retire early. I don't know, but I think it's worth
exploring.
For the defined contribution plan, I would actually like to see a permanent 5% reduction. So we
had this conversation last year. Many directors might recall it and staff said they could not put
permanent decreases on that because it would take a process. And I think this is a really good
time for us, in the spirit of a comprehensive plan that addresses multiple concerns and issues
within our agency, to reduce that permanently and have staff contribute those dollars to match
those dollars as Director Williams pointed out. I think it's important to do that, and I think we
should be going in that direction.

I also would like to know more about the permanent changes to health care and the changes to
the health care that would be offered to employees. I know Heather mentioned that this was a
cost, and so I would like to see some permanent changes in that realm. Again, really putting
forward a more comprehensive plan as we're looking at a future of uncertainty.
As to Board Director Menten's reduction in salary, I think that our operators have taken a really
significant burden in the six-day mandates, and this is a great opportunity for all of us in the
agency to carry some of the burden, and I think a reduction in salary could achieve that.
Bruce mentioned that on the rail side, that there were 70-- that we were seeing a reduction in
ridership between 70% to 80% and 45% to 55% on the bus side, and I know rail is significantly
more expensive in terms of cost to run. And so what are some cost-saving measures that we
might be able to find on the rail side, specifically, because it is more expensive to run? That's
one.
Also, have we looked at any of our contracts and looked at opportunities where we might amend
them? So we've talked about a 40%-- that we were running less service, that we were seeing
declines in ridership, but we still have the same contracts in place. And so particularly, I think
about our allied security contract.
If we are seeing 70% to 80% decreases in ridership on the rail side, and then 45 to 55 on the bus
side, there might be an opportunity for us to explore our contracts to determine if what we are
paying for right now makes the most sense and matches the services that we are providing. I
would guess our staff would probably be interested in that as well, considering we keep our
contracts in place and lay off and furlough employees and also ask for staff reductions. So I think
there's an opportunity to explore in that way.
And then finally, my final recommendation is that we upgrade our Zoom account so that we can
have more people who can participate on this call via Zoom and/or livestream this directly
because I've gotten a number of constituents who have said they still can't participate in our call
because we reached the max. So I know that wasn't a part of this, but I thought we should at least
explore that conversation.
And then finally, for the mid-term financial plan in the budget, I would say that if we really want
to put something comprehensive together, that we take our time in doing so and not rush to any
conclusions, any decisions. And one opportunity. I think we miss all the time at RTD is we don't
ask the folks who are going to be impacted by these decisions.
Like we might have conversations with operators, to Director Cook's point, where they might be
interested in a four-day workweek, but we are often having these discussions in the board room
and not necessarily going into our divisions and saying hey, what can we do? What are some
ideas as to proposals that you have?
And so I would encourage us to take that as a next step as well and to reach out to our operators,
to reach out to our service [INAUDIBLE], to reach out to our represented and non-represented
staff and to ask what are some proposals or ideas that they might have because we might be

surprised that they can help us solve this in a way that really centers their experiences and their
humanity. That is all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, can you hear me?
JUDY LUBOW: I don't think she can.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Are you talking to me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I was talking to Director Lewis. I don't think she can hear
me. Director Lubow, you're up.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Boy, it feels like a very long evening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is.
JUDY LUBOW: So there's been a lot said. Really terrific conversations. I'm hoping that when
we're done, not only will we have this straw poll but that Heather and/or Bruce will give us a
summary of what they've heard because I think that might help my thinking.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I agree.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. For myself, I would just like to stress that I'm looking to save as
many jobs as possible. Of course, the first requirement is the sustainability of the agency, but
right close to that is saving the jobs. And so, therefore, I support Director Menten's proposal or
things like it, which are basically would be a heavier lift salary-wise than what the staff came
forward with, the task force.
And frankly, I would be very disappointed if, when we come back next week, we see something
close to what the task force originally recommended because I don't think it's enough. I'd like to
take that extra money and help us save some jobs.
And yes, creative meeting with the union that Shelley Cook suggested, I think that would be
terrific. We have gotten letters from union and just operators themselves with creative ideas, and
I really would urge our management to pursue those and see if it is possible to save some jobs by
these creative ideas.
That's it for me. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten, do you have any
follow-up questions or comments?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm going to go to a couple oddball ones, and just reference, go back to
the discussion about the collective bargaining agreement or CBA, and as to what happens with

the layoffs, as I suspect most people do not have a copy of the collective bargaining agreement in
front of them. But I happen to have that, and it does state-- and I'm just bringing this up because
it was mentioned a couple of times in our discussion-- under section 12, which is page 19 of this
141-page document, that inverse occupational group seniority shall govern layoffs. And
occupational groups seniority shall govern re-employment of employees. And then there is a
process laid out in there.
So the board doesn't really get to have as much to say in some of these things. I think we may
have the collective bargaining agreement available at the site, maybe only on our backend, but I
thought I would just mention that as we get further into this discussion.
Then the next is that there was a question directed to me about what examples are there out
there? It should be noted that because of CARES Act money, a lot of that is what-- a lot of that
money is running out, being run through, the agencies that got it. And they are right now turning
the same position that RTD is.
But there are many sectors of our economy that didn't get that CARES Act money. And for
those, those are the people that we depend on, whether it's going to downtown, the major
employment hub, or otherwise, for income. So we know that the city and county of Denver just
came out with an announcement of what they're going to need to be looking at. They don't have a
specifics laid out.
And when I look at the examples, I've got a long, substantial list of private and public sector. To
nail it down to transit, they're limited examples. So I'll throw out just a couple examples here.
This is private sector, somewhat tied to the transportation industry, and that is Coach USA.
Which, and I quote-- and I've got this in the document that I believe you'll all see when it's
submitted-- "One of the country's largest bus companies has laid off almost 3,000 of its 5,000
employees across 35 states, and those remaining have taken a 40% pay cut."
There's a list of some other major companies. Again, public sector kind of got bailout money. I
can give examples. A great site to go to look at the private sector, where it was noted in my
comments here between 28% to 33% cut was found both in the IT sector, the financial sector, the
real estate sector.
Those are people that now have that much less money to spend and generate sales tax. And these
things are starting to come to a head. Heathrow-- I notice they're close to us, but that's transit-20% pay cuts for office staff. So the list is very lengthy, a variety of different sectors. Agreed,
but as you look through the news articles, right now is when there are a lot of other folks having
this discussion that we're having as things start to continue to crumble, I guess.
And then going to the percentages, just so we have the records all right because there were a few
Board directors that went over this topic. But because I have the very freshest payroll list I can
see that with our-- our employee counts are this. Right now, with our non-represented, as of the
most current list, within days, we've got 2,087 full-time and part-time employees. If we are
saying that there are 429 occupied positions right now that would be eliminated, that is 20.55%.

And if we're looking at the non-represented as of-- again, freshest payroll list that is out there-we have 912 full-time and part-time. And if we've got 108 positions to be eliminated, that figure
is actually 11.84%. And I thought it was helpful because there were more than a few Board
directors that talked about the difference between the union and non-union.
I will note, because I just want to as part of the record, that the union, certain individuals, have
seemed to state that this is a surprise coming, that there were the layoffs. But for those who have
followed these meetings for a long time, the option of furlough for union was presented, and the
response was sorry, that's not a word that you will find in our collective bargaining agreement.
And so for this difference that that's part of the problem, and I just think it because there's so
many listening on the phone, it should be mentioned that there were attempts to work through
this.
And then I'll just go back. I know we're doing a straw poll, so obviously, I am in favor for nonrepresented to eliminate the furlough day options and to go with the strict compensation
reduction so that we're providing as many service hours out of those departments as possible.
And as for the mid-term, I was really, really wanting to support the planning effort. I still want
to, but when the house is burning down, it is difficult to be looking at the long term, but I still
don't push it aside completely. So I guess if we want to go with a two-year, that's fine. I just-looking at the ash that's flying through the air right now, and like the fire hose is not even long
enough to get to the house. I don't know what better way to describe it.
So there, I think I gave all my feedback. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Milhalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, just a couple of things. I certainly don't revel in the idea of the layoffs or
salary reduction, but I think the salary reductions need to be more than just symbolic. They need
to represent the real situation that we're in. I know you're getting the emails-- and I'd say you to
the other directors-- you're all getting the emails and phone calls from your constituents and even
the employers asking about when is service going to be restored.
And so I'm definitely concerned about what the January service change looks like for my area.
And I can't tell people that well, we've got-- we saved all these extra jobs for service that isn't
being delivered. So there's, I guess, a contradiction there. We can't save more jobs than we have
demand for.
And we're also approaching the second wave of the virus and, of course, that's just more
uncertainty, what the fall and winter looks like. And I would say we probably may be at the peak
of ridership right now for a while, for the next few months. I don't know whether changes that
any way.

The midterm financial plan versus two versus six or none at all. I'm a none-at-all or two-year. It
doesn't-- I'm not concerned really that much either way. I know that Heather and her finance
group are working tirelessly to come up with all these different-- or all the information that they
can.
And I guess that's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, regarding the mid-term
financial plan, as I said, I believe that perhaps we should explore simply not doing a mid-term
financial plan this year and create it next year when we have better information. As I understand
it, I believe that Ms. McKillop has told us that we can do that, and that it would not, in fact,
impair her ability to create the 2021 budget or create any difficulty with outside agencies to
whom we must provide information.
Secondly, I do favor the blended furloughs and salary reductions that staff has come up with. But
I do suggest that we at least consider increasing at least some portion of that salary reduction as
proposed, and that we count on the good will of our incredible, amazingly dedicated and devoted
salaried staff, instilling in them the confidence that when circumstances allow, we will make it
right. We will make it right with them.
Next, I would provide some greater equity in the RIFs, the reductions in force, between salaried
and represented, recognizing, of course-- to respond to the comment that several directors have
made-- that there actually is a difference between the two. It is difficult to justify keeping 100%
of our operators when we are providing 60% of the service, whereas we still have much of the
same administrative work, no matter what. So there is some basis for some disparity, but we
need to explore that idea a little further.
And then lastly, the idea of going to the divisions and asking the operators directly what they
want, going around the Union, might possibly be construed by some as an unfair labor practice.
We have a collective bargaining agreement that makes the union the voice of the operators, and
that is the voice to which we must listen. And a meeting with a union is absolutely fine, but
meeting with the operators directly I submit is a potential problem under our collective
bargaining agreement.
I offer a disclaimer-- my comments do not constitute legal advice. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Director Tisdale. Director Walker. OK. I'm waiting.
You're on mute. OK, you're off.
JEFF WALKER: Can you hear me now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I have one quick question for, I guess, Mr. Abel or Mr. Worthen. How
long does it take to onboard a former employee? Is the same process as hiring somebody who
comes in who hasn't worked for RTD?
BRUCE ABEL: I'm sorry, Director Walker. You were asking how long does it take to onboard
an operator?
JEFF WALKER: A former operator.
BRUCE ABEL: A former operator? Well, if we recall somebody through a layoff process, is that
what you're asking?
JEFF WALKER: Yes, thank you.
BRUCE ABEL: So it takes time to both send out notifications-- and there's contractual language
that I would have to look up-- but I believe once we actually send an employee notice, they have
up to 30 days to return to work. I have to check the contract language to be certain on that. And
then, of course, you have a retraining period, too.
We're still working on what our retraining program would physically look like for a recall, but it
would be at least a few weeks worth of training once they've actually returned to work. And of
course, you also have to add in other things like after they report, they have to go through a drug
and alcohol test and those things like that. So it could be two months, dependent upon how
quickly an operator physically responds to return to work notification.
JEFF WALKER: So it's comparable as hiring a new operator who has not worked for RTD.
BRUCE ABEL: It's a little bit shorter than hiring a new person because we don't have to go
through the full training period, but it's still-- dependent upon how quickly the operator returns, it
could be still a good amount of time.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, thank you. So one of the things about-- one of my concerns is with
letting so many operators go is that if-- the job numbers have been all over the place. We lost
some [INAUDIBLE] months or years. If, as a nation.
But if there were to be a surge, I'd be afraid that we would be in a situation where we could not
provide the service, reasonable service, that is requested and demanded by our customers or
potential customers. I remember when I got on the Board nine years ago, RTD was touted as a
great economic engine, and the number of jobs that it provided.
Granted, a lot of jobs were in construction on the Eagle project, but there were still jobs that this
agency was providing. All those folks were get paid and putting money right back into the local
economy. I hate to lose that momentum and to be behind the eight ball if that employment surge
does come back and potential for the virus and said no, that some of the people that I work with
[AUDIO OUT] bringing people back, if they haven't already, starting in January.

So I'm loath to let anybody go, I hate that. But I know it's a possibility, and that's what we signed
up for [AUDIO OUT]. One of the things that's bothering me personally is the notion that this
Board is insulated in sharing that pain. I've expressed that concern before I did my part
[INAUDIBLE].
I'm sure that staff, and maybe if the Board members are inclined, that there's a mechanism that
we can show [AUDIO OUT] that's symbolic [AUDIO OUT]. We can do something to show that
we actually are [AUDIO OUT]. We're all willing to take some kind of a financial
[INAUDIBLE].
Regarding the mid-term financial plan, everything this agency does-- and every agency [AUDIO
OUT]-- does is based on assumptions. So everything in this industry is based on assumptions. So
we assumed that we knew what the revenue stream would be in 2020 at the end of 2019, and
look where that lead us, right? I don't see anything wrong with looking outward, identifying what
our priorities are, what our project and programmatic priorities are so we know where one
project ends what that [AUDIO OUT] picked up to carry on that effort to providing service.
So I'm fine with, as I said before, if staff has the resources, to extend it out to six years because I
think that's prudent. But two years, if that's all that staff can muster, that's fine. Even the first
paragraph of FasTracks, the first paragraph of the Executive Summary, mentions the
assumptions on which that plan is built. So I think it's fine to assume. If the assumptions don't
pan out, we note it, and we move on to what we think we can reasonably predict [AUDIO OUT].
So regarding the furloughs, I don't think that furloughs equal the day off. I know several staff
throughout my career that have been furloughed, and they still worked and still answered their
phone call, but they're on boat somewhere or in a cabin somewhere, so I don't think the
productivity will be lost to the extent that some [AUDIO OUT].
But anyway, so I think that's all. I don't have any more questions. Thank you all. Thanks to staff
for putting this together and reaching out [AUDIO OUT]. That's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore, anything
additionally?
TROY WHITMORE: Just a couple of things. Thank you to Director Menten for that information
addition. I, like a couple of the other colleagues, would like to see more discussion of maybe the
hybrid plan, and I think as Director Tisdale said, between maybe a little more substantial salary
trimming with or without the furlough days, probably with the furlough days, but I think we can
do a little more on the top end to ease the pain and hopefully find some trimming there that can
be used elsewhere in a more appropriate manner.
I'm fine with the two-year financial plan or the shorter one, but probably the two-year, just so we
have a little bit of a look ahead. Pushing out the budget and the two-year financial plan as long as
we can so we have good data, up-to-date data as Director Mihalik said a while back.

We kind of had some helicopter funds that were dropped. What are those going to do as we look
at this month and August compared to June and July where numbers apparently were up? I think
it's important that we know that, much to Director Cook and Guissinger's points.
I guess, I think that's all. I just want to reiterate like others, how painful this is and gut
wrenching. And in my 21 months on the board, I've had wonderful interactions from RTD staff
members at all levels, whether it was at Union Station or on a bus or at the lake or elsewhere.
And it flat stinks to have to deal with things like this, but we will do it, and let's stick together
and see where we can dig our way out and let's hope for a better-- I must say '22 and '23 because
I figure '21 is going to be tough, but we'll get through it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a couple more points. I want to point
out that RTD is not going out of business. And there are many, many agencies and companies
and restaurants that are going out of business all around us.
It's not just RTD. The city and county of Denver today announced a $190 million shortfall after
they cut, did all their cuts, they're still short that. DPS is having-- Denver Public Schools-- is
having a terrible time. They are losing money right and left. So RTD is fortunate in some ways to
still be in service at all.
So this is why [AUDIO OUT] we live in. This is why this Board got elected, is to do this
unpleasant and uncomfortable work that none of us want to be doing. But I want us to continue
to look at it. I've said before, and I'll say again when we go around, that I'm OK with moving the
mid-term financial plan back as far as we can move it to match up with the budget so that we can
look at some more real data.
We also heard tonight some talk about a four-day work week, which is the equivalent of a 20%
cut in pay, but keeps more people working and allows us to provide more service. And I think we
need to look harder at that across the line for everybody. And that's all. Madam Chair, I could-- I
have a whole lot more, but I'll be quiet. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I want to thank all of you. It is 9:06, and you know,
this has been such an important discussion. And I have just been taking copious [AUDIO OUT].
What I want to say to all of you is how honored and grateful I am to sit on this Board with all of
you because you are just so committed to our community and to our region and to our
employees.
So I would like to just say a couple of things. The first thing I'd like to say to everyone is that we
are clearly in uncharted territory in a fluid environment. And it's literally going to take every
single one of us who's within the sound of my voice to move us forward.
I also have to say that we are essential to the economy of this region. We are the connector to
community, and we are a really innovative agency. But with that in mind, [AUDIO OUT] want

to do right [AUDIO OUT] is really thank our staff because if you go back, all of this discussion
really has been going on since July. We're only in September. So it's been a very short period of
time.
We told Mr. Ballard that we had an issue with this budget. We asked him to listen very
innovatively. He put together a committee to do a deep dive into literally every division and to
meet with senior leadership and every one of our managers under Bruce Abel and his team. Our
Board officers literally worked thousands of hours-- Ms. McManus, Mr. McKay, Nikki,
Taeshray, and they have really worked hard along with the entire RTD team.
I can tell you we have worked literally thousands of hours, that there is no-- I'm not exaggerating
that number, either. They've been working seven days a week, at least 12-hour days because
every time they met with us, we changed the equation a little bit.They would you have to go back
to the drawing board. I cannot thank the Finance team enough. I cannot think senior leadership
enough. I thank them for working with the union on a regular basis to try and develop a strategy
together.
And I think that the other thing I'd like to share with you is that since July, we have had four
workshops, two finance committees, two board meetings, and all of that has been done since
July. But I also want to talk to you about the things that [AUDIO OUT] is perhaps what we could
do, is in the name of innovation, [AUDIO OUT] like security [AUDIO OUT] who could then
work with us [AUDIO OUT] our service comes back, we would already bus drivers trained to be
able to go back to full service.
So I think there's a lot of innovation kinds of things going on behind the scenes. You guys have
added a lot of stuff. The four-day work week is something I didn't think about.
But I do think for tonight, we need to give another nod to our staff on how to move forward. And
so what I'd like to do is ask the assistance of Ms. McKillop So here's what I've got, and please
bear with me because it's been a long night, and there's been a lot of discussion.
There are three things, and I've written them all down, but Ms. McKillop, did you capture what
everybody's positions were for you? There were three things-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, I believe we did. Bruce and I have been trying to
capture what people said as they've gone along. From what-- and I'll have Bruce correct me if I'm
wrong-- but from what I'm hearing, we have majority support for a mid-term financial plan that's
two years that can coincide with the adoption of the 2021 budget with the same information in it
so that they match each other.
We have heard a majority of the folks say that they would like us to go back and look at
something higher than what staff proposed, especially for the highest tier employees, but perhaps
something less than what Director Menten have proposed at the 18% level. So we had a majority
of people on that.

I did want to mention-- so then for the question of how do we balance '24, '25, and '6 really isn't
a question anymore if we're just going to do a two-year plan. I did want to-- I don't know if
Director Lewis can hear-- but I did want to mention that we are self-insured, that we will be
bringing the benefit package to the Board next month for review, so there'll be an opportunity
there.
We have looked at early retirement. The problem with that is it increases the liability pension
and would re-increase then, the contributions that we need to make from an RTD perspective if
people retire early. The secondary issue is you lose people in those positions that you would
otherwise want to keep. So that becomes an issue.
I did want to point out again that we have a compensation and classification study, that the RFP
is due back any day now, and we will be hiring experts that will be reviewing our classifications,
as well as our compensation, that we'll be reporting out to the Board on that.
I think-- did I miss something, Bruce?
BRUCE ABEL: No that's the same summary that I would provide. The only additional comment
I would make is not only are we self-insured, but we have taken our self-insurance payouts for
unemployment into consideration as we have gone through all of the budget impact calculations.
So, yes, we are self-insured and that is part of the line and Heather's charts that makes reference
to costs associated. I don't recall the exact title in the charts, but if there are reductions or costs
associated, and the kinds of costs that are listed there, we will be paying unemployment
insurance.
We have built money in for severance. We have built money in for placement services, et cetera,
et cetera, et cetera. So we have addressed those issues in our calculations.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And those are listed on package page 18.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I think that in terms of the task force recommendations, the only
issue that we have really heard any commentary on is the issue of the salary adjustments relative
to furlough and dollar figures. And I think that the take away, as Heather said, is higher than the
staff but lower than Director Menten, and so we will continue to work on that. And we will come
back at the next session with a more concrete approach.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. The only other thing I would say for Board
members is that we are recording this session. We will go back to make sure that we've got a
good tally of who wants what so it's all incorporated in this process, so that you don't need to
worry that we're going to miss [AUDIO OUT] the gap here because I think we've got it all pretty
put together. OK I-BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --think we've exhausted this discussion. I thank you so much.

KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair, I hear Bob Broom is trying to speak, I believe.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam. Mr. Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I was just going to say you need to define what four-day work week
means. Usually, that means four ten-hour days, and there's no salary savings that accompany
that. And I guess some people may be inferring that people are going to work four eight-hour
days, and they're going to take and only get four days' pay rather than five days' pay. So that
needs to be made clear if there's going to be any discussion of that in any of the follow-up work.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. OK-PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, I have my hand raised.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh I'm sorry. Go ahead, First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well I apologize, but I was unable to hear you in your comments as you were
breaking up. And I believe that you made a comment about perhaps bringing back laid-off
workers to be trained as not security, but conductors on the on the trains
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Conductors, correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Process. And I just think that is a really turning lemons into lemonade if we
can, and really focus on that. And this has really been a tough discussion, and whether you're
talking about layoffs or reducing pay, it's really tough, but I think to the extent that we can look
at some of those creative ways to pivot some of those workers, I just think that would be good.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Any other closing comments?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, Madam Chair. This is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All Right. This is an information item that some Board directors I've
talked to would like to see brought forward to the Board, especially as they move into a
discussion about the defined contribution plan. And in the past-- as a matter of fact, last year-- I
made a motion to drop it to 7% contribution, and I was only able to get a few votes in agreement
with dropping into 7%.
But I would like to see if we can pull in our outside advisor to having discussion about revising
the plan to where the non-represented employees would be contributing to the pension. And I
have heard different responses to what it would take to do that, if we would have to draw up a
new plan.

And then there is this long-going discussion about equality between the union and the nonrepresented. And it doesn't do a circle here where we have to take a step forward one direction or
another. And if we're going to be talking about defined contribution plan, I'd like to get that
person-- I think his first name is Steve-- and he been in that position as an advisor for a long time
because I have the minutes going back to when it was Marla Lein as our legal counsel.
And if we take this step with the non-represented, then that opens up the door to when we're
discussing the CBA, which is starting to gear up, already geared up in discussion. I think we
need that outside expertise. I could be wrong, but this seems an ideal time.
And I know we've got a couple of Board directors willing to sign on as an action item if
necessary. Or we could just say right now that that sounds like, perhaps, something we can look
into. Perhaps it's better if we just submit the signers and ensure that that happens, but I wanted to
bring that up before we get too far into that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I just want to respond to that. So in usually September, but because
of the amount of stuff on the agenda, we moved it to October, we which traditionally bring in the
salaried actuarial to discuss the contribution that the Board makes and its impact on the pension
plan for salaried. And then in the spring, we bring in both the actuarial for the represented, as
well as the salary pension plan.
Steve Weinstein is the attorney for both the salaried pension plan and the salaried defined
contribution plan. I have already discussed with him, I think when this came back up in August,
Melanie and I had talked to him. I don't know if he's available at the October 20 meeting, but I
can ask him, but our actuarial is planning on already being there for the salaried pension plan.
We can ask the actuarial and the attorney for the represented pension plan to be there, but there is
no obligation on their part to come in front of the Board. They have done that as a courtesy in the
past.
BRUCE ABEL: And Madam Chair, this is Bruce. I would like to ask-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: I would like to ask Melanie to chime in as well because I know the question
regarding the defined contribution plan has been proposed to me, and I have discussed with her.
And she could perhaps elaborate a little bit more on process and constraints and, et cetera.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder. So, yes, as Bruce was
alluding to, the current plan does have that 7% to 9% range in it, and so to the extent that the
Board wanted to make any adjustments to that range, it would require a vote of the Trustees first.
That's the first step. And then the Board does have the ability to override that vote, but that
would need to happen first. So it would require an amendment to the plan.
BRUCE ABEL: Any employee for the match?
MELANIE SNYDER: And the same. And that's the same would required for the employee
match.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Thank you. All right, Director Menten, does that answer
your question?
NATALIE MENTEN: What I hear between Heather and Melanie is that we'll reach out to Steve
and we'll ask if he could be available because I am interested if-- just getting down to the nittygritty-- if we can amend the plan or if we have to create a new plan, if we were talking about an
employee contribution. And then secondly would be, let's say, reducing the taxpayer contribution
of the 7% or 9%, what would that take? So there is difference-- amending a plan or do we have
to create a new plan?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So what I'm hearing is that we first need to talk to Steve, and
then it needs to go to a vote at the Trustee. So I think we should talk about it maybe offline to see
how we want to move forward with it, Director Menton.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Because it looks like there are several steps we need to take a
look at.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cool. All right. Any other comments? Hearing none, we do have
other matters, and I'd like to ask Pauletta Tonilas to give us an update on the inline. Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Hopefully you can all hear me. I tried to
unmute myself. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAULETTA TONILAS: OK, thank you. So it's late. Don't need to go through a lot of detail. We
did send the Board information earlier, just revisiting what we've shared with you before about
an exciting milestone in that in this-- in the wake of all of this tough stuff that we're dealing with,
what we want to make sure everyone is doing and all of our regional partners is remembering the

great milestone that we are about to achieve Monday with delivering another major rail
investment across the area.
And so we, obviously, have several things planned this Thursday-- some special rides for the
media, for the RTD Board of Directors, and the senior leadership team with a plus one guest, and
then our VIP stakeholders from the North Metro corridor. Those three rides happening starting at
124th and East Lake, making a round trip to Union Station and back as a pre-ride and giving us a
chance to experience that special moment together.
And then next Monday, the 21st, will of course be our grand opening ceremony. Now COVID
has changed the way that we can do a special event like this, so it will be different than other rail
line openings but nonetheless, very important and keeping the spirit of the achievement that
we've been working towards for many years.
And so we are hopeful that the region at large will join us through a livestream where we can
have widespread participation virtually while we do a small-scale and modest event in person
with the RTD Board of Directors, our stakeholder elected officials from the corridor of North
Metro, and some other key stakeholders on site at 10 o'clock on Monday the 21st. And we will,
after the ribbon cutting at noon, we will start the free rides and for a week allow the public to
experience our new rail line.
So just want to make sure that everybody takes a look at the information that was sent about the
details. And any questions that you have, we're happy to answer those in the next couple of days.
And Madam Chair, I'm happy to take any questions if anyone has them. Or Mr. Ballard may
want to weigh in as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: No, I just want to thank Pauletta. She gave a good summary. I hope to see
everybody on Thursday or almost everybody on Thursday, and then everybody again on
Monday. So this will be the bright spot and all this other stuff we've been talking about. So thank
you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Any questions from Board members for Ms.
Tonilas? OK, hearing none, I'm hearing no other business to address this evening for-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Actually, excuse me. I'm sorry,
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry, Madam Chair. Just Pauletta, thank you and your team. This has
been a long haul. Henry, all of your work, Paul your work, it's really-- I'm excited to see the
North Line finally open. And I remember when we signed up to this contract-- I think it was in
2015-- and here we are. So congratulations to everybody and to the Board. That's all. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten, do you have your hand raised?

NATALIE MENTEN: Just in a hallelujah. We're almost done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, thank goodness. So-NATALIE MENTEN: That was [INTERPOSING VOICES].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, hearing no other business to address at this
study session this evening, we are adjourned as of 9:26 PM. Thank you all for joining us for this
meeting. Good night and be safe.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair.

