1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, May 10, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 6:11 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:14 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Absent

6:14 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

6:11 PM

Larry Hoy

Committee Chair

Present

6:11 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present

6:12 PM
6:13 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:11 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:09 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:11 PM
6:09 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:11 PM

Director Anderson participated via phone. Directors Deadwyler, Folska and Sisk were
absent.
Staff Present :

Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Heather Copp, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Cory Granrud,
Sherman Hamilton, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Ray McNamara, Thomas Papadinoff,
Mace Pemberton, Michael Peters, Scott Reed, Henry Stopplecamp,
John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Michael
Washington.

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Jill Marcy, Julie McKenna, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the
Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors
reappoint one member of the Committee to an additional three-year term and
appoint five new members to the Committee to a three-year term.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the May 31, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
shared with the Board some of the highlights regarding the
RTD Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Appointments. On
February 18, 2016, recruitment for citizens interested in
serving was publicly advertised through the RTD and
FasTracks Web sites, media releases, local publications and
stakeholder e-mail distributions. Applicants were asked to
submit a one-page letter stating their interest in serving on the
CAC along with specific qualifications, highlights of related
experience and expertise, and a resume if available. A total of
45 applications were received by the March 31, 2016
deadline.
Two of the current serving members were eligible for
reappointment, of which one member committed to serve an

additional three year term. Following review of the application
materials, the nominating committee interviewed nine finalists.
The nominating committee came to a consensus on the
selection of the nominees for the CAC.
Scott Reed reminded the Board of an important change to the
CAC’s focus, which will now broaden to include advising on
topics agency-wide.
Director Lubow stated she was very impressed by the quality
of candidates that applied for the CAC and congratulated
Scott Reed and his team for their public outreach that
generated applicants with such a high level of expertise and
interest.
Director Walker said he was impressed with the breadth of
background of the candidates and that the appointees have
great qualifications.
Director Bagley thanked the nominating committee for
appointing someone from District H for the first time. Director
Hoy pointed out that there is no requirement that every
District has a CAC representative, but during the process it is
one of the aspects considered.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Contract Amendment for the Westminster Park and Ride Pedestrian Bridge
Painting & Rehabilitation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a
construction contract amendment with TMI Coatings, Inc. in the amount of
$390,595.81. This Contract Amendment to the Westminster Park-N-Ride
(PnR) Pedestrian Bridge Painting & Rehabilitation Project (Contract No.
16DP001) is for the restoration of the adjoining access ramps to the
pedestrian bridge over US36 at the RTD US36 Sheridan Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) Station. With this amendment, the total contract value would be
$839,283.74

Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the May 31, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager of
Capital Programs, introduced Cory Granrud, Manager of ParkN-Ride Design, and Michael Peters, Engineer IV, who were
with him this evening. He explained that staff was already
working on the pedestrian bridge through the Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP) process. He noted maintenance and rehabilitation
is an ongoing process for all RTD structures across the
system. RTD received a request from the US36 Corridor to do
some more work on the pedestrian bridge, which is why staff
is recommending the contract amendment.
Cory Granrud pointed out that the US36 & Sheridan Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT) Station Pedestrian Bridge over US36 was
constructed in 1995. This bridge is now showing signs of rust
and concrete damage that require rehabilitation. Staff issued
an Invitation for Bid (IFB) last year regarding the Pedestrian
Bridge painting and repairs but the quotes came in higher than
anticipated. He explained that staff restructured the bid and
put it out this year as a Request for Proposals (RFP) in order to
receive more thorough responses from more qualified
contractors submitting proposals. Staff accepted proposals
on March 25, 2016 from three prime contractors:
o Gonzales Custom Painting, Inc.
o TMI Coatings, Inc.
o RMA Group, Inc.
On April 6, 2016 a final evaluation and recommendation
meeting occurred where it was recommended by the technical
evaluation committee that the most technically qualified, and
mid-range cost proposal submitted that is within the project
budget, was contractor TMI Coatings, Inc. (TMI). A base bid
of approximately $450,000 was made and the contract
duration is 180 calendar days. The base bid contract will
restore the bridge as follows:
1. Prepare and paint steel members dark grey
2. Replace clear Lexan side panels
3. Remove chain link fence
4. Patch and coat concrete decks with a skid resistant
material

The contract amendment will restore the adjoining ramps as
follows:
1. Repair the concrete support columns under the Denverbound side of US36
2. Replace the rain gutters and downspouts
3. Replace the green vinyl clad chain link fence with grey
galvanized chain link fence
4. Treat and coat the stay-in-place metal formwork of the
ramp decks located over walkways
5. Patch and coat the concrete decks with skid resistant
material.
Cory Granrud stated this contract amendment will utilize
currently budgeted US36 BRT Local Expense funds.
Director Hoy shared that he was at US36 & Sheridan Bus
Rapid Transit Station when RTD began the Flatiron Flyer
service. The constituents were, for the most, part happy with
the service and ridership numbers have shown an increase in
that area since the introduction of the BRT system. He said
the only complaints he really heard were in regards to the
Pedestrian Bridge. After personally reviewing the bridge in
follow up to the complaints he noticed that the bridge was in
need of repair, especially with the increased volume of
customers using this bridge now due to the change in our
service Director Hoy stated he believes this project is
necessary.
Director Archuleta asked about the actual pricing submitted by
all three contractors. Cory Granrud responded that as far as
costs, TMI Coatings, Inc. came in the middle of the other two
but he did not have specific dollar amounts he could share
with Director Archuleta at this time. He pointed out that TMI
rated the highest during the technical evaluation for
knowledge and experience. He indicated TMI rates quite a bit
higher than the other two in these categories.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates
There were no updates presented.

D. Other Matters
Chair Tobiassen reminded the Directors that there is a Budget Workshop on
Thursday 12th May, 2016 from 12:00 to 1:00 p.m. The subject of session will be
the amended budget. He asked Directors to inform the Board Office if they
planned to attend if they had not yet done so.
Director Bagley noted there had been some discussion about cancelling the
FasTracks Monitoring, Planning and Development and Government Relations
Committee Meetings in June. He asked for confirmation that these meetings were
cancelled. Committee Chair Hoy stated the meetings for June had been cancelled
so those committees would meet next on July 5, 2016.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 5, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:27 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

