1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

AGENDA
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, May 10, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
• Contract Amendment for the Westminster Park and Ride Pedestrian Bridge
Painting & Rehabilitation

C. Updates
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - July 5, 2016
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 3, 2016

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 3, 2016

Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

Subject:

RTD
Citizens
Appointments

Advisory

Committee

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Nominating Committee for the RTD
Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of
Directors reappoint one member of the Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint five new
members to the Committee to a three-year term.
BACKGROUND
On April 22, 2004, the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 5, Series of 2004, directing, in
part, staff to create a FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC). On Dec.13, 2005, the RTD Board
of Directors approved the structure of the CAC including its mission and function, the duties and roles of
its members, the selection process for members, and organizational and meeting procedures for the
committee. On Dec. 16, 2008, the RTD Board of Directors increased the number of members of the
CAC from eleven to seventeen.
Since its creation in 2005, the mission of the CAC has been to review the progress of the FasTracks
Program in relation to established schedules, budget allocations, DBE goals and quality management
guidelines; to provide region-oriented advice to the Board of Directors on issues related to the
implementation of the FasTracks program; to review and provide comment on the DRCOG SB208
Annual Report; and to promote public awareness and understanding of the voter-approved FasTracks
program and its implementation. Six current members’ terms expired on December 31, 2015.
As the District completes more elements of the FasTracks Program, opens five new projects in 2016,
and works to integrate new rail service into existing operations, the issues that input from the CAC
would be relevant and meaningful to the District are increasingly agency-wide. Therefore, on February
16, 2016, based on the CAC’s individual meetings with board members conducted earlier this year,
input from staff and extensive discussion by the committee, the RTD Board of Directors RTD Board of
Directors change the name of the RTD FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee to the RTD Citizens
Advisory Committee and revise the structure accordingly.
On February 18, 2016, recruitment for citizens interested in serving was publicly advertised through the
RTD and FasTracks Web sites, media releases, local publications and stakeholder e-mail distributions.
Applicants were asked to submit a one-page letter stating their interest in serving on the CAC along with
specific qualifications, highlights of related experience and expertise and a resume if available. A total of
45 applications were received by the March 31, 2016 deadline. Two current members were eligible for
reappointment and one expressed an interest in continuing to serve on the Committee.
The Nominating Committee decided, based on attendance, participation at meetings and Committee
consistency to recommend reappointment of the current member who requested reappointment. The
Nominating Committee then carefully reviewed each application using criteria outlined in the adopted
Committee Structure, including:

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Demonstrated interest in transit or other public policy advocacy.
Membership in business, civic, and environmental organizations.
Member of senior, low-income, minority, and/or disabled populations.
Experience in working with local jurisdictions on regional issues.
Previous community service.
Professional expertise and qualifications.
Following review of the application materials, the Nominating Committee interviewed nine finalists.
The following current member is recommended for reappointment to an additional three-year term
expiring May 31, 2018:
Ken Claussen works for the University of Colorado Cancer Center in the IT department. He is the current
vice chair of the City and County of Broomfield’s Local Licensing Authority, which is primarily
responsible for issuing liquor licenses and enforcing of liquor license code. He is a former vice chair of
the City of Westminster Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, serving 4 years on that board. He
volunteers his time at a number of organizations in the north metro area. Mr. Claussen holds a Bachelor
of Science degree from Western Illinois University, a Bachelors of Computer Science degree from
Metropolitan State College of Denver and an MBA from Oklahoma City University. He uses the RTD
system daily to commute to the University of Colorado at Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora, and is a
resident of Broomfield, RTD District I.
The following applicants are recommended for appointment to three-year terms expiring on May 31,
2018:
Gabriella Arismendi is a Transportation Planner for Stolfus and Associates in the Denver Tech Center.
She leads statewide efforts pertaining to multi-modal transportation planning and transportation systems
management and operations. Prior to Stolfus, she worked for over seven years in the public sector for a
municipality and the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) in Orlando, Fl. She coordinated efforts
between the state DOT, the transit authority, and the MPO on sustainable transit planning practices and
addressed last-mile connectivity throughout the Central Florida region. She commutes to work via light
rail and rides the bus to run errands on the weekends. Ms. Arismendi holds a Master’s Degree in Public
Administration from Florida International University and a Graduate Certificate in Urban and Regional
Planning from the University of Central Florida. She resides with her husband in Littleton, RTD District H.
Joseph Lamers is retired from the Metropolitan State University of Denver (MSUD), where he worked in
a variety of Information Technology positions. Since retiring he has made transportation, particularly for
special populations, his focus. Joe is an active member of the Jefferson County LCC and the RTD
Accessibility Design Panel. He uses the RTD system on a daily basis including fixed bus and rail routes
and Access-A-Ride. Joe has a Bachelor of Arts in Management from the University of Denver, a
Certificate in Non-Profit Administration and a BS in Computer Management Systems from MSUD. He
served on the Comprehensive Planning Advisory Committee, charged with writing the 2025
Comprehensive Plan, for the City of Lakewood and graduated from the Transit Alliance Citizens
Academy in 2015. Joe and his wife live in Lakewood, RTD District M.
Ryan McCaw works for local non-profit affordable housing and human services provider Metro West
Housing Solutions, owner of more than 1,200 apartments and 100,000+ square feet of commercial
space in Lakewood and Denver. He has a diverse background in real estate development, sustainable
design, real estate finance, and urban planning and has worked in the private, non-profit, and public

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

sectors. His roles include new real estate development planning and financing, funding acquisition and
grant writing, and integrating sustainability into new and existing real estate investments and agency
operations. He is a LEED AP O+M and received a Bachelor of Environmental Design from the University
of Colorado and a Master of City of Planning and real estate certificate from the University of
Pennsylvania. Ryan serves on multiple community-oriented boards and committees and actively
volunteers with his graduate school alumni club. Ryan is a Denver native and lives in RTD District D.
Joanna Morsicato is currently a manager for Environment and Planning at Michael Baker International
with a focus on transportation. She has many years of transportation planning and public involvement
experience for roadway and transit projects, working with diverse audiences and community interests.
Recent projects have included the Honolulu Rail Transit Project and the RTD SE and SW Corridor Light
Rail Extensions. She is a life-long transit user and supporter of multi-modal transportation
opportunities. Ms. Morsicato has a BA in Anthropology from the University of Chicago and an MA in
Geography with an Urban Planning emphasis from the University of Colorado, Denver. She has been a
Colorado resident for over 40 years and is a long time resident of unincorporated Jefferson County
within RTD District N.
Pastor Del Phillips currently serves as president of the Greater Metro Denver Ministerial Alliance and
founder and convener of the Colorado Black Leadership Caucus, a collaboration of key community
leaders within the African American Community. He has served as senior Pastor of The House Worship
Center for more than twenty years and as a clergyman for more than 35 years. He attended Howard
University in Washington D.C. and has honorary degrees in the field of Theology. He was recently
appointed by Mayor Hancock to the Colorado Crime Commission, serves on the boards of Urban League
Denver, One Chance Colorado, and a host of advisory positions for civic and community organizations.
Pastor Phillips is a lifelong Denver resident and resides in RTD District A.

ALTERNATIVES
Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and
Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint one member of the Committee to an additional threeyear term and appoint five new members to the Committee for three-year terms.
Modify the recommended appointments to the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee. This is not
recommended as the appointments have been carefully considered and meet the parameters of the
Committee Structure adopted by the RTD Board of Directors.
Do not adopt the Recommended Action. This is not recommended as this alternative would delay the
appointment new members to the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee following an extensive recruitment
and review process
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact.

Prepared by:
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 5, 2016

From:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

May 5, 2016

Board Meeting Date: May 31, 2016

Subject:

Contract Amendment for the Westminster Park
and Ride Pedestrian Bridge Painting &
Rehabilitation

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a construction contract amendment with TMI Coatings,
Inc. in the amount of $390,595.81. This Contract Amendment to the Westminster Park-N-Ride (PnR)
Pedestrian Bridge Painting & Rehabilitation Project (Contract No. 16DP001) is for the restoration of the
adjoining access ramps to the pedestrian bridge over US36 at the RTD US36 Sheridan Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) Station. With this amendment, the total contract value would be $839,283.74
BACKGROUND
The Westminster Center (US36 & Sheridan Bus Rapid Transit Station) Pedestrian Bridge over US36 was
constructed in 1995. It is a steel truss bridge structure with a concrete deck and enclosed pedestrian
walkway. Circular steel and concrete pedestrian access ramps on both ends of the bridge were
constructed at the same time. The bridge and ramps were originally painted federal green. In 2001, the
Westminster Center Park n Ride parking garage structure was constructed on the Boulder-bound side of
US36. A steel and concrete deck ramp extension was placed between the garage and the north access
ramp. Some maintenance has been performed on the bridge and ramps. A 2014 inspection revealed
areas of rust and concrete damage that require rehabilitation. The federal green paint has, over time,
flaked and salts including magnesium chloride have eaten away various areas of the coating; the
exposed steel is rusting. See Figures 1 and 2 (below) for project location.
DISCUSSION
A Request For Proposals (RFP) and construction plans and specifications were issued in February 2016
in order to solicit quality proposals from reputable contractors who were qualified and properly certified
in the rehabilitation of pedestrian bridges and ramps. Because of funding concerns, the pedestrian
bridge was designated as a base bid and the ramps were designated as an “add alternate.”
The responding contractors provided experience and qualification evidence for: (a) Site investigations
and materials testing; (b) Restoration and construction options; (c) Preparing structural steel member
surfaces (i.e., clean and remove rust); (d) Paint complex steel structural members above a highway; (e)
Prepare and repair reinforced concrete deck; (f) Prepare and repair reinforced concrete structural
supports; (g) Remove and replace broken downspouts and gutters; (h) Apply concrete deck coating; (i)
Recent experience on similar projects with government agencies (j) Provide safe and efficient highway
traffic control, vehicular and pedestrian detours; (k) Ensure public safety, structural integrity and
continued reliability of existing infrastructure; (l) Schedule and manage regular construction meetings;
(m) Administer contracts, construction management, invoices, inspection reports and other construction
related services; (n) Assist RTD staff with site inspections; (o) Coordinate proposed work with local,
state and federal agencies including obtaining work permits.

Packet Pg. 7

1.B.2

The evaluation criteria included technical merits, experience, personnel and cost, weighted as follows:
 40%: knowledge, certification and technical experience, Quality Assurance/Quality Control,
structural concrete repair, highway and pedestrian traffic control, and safety.
 20%: experience and project understanding, recent similar work, coordination with government,
coordination with subcontractors and strength of organizational chart.
 40%: cost.
Proposals were accepted March 25, 2016 from three prime contractors:
(1) Gonzales Custom Painting, Inc.;
(2) TMI Coatings, Inc.;
(3) RMA Group, Inc.
A technical evaluation committee of five RTD staff members independently reviewed and rated each
proposal. A final evaluation and recommendation meeting occurred April 6, 2016. TMI Coatings, Inc.
was recommended as the most technically qualified, and had a mid-range cost that is within the project
budget.
Because of the best value determination, an award of $448,687.93 was made for the base bid. The
contract duration is 180 calendar days.
The base bid contract award will restore the bridge as follows: (1) prepare and paint steel members dark
grey, as accepted by RTD and the City of Westminster; (2) replace clear Lexan side panels; (3) remove
chain link fence; (4) patch and coat concrete decks with a skid resistant material.
This contract amendment will restore the adjoining ramps as follows; (1) repair the concrete support
columns under the Denver-bound side of US36; (2) replace the rain gutters and downspouts; (3) replace
the green vinyl clad chain link fence with grey galvanized chain link fence; (4) treat and coat the stay-inplace metal formwork of the ramp decks located over walkways; (5) patch and coat the concrete decks
with a skid resistant material.
The add alternate for this contract amendment was included in the contractor’s base bid, and will not
increase the contract duration.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This contract amendment will utilize currently budgeted US36 BRT Local Expense funds.
PROJECT SBE GOAL
A 6% SBE goal was established by RTD. The contractor exceeded this goal for the overall project base
bid and add alternate. The base bid and add alternate amount of $839,283.74, which includes
$57,533.00 SBE work for traffic control, glazing and fencing, provides a 6.86% SBE participation.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a construction contract amendment with TMI
Coatings, Inc. in the amount of $390,595.81. This Contract Amendment to the Westminster PnR
Pedestrian Bridge Painting & Rehabilitation Project (Contract No. 16DP001) is for the restoration
of the adjoining access ramps to the pedestrian bridge over US36 at the RTD US36 Sheridan BRT
Station. With this amendment, the total contract value would be $839,283.74.

Packet Pg. 8

1.B.2

2.

3.

Delay implementing the Recommended Action: Instead, reissue a new set of plans and
specifications and issue a separate Invitation for Bid for the access ramps. This is not
recommended because:
a. It delays the access ramp restoration that is needed for repair and aesthetic appearance.
b. The current accepted contractor, TMI Coatings, Inc., will perform a complete “turn-key”
project, which is determined to be the most qualified with a fair and reasonable price.
c. The Engineering Division and the Procurement Office do not believe that a separate bidding
process will give better results. A better quality of the work is anticipated with this approach.
d. The funds are currently available.
Do not award: This is not recommended because the deteriorated condition of the pedestrian
ramps, downspouts, gutters and concrete are approaching a safety concern.

ATTACHMENTS:


Figure 1 and 2

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Cory Granrud, Manager, Park-n-Ride Design
Stan Szabelak, Manager, Civil Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Figure 1 and 2 (2784 : Westminster Ped Bridge Rehab)

1.B.2.a

Figure 1

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Figure 1 and 2 (2784 : Westminster Ped Bridge Rehab)

1.B.2.a

Figure 2

Packet Pg. 11

