Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, March 22, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 6:45 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:42 PM
6:42 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Absent
Present
Absent

6:47 PM
6:39 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:41 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Absent

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:42 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

6:39 PM
6:38 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Absent

6:43 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Absent

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:42 PM

Director Francone, Director Solano and Chair Tobiassen were absent. Director James left
before the start of the meeting and Director Lasater left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter,
Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Charles Culig, Nate
Currey, John Elias, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, David Genova, Bob
Grado, Doug Gragg, George Hovey, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug
MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Barbara McManus, Doug
Monroe, Ryan Oge, Kevin Parker, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato,
Richard Rost, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Sarah Camacho, Andrea Chiriboga-Flor, Gary Forbes, Brad Langner,
Jill Marcy, Dan McKeehan, Steve Monan, Tom Peterson, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn, Daniela Villareal, Greg Yates

B. Recommended Actions

• Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 A Resolution Expressing the intent of the
Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the financing of the
FasTracks Project
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain
expenses relating to the financing of the FasTracks Project.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the March 29, 2016 Board
Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, indicated this is a
practice the Board has done in the past. She said staff plans
to do a debt issuance sometime in June for additional
FasTracks bonds for the Southeast Rail Extension as well as a
finishing up a few other items for the lines that are opening
this year. She explained that certain expenses are already
being incurred, such as right of way acquisition, to ensure the
projects continue to move forward. This resolution allows for
those expenses to be reimbursed by a future FasTracks bond
issuance.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Walker
ABSENT:
Deadwyler, Francone, James, Solano, Tobiassen
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• January 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report
Douglas MacLeod, Controller, reminded the Board that at the end of
December, 2015, there were about 1400 tax returns the State received that
were corrupted. He said after the State reviewed the returns it appears
there was nothing material in them for RTD. He indicated this means we
ended the year with $11.3 million less in Sales and Use Tax revenue than
was budgeted.
Director Anderson expressed that she was very unhappy with the
Department of Revenue. She believes RTD is owed money from those
returns.
Douglas MacLeod said staff was surprised there was not something more
noticeable. He shared that staff did check with the City and County of
Denver and they experienced the same type of decrease. He indicated that
he feels comfortable that the December numbers are accurate.
Director Anderson stated she was still not pleased with the Department of
Revenue.
Doug MacLeod noted that as the Directors can see from the dashboard, RTD
is under budget in all categories. He pointed out that comparing 2015 to
2016 Sales and Use Tax is up 0.7% but is still below what was budgeted.
He said at this time staff plans to closely monitor the budget, but Heather
Copp has already begun discussing steps with the Amended Budget, SBP,
etc. to react as needed.
Heather Copp noted the most recent CU Leeds forecast follows more closely
with the Sales and Use Taxes we are seeing in January. The forecast they
provided in the fall was higher, which is what we used for the budget. She
stated the good news is that year over year we are still seeing increases
even though we are not reaching our targets. She said when you compare
our revenues with other entities we are in a much better place.

Heather Copp shared that staff is estimating a revenue shortfall of between
$12 to $20 million at this time. She anticipates it will be somewhere in the
middle. She stated that the revenue shortfall in 2015 of $11.3 million was
close to what staff forecasted mid-year as well. However, she does not
want to make a definitive statement with only one month’s worth of
information.
Question: Director Bagley believes this demonstrates that we are in a volatile
period right now nationally and statewide with our collection on sales and
use tax. There are many questions surrounding the presidential election, the
future of gas prices, and the employment outlook. Additionally, RTD just
implemented new fares and will be opening 5 new corridors in 2016. He
stated with all of these changes and uncertainty we have no idea how things
will turn out. He thinks the Finance Department has done a good job of
estimating our revenue shortfalls. He believes the Board needs to be
continually thoughtful of this.
Director Lubow wondered why Heather Copp believes RTD is doing good
compared to other transit agencies. Heather Copp shared that last week she
attended a meeting in New York where she heard presentations from other
transit agencies as well as Utility Companies and Departments of
Transportation who are not faring as well as we are. She believes that
Denver’s advantage is our city’s economic diversity with various business
sources like hospitals, telecommunication companies, energy companies,
government, etc. Denver’s economy is not concentrated in any one
industry. Even with present reductions in sales and use tax from the
telecom and oil industries state wide, Denver still has a strong underline
economy and consumer spending.
Heather Copp explained the problem is that consumer spending has been
directed presently to dining out, entertainment, and big box stores where
spending can easily fluctuate. These areas will be the first to decline if the
consumer begins to feel more economically skittish. Director Menten
wondered what type of forecasting we had for gasoline prices. Interim
General Manager Genova stated that staff monitors gas prices very closely.
He said they utilize a great tool that combines sources of historical data for a
better picture, but forecasting prices in the future is very challenging.

• Fourth Quarter 2015 Performance Report
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
reminded the Board that the full report was included in the March 22, 2016
Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet.
Director Lubow wondered if the performance standards include anything on
no shows or if those issues are just included under general customer
complaints.

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, stated there was
not a specific performance measure tracking no show buses. On the fixedroute side no shows would be reflected in customer complaints. On the
paratransit side operator shortages are reflected in the lower on-time
performance; there are not any no shows as RTD is obligated to provide
every paratransit trip. Director Judy Lubow wondered if it would be
worthwhile to have a performance measure surrounding no shows. She
believes this is worth considering.
Committee Chair Menten thought that it was a good suggestion, perhaps
under Goal 3.1 and 3.2. Jannette Scarpino noted a discussion of the 2017
performance measures was scheduled for the April 12 Committee Meeting.
Bruce Abel acknowledged the private contractor managers in attendance this
evening. He thanked them for their efforts in addressing our lost service
hours.
Director Lubow noticed in the Special Services report there seemed to be an
increase in preventable accidents. She wondered if there was a reason.
Bruce Abel explained that staff has seen a very slow increase in preventable
accidents. He believes having an increased focus on this will help bring the
numbers back down.
Director Lubow noted that ridership on Access-a-Ride increased with it
decreased on Access-a-Cab, which is opposite from what we want. She
asked if there was a reason. Bruce Abel indicated that RTD saw a
meaningful increase in Access-a-Cab ridership when the subsidy was
changed several years ago. He believes it might be time to look at the
subsidy level again as taxi rates are increasing.

• Fiscal Sustainability Update
Jannette Scarpino reminded the Board that the Fiscal Sustainability Task
Force was formed in November, 2010, for the purpose of making
recommendations related to opportunities for operating efficiencies and
revenue enhancement for the Base System to ensure RTD’s long-term fiscal
sustainability. The Task Force presented its written recommendations to the
Board of Directors in June, 2011. The Board of Directors subsequently
approved those recommendations and directed Staff to pursue
implementation of each recommendation. She noted that many of the high
priority items have been implemented. She reviewed the items that were
either ongoing or outstanding as follows:
 The Fund balance policy has a target level of $90 million for the Base
System and two months operating expenses for FasTracks. At the
fiscal year end 2015 preliminary numbers show a Base System






balance amount of $69.5 million prior to audit adjustments. When
combined with FasTracks it is $84.3 million on a preliminary basis.
Within the technology and energy innovation, RTD is already seeing
significant savings with respect to lighting improvements that have
already been implemented. Staff is continuing with lighting upgrades
throughout our various facilities as the budget allows,
Sales and Use Tax audits were brought to a close at the end of 2015
due to limited remaining opportunities to identify lost revenue.
Staff continues to pursue opportunities for Naming Rights. The first
naming rights agreement went into effect with the University of
Colorado that will have a total gross payments of $5 million over the
next five years.

Director Menten commented that she sees more and more private entities
adding charging stations for electric vehicles at their facilities. She knows
infrastructure for charging stations was added at some of our facilities so
third parties could set up stations if they wanted. She wondered if there
was any interest in that. Bruce Abel stated that the only location that
incorporated that infrastructure was the Central Park Station along the
University of Colorado A-Line.

• Budget and SBP Calendar
Jannette Scarpino explained that the purpose of the SBP/Budget Calendar is
to help the Board anticipate the timing of the development of the 2016
Amended Budget, 2017-2022 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP), and the 2017
Budget. It will be very important for the Board to provide their input during
the development process. She noted the following important dates:
 April 12 – present 2017 Performance Measures for discussion along
with high level SBP review
 April 26 – present first draft of the SBP and review 2016 Amended
Budget Issues
 May 24 – presentation of 2017-2022 SBP
 June 28 – Adoption of 2016 Amended Budget
 July 19 – Adoption of 2017-2022 SBP
 November 22 – 2017 Budget Adoption
Director Bagley commented that there was a Board Budget Workshop
scheduled for Thursday from 1:00 – 3:00 p.m. He suggested this be
rescheduled due to an unforeseen conflict. 1st Vice-Chair Hoy explained that
he had been asked by Chair Tobiassen to share that this had been officially
cancelled. He indicated the Board Office staff would work with the Finance
Department to get it scheduled.

• SmartCard Project Update
Heather Copp shared that through the first 10 weeks of the public pilot
program 1080 total cards have been issued. She indicated the split between
full fare and discount cards has been very consistent throughout the pilot.
She explained that staff wants to have about 5K people in the public pilot
program before moving forward with more widespread implementation. She
said so far there have been no back office issues but they would like to see
more data before feeling confident in moving forward. She noted the online
self-service portal will not be online until June 30th, at which time she thinks
the program can become more mainstream.
Heather Copp noted the conversations with King Soopers had not been
going as well as staff hoped. King Soopers originally had a blackout period
through February 1st; however, they have since begun installing new credit
card readers so they want to further delay implementation.
George Hovey, Manager of the Program Management Office, reiterated that
the advancement of the self-service portal is a very important aspect of the
project. He stated that over the weekend we would be going live with the
new data center that will address the needed cyber security elements for
credit cards.
Heather Copp commented that staff had been concerned about delivery of
the hand held media readers but this has been moved to a green status.
Director Lubow asked if her understanding was correct that, provided
everything goes well, the Smart Cards could go live to the general public by
June 30. Heather Copp stated that if the web portal is up on June 30 the
general public could access the portal starting July 1. She explained that as
it stands today, we need more convenient access for our customers to load
and re-load their cards.
Committee Chair Menten asked if King Soopers was having any problems
besides the basic set-up. Heather Copp stated that she does not think they
are opposed to selling the Smart Cards, it is really just about timing.
Unfortunately we are just not their top priority right now. Scott Reed,
Assistant General Manager of Communications, shared that staff does have
a meeting at the end of the month with King Soopers to hopefully determine
a pilot location and get the process moving forward again. He believes
having a public facing web portal will be a huge step forward from a
customer service perspective. Committee Chair Menten wondered how
many King Soopers are in the District. Scott Reed said he would need to get
the exact figure but there were many.

Director Folska suggested the King Soopers at I-225 and Parker as the pilot
store as it is one of their most profitable. She also thinks it would be worth
having a conversation with Target again, particularly the Glendale Target.
Scoot Reed stated it was up to King Soopers to determine the store. They
specifically said they do not want it to be one of their busier stores so it is
unlikely to be the I-25 and Parker location. He shared that staff has pursued
many other potential retail outlets but have not been successful.
Director Folska commented that it is better for us if our customers use our
web portal so we do not have to pay King Soopers a processing fee. She
wondered if we might set up kiosks at DIA or perhaps hotels in the City.
Scott Reed said that DIA would have kiosks as well as a sales outlet. He
shared that kiosks have been installed at various locations but have been
used very sporadically overall.

• Internal Audit Report
Kevin Parker, Senior Internal Auditor, indicated there were six audit
summaries included in the March 22, 2016 Financial Administration and
Audit Committee Packet. He asked if there were any questions.
Committee Chair Menten asked when Internal Audit started the process for
taking audit requests for 2017. He explained that generally in the beginning
of the 3rd quarter Internal Audit will ask Senior Management and Board
Members for suggestions.
Scott Reed noted there have been some questions related to Internal Audit’s
reporting structure. He wanted to make it clear that Internal Audit has
complete independence. They fall within the Communications Department
solely from an administrative standpoint. He recognized there would be
some communications audits coming up in the future so the reporting
structure would be reviewed to ensure there was no appearance of
impropriety.

D. Other Matters
Scott Reed informed the Board that a bus to go to Cal Marsella’s memorial service
on Thursday would depart Blake Street at 12:20 p.m. He said there would be a
reception immediately following. He indicated Cal’s family really wanted this to be
a celebration of his life.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 12, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 7:42 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

