Apr 3 2018 0530 PM Civil Rights Committee
Committee SD 480
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the first meeting of the
Civil Rights Committee for this year, this being Tuesday, April 3 2018. My name is Doug
Tisdale. I serve as the chair of the Civil Rights Committee. And we are delighted to have you all
with us here this evening. There are no recommended actions for the committee to act upon.
There is one very important update, and I have had the pleasure of having a discussion with Zami
Silva about the report that she has ready for us this evening. And I think you're in for a treat to
hear some of the fantastic highlights that we can brag about here at the RTD. So with that, let me
present to you this evening Ms. Zami Silva.
ZAMI SILVA: Good evening. Thank you so much. I will not take too much time.
SPEAKER 1: Yep. Mic needs to go green.
ZAMI SILVA: Nope.
SPEAKER 2: There you go.
ZAMI SILVA: There we go. Thank you. So, I've prepared this presentation but I will just do a
few highlights. We had a great year in 2017, but one of our proudest moments was in November
where we celebrated our $1 billion mark being paid to small minority disadvantaged and womenowned businesses. Something to celebrate. That is unheard of throughout the nation. RTD, in
partnership with the prime contractors, the small business and the organizations that represent
and advocate for small businesses-- we did this together in Fast Tracks. And so, I just wanted to
let you know that we had the event to celebrate that, as well as we had a video that is now on
RTD's website. And you can go on, how to do business with RTD or click on DBE SPE
programs, and you should be able to find a video.
And we were featured in several publications throughout the nation, including the DBE national
magazine. So a great, great mark. FDA was also there and spoke very highly about RTD's
program.
On the ADA side of the house, later last year we established a new committee-- which is called
advisory committee for people with disability, ACPD-- really just to partner with our disability
community. We've had a couple of meetings. We have 13 members, as well as we have 11
internal RTD-steering committee members made up of senior leadership and senior managers at
RTD. The committee is working on various initiatives. They have great input, and so we are
really excited about the future of this committee at RTD.

In terms of the EEO program, one of the major goals for this year and next year is to train all of
the RTD employees. So those are some major initiatives. Now I'm going to open it up for any
questions or comments that you may have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Zami. And again-- just because we can't say this
enough-- $1 billion is what we have invested in small and minority and women business-owned
enterprises. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Thank you very much, Zami. I really
appreciate this update. And Chair Tisdale's quite right. That's a huge amount of money, and this
agency and the district should be really proud of that, for uplifting folks in our community. One
of the things that struck me, Zami-- when you were talking about the ADA side of the house-reminded me that, what is concerning to me about any and all conversations regarding folks with
disabilities within the district is that they are in another side of the house. And my hope is that
this agency will embrace them into every side of the house. Thank you.
ZAMI SILVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Folska. And I think its a rhetorical device in terms of
speaking one side of the house or the other, but your point is well taken that our sensitivity needs
to be there. That's right. I also want to point out that there is a hard copy of this report that will
be forthcoming. We have not concluded the preparation of the final report because things have
been moving so quickly and so excitedly as to all of this. So we just wanted you to know that,
yes, that will be forthcoming. Are there other questions or comments for Zami while she's here
relative to the achievements that our civil rights division has accomplished this year? And seeing
none on this side of the house-- and I do that as a joke-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'll catch you later.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Let me ask if Director Deadwyler has any comments or questions. Director
Deadwyler, are you with us and if so, do you have any comments or questions at this time? I
think we're OK on that, then. And before-- I have one final announcement I want to make-- but
let me ask, Zami, do you have anything else that you want to add at this time?
ZAMI SILVA: No, thank you very much for the opportunity.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the fine report. We appreciate that tremendously. I
do want to point out that some of you have received-- and I know that I believe Director Catlin
has signed up, as I have, for the [? COMTO ?] lunch, which is the council of minority transit
operators scholarship luncheon on Friday, April 8. And if you have not signed up for that, we
have seats available and it would be a tremendous opportunity for you to show support for this
program and for these individuals. So if you would, please check with [INAUDIBLE] or with
me, and we'll make sure that we get you signed up for that. Is there any further business to come
before the civil rights committee at this time?

Hearing none, our next meeting will be conducted on Tuesday, October the 2nd, 2018. And with
that, ladies and gentlemen, we stand adjourned.

