2022-01-06
Executive Committee Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, everybody, for being here. I am going to now call the Thursday, January 6, 2022
Executive Committee to order. The record will reflect that we are convened as of 12:02 PM Mountain
Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
I'll now call the roll. Vince Buzek is here. First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Groovy. Second Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. We've got five members present, no members absent. We have a quorum. I also
want to recognize other Directors that are here. Eric Davidson, Angie Rivera-Malpiede. And I think that's
all the other Directors. We of course have GM CEO Johnson and General Counsel Snyder and all of our
Board staff assembled too. So thanks, everybody, for being here.
I'm going to state for the record for a reminder to everyone and everybody that may be listening that the
Transit Security Administration, the TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement for public
transportation until March 18, 2022. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a
face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation to include airports and aircraft, train
stations and trains, bus stops, and buses. Everybody out there, wear a mask, please, when you're riding
RTD.
The first order of business for today are the standing committee appointments. And I'm going to start a
little off script, because I had some questions about this new process of the Executive Committee
recommending the makeup and the Board ratifying, and I've asked General Counsel Snyder to tell us the
mechanics of that and how that works.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So when the Board
adopted the amendments to the bylaws last year, that effectuated a repeal of the prior standing
committees, as well as the committee of the whole structure. So we now have this Executive Committee
and three new standing committees, the first of which will meet next week.

So today, this committee is going to appoint the members of those three standing committees for
ratification by the full Board on January 25. And as far as the process today, I know there are a number of
discussion items to address first. But when you are ready, Mr. Chair, to move to the recommended action
portion of the agenda, you will need to take formal action today as the Executive Committee.
So what I'd recommend is you kind of take each committee one by one, starting likely with the Operations
and Safety Committee that'll be meeting next week. And I recommend you just either make or entertain a
motion and just go one by one.
So the motion, for example, would be I move that Directors A, B, and C be appointed to the Operations
and Safety Committee. And then you would entertain a second and a discussion, and just move through
each of the three. Then Board staff can update the recommended action that'll ultimately be approved in
the Board report going to the full Board.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. So my question had to do with the ratification process at the Board. My
understanding is these appointments as they come out of here today, those are the committees that will
meet, for example, next week when Operations meets. Those are the people that meet prior to
ratification. So can you explain how that works and what ratification means? And is it a possibility that
they don't get ratified?
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, you're correct, yes, that the committee appointments today will be effective
today, and the first committee that meets next week will be made up of the composition of who's
appointed today. The Board will officially ratify on the 25th. And so that will be the formal ratification.
And certainly, there's not going to be any official full Board action by the committees. Those are always
going to have to be-- a formal action will always be taken by the Board as a whole. Ratification really does
envision-- it's a bit ceremonial in the sense that really the Board should be approving, officially approving
the committee appointments that are made by this Executive Committee.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, great. Thank you for that clarification. That's very helpful.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: A couple of things. Everybody was asked-- all of our Board members were asked to
contact the Board office and let them know what their preferences were with regard to the standing
committees and also with regard to the external appointments that the Chair makes. So we have a
spreadsheet that was assembled by Board staff.
And there were a couple corrections, because a couple people-- where's Eric Davidson? A couple of
people kind of didn't-- so there were a couple of corrections that we had to do along the way. We did that
just to make sure we were honoring the requests of Board members.
So we put together-- and when I say we, I started out putting together a list of what those committees
would look like with five members and what they would look like with seven members. And Ms, McManus,

are you able to share the screen of the compositions that shows the five and seven-member makeup of
committees?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, [INAUDIBLE] will be sharing that.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And while they're pulling that up, I'll just say that what we had to do with some of
the seven-member committees was put people in committees that didn't seem like they were really thrilled
to be on, that wasn't their second or maybe their third choices.
So the first thing we're going to address today is whether we have committees of five members and of
seven members. And my understanding is we can have committees that have-- some have seven and
some have five. You don't have to have across the board five-member committees or across the board
seven-member committees. And Ms. Snyder, is that your understanding as well?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair. That's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. So First Vice Chair Guissinger and I kind of went through this, and we went
through the spreadsheet of what Directors' preferences were. And we found that if you look at it kind of
organically, the way it fell out was that Finance had seven Board members that were interested.
Operations and Safety had five members that were very interested. And the Performance Committee had
five members that were-- it was either their first or second choices.
So that's kind of how the seven versus five-member committees worked out. And of we have that
spreadsheet that shows that breakout, maybe we can show that. Now, unless anybody has any questions
on this one. Does anybody have any questions on this? I'll entertain questions.
OK. I don't see any questions on there. So if you could share the screen next of that breakout that kind of
was organically broken out of seven in Finance and five for Operations and Safety and Performance. And
you can see the people that compose this, the makeup of these committees.
And like I said before, it fell out this way organically, and it was also a way that we were able to honor
people's requests. What happens here is that there are three people based on their expressed interests
that are on two committees. One of them is Directer Dishell, one is Director Lewis, and one is Director
Catlin. And everybody else got their first choices to be on the committees they're on.
I think this is an easier way to go. We're not putting people on committees that they don't really have the
interest or maybe the time to be involved in. So I'm going to open it up now to discussion among the
Executive Committee, see what you all think.
TROY WHITMORE: And so on the three individuals that are on two committees, I'm assuming that all
three of them did get their first choice committee, which is pivotal. So perhaps the only fly in the ointment
is if we have one of those individuals that just can't fulfill two committees.
And if that's the case, I guess we might have some troubles with the numbers, Melanie, if I'm making the
right deduction here. But obviously, we could move people around if that's the case.

But otherwise, I think it's a grand plan and gets people where they want to be by and large. So good-well, more than by and large. First choices, everybody's on those. So I think that gets us a good start with
the energy flow being the right direction. So good work on that, Vince and Lynn and staff.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Thanks. And I guess to that point, if in fact any of those Directors on two
committees come back and say, this is way too much for me, yeah, we can definitely tweak that as we
come out of here. Director Guissinger-- First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just basically what you said. It was a very good point. And I think we've talked with- Director Catlin is here. She can speak for herself. Maybe we need to call Directors Dishell and Lewis
later today and just double check. But I do think it seems like we got most people-- what they were
looking for, I think.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, First Vice Chair. Second Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think this one does look good with the two committees of five
and one committee of seven, so I think we should go with that.
And my question was really-- I know Lynn had called me asking, are you sure you want to be on two with
some of the other obligations? And I said, well, I do have the time, unlike-- I have quite a bit of flexibility.
But I was just curious if you did talk to Directors Dishell and Lewis, since they both have full-time jobs. So
I was just curious if you had double-checked with them.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. We were doing this at the 11th hour, so we definitely need to do that. I'm hopeful
they'll be able to do it, because the committees that they're on, I think it's really important for them to be
on it. I'd love to have them on those committees. But we will definitely do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So they haven't been consulted.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. We haven't had the time. We were working on this till 10 minutes ago.
PEGGY CATLIN: I know, and I really appreciate this hard work. It actually sorted out rather nicely in my
opinion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We agree.
TROY WHITMORE: It's magical, and thank you for serving on two, Peggy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I don't know if that's magical, but you're welcome. [LAUGHS]
TROY WHITMORE: It is.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So it seems like we've got consensus on five versus seven, and in this case doing
seven for Finance, five for Operations and Safety, and five for Performance. Is that accurate? Anybody
object to that on the Executive Committee? No? Good.

The next thing we're going to talk about are meeting protocols. So we should discuss what kind of
meeting protocols we want to establish. For example, we've got committees that are not of the whole,
right? So every other Director can attend even if they're not appointed to the committee.
So the question then becomes, can they participate and speak during the meetings, or should they just be
required to observe? Let's take that one first. What do people think about that? Anybody have any
comments? Treasurer-- Secretary Sloan. Sorry.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I believe participation should be encouraged at the committee level so that you get a
broader group of opinions rather than just five or seven people. Some people will be more concerned
about some issues than others and would be motivated to speak up.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I tend to agree. I think more input is always better than less. Second Vice Chair
Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I agree with Secretary Sloan. I think that they should be able to participate.
And I hesitate to say this, but not dominate. I think that people who are not on the committee may not
attend every meeting, but may choose to because of a particular subject, which I think is good.
But I just want to make sure that the work of the committee is done by the committee members, and that
we get comment from other Board members, but that some-- I just don't want us to get sidetracked. Does
that make sense?
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. And the Chair and the Vice Chair of those committees will be responsible for
ensuring how they run, so they'll manage that stuff. So yeah, good. First Vice Chair Guissinger, Secretary
Whitmore, do you guys agree?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. Yep.
TROY WHITMORE: I'm fine with it, Vince. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. And of course, they won't be able to vote. If you're not on the committee, you don't
vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right.
VINCE BUZEK: Right? OK. Any other protocols we think we need to have for these meetings? I think
we've set days and times and things like that. So anything else you think we need to discuss here? No?
OK. Oh, I'm sorry.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, I'll just speak up. I would just note that we've agreed to have public comment
at each of these.

VINCE BUZEK: Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's part of the overarching change to the bylaws. So
yeah. And it's a good thing to bring up again for anybody listening that public comment will be taken and
encouraged at each of the meetings, so good point. All right. Anything else on protocol?
Great. We're going to move on to internal and external appointments. So we talked about the internal.
We're going to-- did we pull that up yet? Yeah, we did. Never mind. So we talked about those and how we
came to that, how it was giving-- honoring everybody's first choices that we could, and even some
people's second choices.
So in terms of the-- there are some-- yeah. OK. I think we talked about that. So with regard to external
appointments, so this is the Chair's prerogative, right? So I made external appointments. And I tried to
give people their preferences on first and second choices. Sometimes it was hard, because if you've got
one person to appoint as the primary on something and five people want to be on it, you've got to kind of
figure out what's what.
So I've made those choices. They'll be coming out-- again, I tried to honor everybody's preferences. Most
importantly, I think on the Ad Hoc Audit Committee, my decision is that Second Vice Chair Catlin and
Director Davidson will continue to serve on that, because it just seemed to me that because you two have
done the grunt work, you've really gotten into this and dug in deep and have all that institutional
knowledge on what's going on.
And I think the rest of the Board respects you and the work that you do, and will continue to do so, so
that's why I did that. Second Vice Chair Catlin, do you have a comment or question?
PEGGY CATLIN: The chart that I have does not show Director Davidson on there.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I sent an email to [INAUDIBLE] on that. So it will. So I know it doesn't, but it will.
PEGGY CATLIN: So my question is, are we limited to two?
VINCE BUZEK: My understanding-- and General Counsel Snyder, my understanding is that an Ad Hoc
Committee can be three people. Is that correct? Otherwise, you need Board approval and public notice
and all that.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So there's not a limitation on the number of people that can
serve on an Ad Hoc Committee. It is an advisory committee to the Board, and so I do recommend that the
Ad Hoc Committees, just like the Redistricting Committee, for example, still follow open meetings
protocols, which means that you notice the meetings and that the public is able to participate. Not-pardon me. Be at the meeting and be able to watch the meeting, not necessarily participate.
PEGGY CATLIN: So to that point, if I might, I have heard from a couple other Board members who have
expressed interest. And if it's going to be noticed and the public can participate even with only two, I have
no-- I believe that we might want to open it up to a couple of other Board members, especially if they have
expressed interest and would like to take on some of those activities.

So that's just a thought I have. Because as General Counsel Snyder says, if we open it up to the public,
then it doesn't matter if it's two or five Board members who are on the Ad Hoc Committee.
VINCE BUZEK: So my question would be, Peggy, when you guys, when you and Eric had your meetings,
were they all noticed? Or maybe somebody else can answer that question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, the meetings that we had, they were more kind of managerial meetings where we
were supposed to meet with Ann Marie. Those were rather sporadic. And then occasionally, General
Manager CEO Johnson would attend those as well.
But the other meetings that we had with-- just a few of the meetings that we had for the process-- and I
can defer to General Manager Debra Johnson when we had, for example, the consultant on Board in
those, I don't believe those were noticed. Were they, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So GM Johnson, if you want to-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. Just for clarification's sake, I think it would be helpful. So once again, Debra
Johnson, General Manager and CEO. To the point that was raised, these meetings were of the nature of
working with the Chair and the Vice Chair of the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee. It's no
different from the other preparatory meetings that are had with other Board members that chair the
Operations and Safety Committee or the Planning and Construction Capital Programs Committee.
So that was the nature of those meetings, to provide preparation processes as related to delivering
information to the public and getting Board materials ready, specifically in relationship to the work that
spawned from the independent reviews from the OSA, as well as the after peer review. It was basically
ensuring that there was alignment around the responses in the path forward with the recommendations.
So that is the qualifying distinction between how those meetings came to fruition. Thank you very kindly
for the opportunity to address.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And that's a big distinction, because it wasn't an Ad Hoc Committee meeting. It
was just the Chair and the Vice Chair of the Finance and Audit Committee. So the third person that has
expressed interest is Directer Dishell. If Ad Hoc Committee meetings are routinely noticed anyway, I
would be more than happy to also add Director Dishell, the only other person who listed an interest in
being on the Ad Hoc Committee.
What does anybody think about that? Not that-- everybody up? Thumbs up? Cool. All right. So Ms.
McManus, if you could note that the Ad Hoc Committee, Audit Committee will consist of Directors Catlin,
Davidson, and Dishell.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. OK. So any-PEGGY CATLIN: I do really appreciate that, because I had a long conversation with Director Dishell last
night, and he is very, very supportive of the work that we have done, and some directors didn't completely
understand that by his remarks. And he is really, I think, anxious to help out. So I appreciate his
perspective and his talents.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, that's great. Thanks for talking to him. And thanks for bringing it up. And I
apologize. That's my misunderstanding. I was under the assumption that an ad hoc committee for
whatever reason could only be two people, because that's all it's ever been. But now, knowing what I
know, that's great. I'm going to appoint lots of ad hoc committees with tons of people. No. Thanks. That's
great. Good information. Anything else anybody wants to-- oh, I'm sorry. First Vice Chair Guissinger,
please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just that to put Bobby on three committees like Director Catlin said, we do want to
be sure to call him today and make sure he's up for that. We can't hear you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're on mute. You're on mute.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I will call Director Dishell and Director Lewis after this meeting to confirm they're OK
with all that. OK. So that covers internal, external appointments. Next is our recommended actions for the
Board of Directors to ratify the 2022 Standing Committee appointments. The full Board must ratify the
Standing Committee appointments. The Board office staff will correct the Board report with the
assignments.
But to recap, the following Directors have been appointed. So my motion is going to be to appoint the
following Directors-- well, motion I'm looking for is to appoint the following Directors to the Finance
Committee. That would be Directors Catlin, Cook, Davidson, Guissinger, Whitmore, Broom, and Dishell.
Do I have a motion to appoint those Directors to the Finance Committee-- Standing Committee?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved. And I would say that's a powerhouse committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did you second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I second it. Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: And Guissinger. OK. Any further discussion on this committee? All in favor, say aye. Aye.
TROY WHITMORE: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Opposed? Anybody opposed? That carries 5 to 0. Next, we're going to seek a motion to
appoint the following members to the Operations and Safety Committee. They are Williams, Tisdale,
Rosenthal, Bouquet, and Lewis. Do I have a motion for those appointments?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.

MARJORIE SLOAN: And I second. And I would say that's also a terrific committee.
TROY WHITMORE: Indeed.
VINCE BUZEK: Any further discussion on those appointments to the Operations and Safety Committee?
All in favor, aye. Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Aye.
TROY WHITMORE: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Opposed? Nobody? 5 to 0. And for the Performance Standing Committee, I need a
motion to appoint the following members to the performance standing committee. Directors Lewis, Dishell,
Sloan, Catlin, and Buzek. Is there a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Guissinger and Troy Whitmore. And any discussion? All in favor, say aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Another great committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. All in favor, say aye. Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Opposed? Nobody. Yeah, and Director Sloan, everybody said that. Yeah, the way this
felt organically, I think it worked out well, and I hope they all think so as well. Anyway. OK. So Ms. Snyder,
does that satisfy the requirements of the appointments?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that was perfect. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much. OK. So now that they're appointed and they're going to be so
constituted, the committees with these people on them, I understand that there is some discussion about
a Finance Committee meeting or not having a Finance Committee meeting next Tuesday, and that it was
the preference I believe of our GM and some staff to not have a Finance Committee meeting.
I'd like to open this up to discussion to members of the Executive Committee, because I guess some of
the thinking is that maybe there should be the meeting to have that committee select their Chair and Vice
Chair so that they can begin their work in setting agendas and things like that. But let's open it up to
discussion. Second Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I understood that the reason that it was recommended that we not hold the
meeting is because they didn't have a lot of material to present. But I do think it would be appropriate to

select-- do our business and select the Chair and Vice Chair of the committee so that those people can
prepare for the following meeting. That's just my thought.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Muted, Vince.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just the same. It seems like if we can just at least get a Chair and Vice Chair
elected so that they can be working with Doug and whoever else so we're hitting the ground running in
February, that that makes sense.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Any feedback from our GM or staff on that? Is that manageable?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may, yes, it is manageable. And then also, assumptions are made
about who would be staffing the committee. But since they're joined, it's contingent upon the subject
matter, so I wanted to clarify that first chair where it was qualified that it would be the CFO. There could
be different individuals. So we will be working on that once we have a clear understanding who's the
Chair and Vice Chair. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. So let's go ahead and have that meeting next Tuesday. See if we can get
that noticed and set up. And I guess the first action they'll take is selecting their Chair and Vice Chair and
get that thing going. So any other discussion on that [ OK,any other discussion on that? Ok, thanks. Let's
talk about the Board retreat. So one of the things that's come up just recently is the date.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize-VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: But the process for selecting Chair and Vice Chair, who facilitates that?
VINCE BUZEK: General Counsel Snyder, can you help us with that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, you won't have anyone there to facilitate it. I think you could certainly have
Board staff open the meeting and take the roll call for the record. And then you would just entertain a
motion, so anyone could just make a motion right off the bat would be just fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So yeah, I just-VINCE BUZEK: A free for all. Basically, a free for all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I just wasn't sure if-VINCE BUZEK: No, I'm kidding, of course.
PEGGY CATLIN: --if the Chair of the Board would facilitate that and say--

TROY WHITMORE: That was my thought. We could have Vince do all of those too, since he's got nothing
else to do.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks.
[LAUGHTER]
PEGGY CATLIN: I just thought just to get the ball rolling, it would be a one-time deal.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Well, I could delegate too, couldn't I, Troy? [LAUGHS]
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, you could.
VINCE BUZEK: That's good. I mean, either way I'm happy to do that or have the committee itself just-TROY WHITMORE: We could have one of the Executive Committee members do it, because I would
assume that we would not be candidates to chair those committees. Maybe that's a bad assumption. But I
wouldn't mind running that election for our Chair and Vice Chair. I certainly won't be a candidate.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, if that's the case, then why don't you do that on Tuesday night?
TROY WHITMORE: So you didn't have to delegate.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, I was going to anyway, but thanks, Troy. [LAUGHS] No. That's good. OK. Does that
work, Ms. Snyder? Is that OK? Do you see any problems with that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Nope. No problem with that. That would be just fine.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Then let's plan on that happening.
TROY WHITMORE: Then we need to select our person for the other committee, which is next week as
well, to run that one, correct?
VINCE BUZEK: And that's Operations and Safety, correct?
TROY WHITMORE: Yep. Yep.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
TROY WHITMORE: Just a thought.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, and I'm happy to be there to do that. So why you put me down to get that ball
rolling? Is anything-- yeah, we'll elect the Chair and Vice Chair. And if they've got an agenda, then they
can take it over after the election. OK? Let's do that. OK. Anything else on these committees and the
election of Chairs and Vice Chair? GM Johnson, please?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. Just wanted to state recognizing the Performance
Committee. We had discussed about the statistical validation of the community value survey as well as
the customer excellence survey. Plante Moran is currently undertaking that, so it's likely that we will have
a performance committee in February to share that information.
So I just wanted to state for the record that it would seem most likely that at that same meeting that the
designation would be made for the Chair and the Vice Chair as well. So just wanted to ensure that that
was in the record. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. And I'd be happy to, again, start that off, because I will not be seeking to
be the Chair of the Performance Committee. So as Director Whitmore is going to do with Finance, I'll do
that with Performance as well. Great. Are we good to move on to the Board retreat? Yeah. OK.
So there was some late discussion about dates and considering the possibility of proposing new dates in
the first two weeks, first two Saturdays, I guess, of March. And those weren't considered I think because
Ms McManus, I believe, was not going to be present. But Director Guissinger, why don't you take it?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think Director Davidson very generously is moving his vacation plans to be there
on March 26. The only other person that's not there is Director Rivera-Malpiede, but I think she has a
problem with a lot of the dates, problem being that she'll be out of town and out of the country.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it. OK. Well, great. And Director Davidson, thank you so much for that, because I
didn't want to have to do that. Yeah. Perfect. So we have a date, don't we? It's March 26. Has that been
made public to the world?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think so.
VINCE BUZEK: It has now. OK. So it appears that the date that the vast majority of directors can do
would be Saturday, March 26, 2022. And I understand it's going to be at the same-- notice will come out,
but it's going to be at the same location we had the prior retreats over at the BCPA, whatever that room
is. So that's good.
So we want to talk about some of the topics that are going to be discussed. Some of the things that have
been recommended are governance and Board issues, the new meeting structure, communication, and
how we can become a stronger voice in regional issues.
Those are pretty broad topics, and I don't know that we want to drill down into most of them now or at
retreat, but I'll open it up to discussion among Executive Committee. OK. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think we did kind of a quick polling asking people to tell us the three main topics.
But I think that in the RFP, the vision is that the facilitator would do like they did before and call everybody
up and kind of get some specifics there. The RFP I think provides for the facilitator to participate in kind of
a practice session.

I don't think it mentions with the Executive Committee, but that seems to me like it would make a lot of
sense, just to make sure they're on track. And we can answer questions in advance. Something along
those lines I think would help narrow it down. I'm happy to talk content more specifically if others want to,
but I just wanted to add those pieces.
VINCE BUZEK: And GM Johnson, do you have some light to shed on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just wanted to qualify we're referencing it as a request for proposal. Actually, it's a
scope of work. I want to be mindful of the terms we use for procurement practices. That's all I wanted to
add. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And is that going to be part of the process? Will the facilitator contact the
Directors to get input from them ahead of the retreat? Does anybody know that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Isn't that in there, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, that's generally in all of the retreat-- the scope of work and all of the retreats.
VINCE BUZEK: Good. So maybe that's how we drill down is through that one-on-one stuff, but we can
also drill down more at the retreat.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well-VINCE BUZEK: Go ahead, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think like I said that it does provide, Barbara, doesn't it, for sort of a retreat
session. I don't think it does say Executive Committee, but I think that makes a lot of sense to sort of help
the facilitator pull it together and focus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it can be done that way, just taking into consideration that it would, again,
be a public meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Rest of the Executive Committee, would that be something you'd like to see happen?
Yes. Raise your hand yes. Yes. Maybe. Yes. OK. Four out of five. Sorry, Marjorie. So Lynn, if you could
state that a little more succinctly, do you think that the Board will have a special meeting with the-- or is it
just the one-on-one?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I think we worked on this before the holidays, and Barbara did a nice job of
starting off, and Debra did some great edits. But I think that that's part of the scope of work that they
would do these one-on-one conversations like they have in the past. And the only thought in terms of
bringing it back to the Executive Committee is to sort of-- this is a person who doesn't know us the way
we know us, and to just sort of make sure that the way they're focusing the issues is what it seems like
the Board has in mind.

VINCE BUZEK: OK. Sounds good. So perhaps the one-on-ones can happen, and the Executive
Committee meeting in March maybe will have that done, and we can just add that to the agenda to talk
about and have our facilitator present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that would be great. I mean, it's just the process of preparing a speaker or
facilitator, you want to do the preparation in advance. And that's all we have in mind there, I think.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Anybody have any objection to that? No. Good. OK. So we've identified these four
main topic areas. It sounds to me like what we're saying is the drilling down function will take place in the
one-on-one sessions that eventually will be formalized by the facilitator brought to the Executive
Committee.
And we can always go off script at the retreat, because that's what we do. Do we think we need to
discuss that any further here today? And Director Guissinger, you've still got your hand up. Do you want
to talk?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry, no.
VINCE BUZEK: No? OK. Does that sound OK? Anybody have any objection to that kind of a plan? Is that
sufficiently clear, Ms. McManus, Ms. Johnson?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I don't want to tell you to do something and not tell you what it is.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, just as a point of clarification, recognizing the procurement
process and what it entails for solicitation. I would just ask you all to be mindful as well, contingent upon
what does come out, if in fact you need staff preparation relative to preparing items that may aid in your
discussions, that would be advantageous for us to know in advance of that as we go forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. I think what I envision is that the facilitator conducts these one-on-ones and the
facilitator puts together a spreadsheet or a summary of the items, categorizing them however they want
to, and then brings that to the Executive Committee. So hopefully, not a lot of staff time and we can get
the facilitator to do some of that work.
OK. Anything else about the Board retreat? Do we need to talk about anything more? Does staff need
any more clarification? Do any of the members of the Executive Committee want to weigh in on anything
else right now? I don't see any hands, so I'm going to move on. So any other matters to come before the
Executive Committee that we want to discuss?
OK. No other matters. I guess I just want to say thanks to everybody. Thanks to this Executive Committee
for being here. Congratulations to everybody that's new. And the returning people, that's great. I want to
thank GM CEO Johnson, all your ongoing hard work. And I said some nice things to you today
[INAUDIBLE]. [LAUGHS] And thanks to Barbara, your staff, everybody else [INAUDIBLE]. Oh, I see

Director Tisdale's here. I'm sorry I didn't recognize you earlier, Director Tisdale. Thank you so much for
being present.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, [INAUDIBLE].
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. That said, I need a motion to adjourn our meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. And a second.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: For Dr. Whitmore. And any opposed? No? Great. Thanks for everybody attending. The
meeting is adjourned at 12:43 PM. Take care, everybody.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good work. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Bye.

