Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
REMOTE MEETING
April 21, 2020 at 5:30 PM
855-962-1128

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Cook
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Catlin

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting and Special Board Meeting Minutes of March 24, 2020

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent

A.

Addition of Information Section to Committee Agendas

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board adopt a ministerial change
to the format of committee meeting agendas to include a section for informational items
not intended for discussion during meetings unless expressly requested by one or more
Directors.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #2 – Strong and Ethical Leadership
Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach

XII.

Recommended Action
B.
Exercise First Contract Option Year for Triunity-Hill Joint Venture Contract for
FasTracks Construction Management Support Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to exercise the first option year of the Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for
Construction Management Support Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks,
extending the contract end date to July 13, 2021, with no increase in the contract not to-exceed amount. Funding for the remainder of this contract is included in the 2020
Adopted Budget in the specific projects where CMSC support would be utilized.
This action addresses the following General Manager’s Goals:
Task Goal #5: Increase Ridership.
C.
Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Boulder for
the Transfer of Used RTD Site Amenities
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager and CEO, or designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with
the City of Boulder, for the transfer of ownership of 3 bus shelters, 4 benches, 6 trash
receptacles, and 4 bike racks. Minor adjustments to these quantities may be made if the
project scope changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s goals:
Core Goal #5 - Effective Communications & Community Outreach
D.

Revisions to Code of Conduct

It is recommended that the Board adopt the attached revised Code of Conduct as amended
and authorize the GM/CEO to revise the code of conduct in the future but only in the event
of a declared state or national emergency. Any changes made by the GM/CEO must be
ratified by the Board within 14 days.

This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #2 - Strong & Ethical Leadership
Task Goal #4 – Strengthen Safety and Security

XIII.

Old Business
A.

N Line Update

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session
C.R.S. § 24-6-402(4)(c) – Matters required to be kept confidential by federal or state law
or rules and regulations. The local public body shall announce the specific citation of the
statutes or rules that are the basis for such confidentiality before holding the executive
session. Those citations are C.R.S. § 2-3-103(2); C.R.S. § 2- 3-103.7(1).

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

