1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
REMOTE MEETING
April 21, 2020 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Rivera-Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Rivera-Malpiede explained that the normal process would be to recite the pledge of
allegiance, but under the circumstances we will dispense with the pledge.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Bob Broom
Vince Buzek
Peggy Catlin
Shelley Cook

Director, District F
Director, District J
Director, District N
Director, District L

Present
Present
Present
Present

Claudia Folska
Lynn Guissinger
Shontel Lewis

Director, District E
Director, District O
Director, District B

Present
Present
Present

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

Ken Mihalik
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District G
Director, District C

Present
Present

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

Troy Whitmore

Director, District K

Present

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 15 Directors present at roll call.

Arrived

IV.

Retiree Awards
There were no retiree awards.

V.

Public Participation
1. Jennifer Nahulu
2. PJ Damico
3. Lisa Calderon
4. Sally Smith
5. Sean Hayes
6. John Thompson
7. Frank Sturgell
8. Tim Nelson
9. Rod Sturgeon
10. Angela Williams
11. Brian Loma

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Cook
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Catlin

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Presented by Committee Chair Catlin.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting and Special Board Meeting Minutes of March 24, 2020
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to approve
the Board Meeting and Special Board Meeting
minutes of March 24, 2020.
Director Buzek seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed by acclamation with 15 in
favor (Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska,
Guissinger, Lewis, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik,
Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, and
Williams) and 0 against.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Presented by Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Chair Rivera-Malpiede announced that she would
serve as committee chair on the Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct. She appointed
the following committee members from within the agency:
• Directors Lewis, Mihalik, Whitmore, and Williams
• General Manager Paul J. Ballard
• Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
• Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer and AGM of Safety, Security, & Asset
Management
• Marisela Sandoval, Associate General Counsel
• Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, and John McKay, Board
Office Administrator (appointed to provide meeting and technical resources)
In addition, Chair appointed the following external members:
• Evan Dreyer – Deputy Chief of Staff, Mayor Hancock’s Office
• Paul Pazen – Chief, Denver Police Department
• Britta Fisher –Chief Housing Officer, Denver Office of Housing Stability
• Gary Bryskiewicz – Chief Paramedic, Denver Health
• Aubrey Hasvold – Advocacy Program Director, Colorado Coalition for the Homeless
• Denise Maes – Public Policy Director, ACLU of Colorado
• Carleigh Sailon – Assistant Program Manager- Crisis Intervention Response Unit,
Mental Health Center of Denver
• Bob Dorshimer – CEO, Mile High Behavioral Health
• Kate Barton – Senior Vice President, Downtown Denver Partnership

X.

General Manager's Report
Presented by Interim General Manager Paul Ballard.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to approve
item A on the unanimous consent agenda.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor (Broom,
Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger, Lewis,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Rivera-Malpiede,
Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, and Williams) and 0
against.
A.

Addition of Information Section to Committee Agendas

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board adopt a ministerial change
to the format of committee meeting agendas to include a section for informational items
not intended for discussion during meetings unless expressly requested by one or more
Directors.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #2 – Strong and Ethical Leadership
Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach

XII.

Recommended Action
B.
Exercise First Contract Option Year for Triunity-Hill Joint Venture Contract for
FasTracks Construction Management Support Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to exercise the first option year of the Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for
Construction Management Support Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks,
extending the contract end date to July 13, 2021, with no increase in the contract notto-exceed amount. Funding for the remainder of this contract is included in the 2020
Adopted Budget in the specific projects where CMSC support would be utilized.
This action addresses the following General Manager’s Goals:
Task Goal #5: Increase Ridership.
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to authorize
the Interim General Manager to approve a
contract amendment to exercise the first
option year of the Triunity-Hill Joint Venture
for
Construction
Management
Support
Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks,
extending the contract end date to July 13,
2021, with no increase in the contract not-toexceed amount.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Broom,
Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger, Lewis,
Lubow,
Mihalik,
Rivera-Malpiede,
Tisdale,

Walker, Whitmore, and Williams) and 1 against
(Menten).
C.
Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Boulder for
the Transfer of Used RTD Site Amenities
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager and CEO, or designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with
the City of Boulder, for the transfer of ownership of 3 bus shelters, 4 benches, 6 trash
receptacles, and 4 bike racks. Minor adjustments to these quantities may be made if the
project scope changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s goals:
Core Goal #5 - Effective Communications & Community Outreach
Motion:

Director Guissinger made the motion to authorize
the Interim General Manager and CEO, or
designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
with the City of Boulder, for the transfer of
ownership of 3 bus shelters, 4 benches, 6 trash
receptacles, and 4 bike racks.
Minor
adjustments to these quantities may be made if
the project scope changes.
Director Cook seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Broom,
Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale,
Walker, Whitmore, and Williams) and 1 against
(Lewis).
D.

Revisions to Code of Conduct

It is recommended that the Board adopt the attached revised Code of Conduct as amended
and authorize the GM/CEO to revise the code of conduct in the future but only in the event
of a declared state or national emergency. Any changes made by the GM/CEO must be
ratified by the Board within 14 days.

This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #2 - Strong & Ethical Leadership
Task Goal #4 – Strengthen Safety and Security
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to adopt the
revised Code of Conduct as amended and
authorize the GM/CEO to revise the code of
conduct in the future but only in the event of a
declared state or national emergency.
Director Buzek seconded the motion.

Motion to
Postpone:

Director Lewis made a motion to postpone the
vote to July 14, 2020.
Director Lubow seconded

Vote on
The Motion
to Postpone: The motion failed with 5 in favor (Folska, Lewis,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik) and 10 against (Broom,
Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Guissinger, RiveraMalpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, and
Williams).
Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the motion FAILED.
Vote on the
Main Motion: The motion passed with 10 in favor (Broom,
Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Guissinger, RiveraMalpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, and
Williams) and 5 against (Folska, Lewis, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik).
Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the main motion PASSED.

XIII.

Old Business
Directors Menten, Tisdale, Catlin, Williams, and Lewis spoke.

XIV. New Business
There was no new business.

XV.

Executive Session
C.R.S. § 24-6-402(4)(c) – Matters required to be kept confidential by federal or state law
or rules and regulations. The local public body shall announce the specific citation of the
statutes or rules that are the basis for such confidentiality before holding the executive
session. Those citations are C.R.S. § 2-3-103(2); C.R.S. § 2- 3-103.7(1).
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to move into
Executive Session.
Director Whitmore seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor (Broom,
Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger, Lewis,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Rivera-Malpiede,
Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, and Williams) and 0
against.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Rivera-Malpiede adjourned the meeting at 8:11 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

