April 21, 2020
RTD Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everybody I will now call back Tuesday, April 21
RTD Board meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:33 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and to set your ringers to
silent.
Please note, that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website. You can visit
RTD-Denver.com and scroll to the bottom of that page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the public participation portion
of tonight's agenda, please press star 3 now. You will be placed into a queue, and I will call on you
at the appropriate time. Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would
like to be acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please announce your
name and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak. We have a lot of people on the phone
line with us tonight, and speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the
proceedings.
Please note, that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on in the
evening, I will call on each Director in turn. So please know that your time to speak will come.
And if possible, please hold your comments until that time. I will disperse with the Pledge of
Allegiance for the time being. And with that, I'd like to call Ms. McManus to do the roll call of the
board please. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do you want to do roll call?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin? Can you hear me? Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis? Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik? Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm going back to Director Lewis and Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 13 present, 2 absent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McManus. At RTD, safety is our core value, and
I'd like to begin this meeting with the short safety briefing. Even though we've all heard and heeded
this health advice time and again, since the beginning of COVID-19 pandemic, this information
bears repeating if we are to stay vigilant in the weeks and months to come. We aren't out of the
woods just yet.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Cover your cough or sneeze
with a tissue, and then throw the tissue into the trash. If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze
into the upper sleeve or elbow, not your hands.
Stay home when you're feeling sick. Self-monitor for flu-like symptoms, and consult with your
doctor's office via a phone as necessary. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces both at
work and at home. When soap and water aren't available, use hand sanitizer with a concentration
of at least 60% alcohol.
Washing your hands is still one of the most effective ways to prevent the spread of the virus. Be
sure to lather each and every part of your hand and scrubs or at least 20 seconds, or 30 is better.
And lastly, you can continue to flatten the curve by limiting close exposure to those outside of
your household to the greatest extent possible.
I'll mention this again. If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the
public participation portion of tonight's agenda, please press star 3 now, and you will be into the
queue, and I will call on you at the appropriate time. Our next agenda item is retiree awards, and
this evening, there are no retirees for the month of April.
That takes us now to our public participation. This is our public participation period, which is open
to anyone who wants to speak. As is our custom, we will allow any of our elected officials present
to speak first so they can get back to their own meetings and intend to business. If you have
indicated that you'd like to speak to the Board by dialing star 3 on your phone, I will call your
name in the order in which you signed in.
Each speaker will be allowed three minutes. Bear in mind, that by participating in this process,
you are being audio recorded. So if you do not wish to be audio recorded, then your comments
will have to be submitted in writing, and you will not have the opportunity to speak this evening.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email those materials
to the Board Office at the following email address-- Board.Office@RTD-Denver.com. For anyone
just joining the call, if you'd like to speak to the Board, you can press star 3 on your phone now,
and you will be placed into a queue. When it's your turn to speak, I will call you by name. And our

first speaker is-- and if you would please state your name-- I have Jennifer Nahulu. Go ahead,
Jennifer.
JENNIFER NAHULU: Hi. My question is, how does RTD plan on making right what happened
with the assault of Raverro Stinnett by your security?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Jennifer. I have PC de Monaco.
TJ D'AMICO: Yes. Can you hear me? Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
TJ D'AMICO: Great. My name is actually TJ D'amico, D-A-M-I-C-O. And Jennifer's question, I
was with Raverro Stinnett the night he was assaulted and almost brutally beaten within an inch of
his life, not by one of your security officers, but of a gang of AlliedUniversal thugs.
The attack was premeditated. You know this. It was highly organized, and it was planned out in
advance.
Had he died, his death would have been highly more racist and horrible than any of the Trayvon
Martins and Michael Browns. And if you don't know this, look and see what happened. This is
not-- these are not people you want to have more unregulated control. These are young men who
have axes to grind, that are underpaid.
And what happened to Raverro, by the way, is not isolated. I will be submitting serial patterns of
videos that I've taken of one of your security officers Christmas night at 1:00 AM removing a
disabled handicapped person from the light rail on my way to the airport. It was freezing out, and
I witnessed this. And so you'll have that in your hands tomorrow.
I personally have been followed with my daughters by two or three of the private security guards.
And so the idea that you're going to give these thugs more discretion is an abomination and should
be-- you should be ashamed of yourselves. At the time of Raverro's assault, I was asked by Chief
Saunders, who is second to Chief White, why he didn't know about this incident. And he said that
RTD is policed by RTD, which basically translates to me that you have an ungoverned private
militia of young, predominantly men, who have an ax to grind, who, by the way, are carrying lethal
weapons.
And so I don't understand how this has not exploded within the community in Denver. But I want
you to know this. I'm in Atlanta now, and I ride the Marta here often. I never ever have to see a
private security person intimidating anyone.
And so Denver, I think, is really in a crossroads, where you all need to get your act together.
Because you have created a racist, hierarchical public transit system that is designed to make poor
people of color afraid for their lives. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Lisa Calderon?

LISA CALDERON: Thank you, Chairwoman Angie Malpiede. I am Lisa Calderon, the Chief of
Staff for Councilwoman Candi CdeBaca in District 9. We are opposed to the code of conduct rule
change, and I am reading her letter into the record.
So dear RTD Board of Directors, you all should have gotten a letter signed by over 50
organizations and individuals attesting to this. Two years ago on April 20, 2018, Raverro Stinnett,
a local Denver artist, was viciously beaten by AlliedUniversal security guards in the RTD Union
Station terminal, while he waited after midnight to catch a train home. His injuries were so severe
that he may never fully recover or regain his artistic ability.
Although the guards were convicted of minor criminal charges for nearly killing Mr. Stinnett in
an unprovoked attack, there has yet to be accountability for AlliedUniversal Security, a billion
dollar for-profit corporation that continues to enjoy a $58 million contract with the Regional
Transportation District courtesy of Colorado taxpayers despite a history of excessive force cases
nationally. Although the criminal case has been resolved, justice will not be served until Mr.
Stinnett's pending civil case is resolved, a case that has dragged on for two years despite clear
wrongdoing. Additionally, while the civil case is pending, we've learned that RTD is set to pass
an unprecedented restrictive rule that will make it easier for security officers to kick people out of
RTD train and bus stations and more likely that these types of brutal incidents will occur.
In fact, we see no evidence that this restrictive rule will be applied equally or fairly to all patrons,
since it appears to be driven by fears and stereotypes. Instead, we believe the rule, when applied
to certain populations, will create conditions similar to those that led to the beating of Mr. Stinnett,
namely, unilateral authority to use force to remove anyone who Allies' guards deem undesirable
based on physical characteristics. This form of racial and poverty profiling must not be sanctioned.
Discriminatory profiling in public transit stations is as unconscionable today as it was 60 years ago
when the Freedom Riders risked their lives to desegregate public bus terminals.
It shocks our collective conscience that not only has RTD failed to resolve Mr. Stinnett's case after
he nearly lost his life in an RTD Union Station bathroom in the most degrading and dehumanizing
way, but that the RTD Board is set to pass an even more restrictive rule without one mention of
the violation of a black man's civil rights. It is truly baffling that rather than placing more
safeguards in place to protect against abuses, the RTD Board is doubling down by giving even
more power to a corporation with a well-documented pattern and history of brutality against
homeless people, workers' rights violations, religious bias, and sexual harassment, racism, and
retaliation. RTD Directors are elected to act in the best interest, and we are urging you to vote
against this rule. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you so much. I have Sally Smith. Sally's gone.
Shawn Hayes?
SHAWN HAYES: Hello. My name is Shawn Hayes. I can't speak for my organization, but I have
worked in homelessness for the last 17 years. And I just want to echo all of the comments that
have been made.

In regards to the code of conduct being voted on tonight, I just see it as a way to regulate spaces
and filter out people that those with money and funding that don't want them to be there can, like
Dr. Calderon said, stick their noses up at and say, I'm not comfortable with that person, so get them
out of my vision. And rather than actually make sweeping systemic changes, we just get them out
of our view. And that's what we've been doing with the sweeps. That's what we've been doing for
years, and it's never worked.
And one thing that we have a chance to do with the tragedy of this virus is make changes and make
things different than they used to be. We had this whole campaign to do better, or whatever it was
that that [AUDIO OUT] that opposed the camping ban put together to oppose it, with the Denver
businesses. And nothing ever came from it, of course, because they only wanted to stop it from
happening, because they only cared about making the streets look pretty and not actually about
helping people. But we have a chance to help people now and to do things right from the beginning,
and really structure things so that we can care about each other, and help each other, and we should
do that.
And this is not the right way to do that. And so I just implore all of you to please not vote for this,
and to do better, to actually do better and not the way that group painted it. Because they did not
mean that in any way, shape, or form. So that's all I have to say about that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Shawn. Next, I have John Thompson.
JOHN THOMPSON: Hello Chair, and RTD Board of Directors, and senior leadership team and
staff. It's John Thompson, former Chief Executive, Project Director of Denver Transit Partners. I
wanted you to know that I was thinking of you. I think of you all the time, and especially at this
very extraordinary time we're living through at the moment.
I'm calling you now from England just after-- between midnight and 1:00 AM. I hope you're all
well. I hope your families are all well, and your friends, and that we get through this safely. And
then as has already been indicated, it's an opportunity to reshape the world after this rather than go
back to just exactly the same as what was before.
And I'm sure RTD could play a significant role in that in the region. So I just wanted to let you
know that I was thinking of you. Thankfully, my family have avoided the pandemic so far, from a
95-year-old mother down to grandchildren. And I wish you all the very best for surviving this and
coming out of it stronger. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Thompson. I have next Frank Sturgell.
FRANK STURGELL: Yeah. Hi, my name is Lee Sturgell and I would like to tell the Board to vote
no on this code of conduct. There is no excuse for it. You have very poorly trained Allied security.
You have an example of Raverro Stinnett being beaten to almost the end of his life, and yet you
want more authoritarianism. You have the example of Abade Irizarry, who was simply, with a
bullhorn, stating that he wants free speech. Your poorly trained guards arrested him, and now you
have a lawsuit against you for that.

And if lawsuits aren't training you to stop doing what you're doing, of more authoritarianism, what
is going to? I'm serious. We're just going to have to pile lawsuits onto you.
Right, Peggy Catlin? You're getting one. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next, I have Tim Nelson. Mr. Nelson?
TIM NELSON: Hi. I'm calling in regards to the use of mandating for RTD drivers. Specifically,
how often has that been used during the current pandemic crisis?
What are the future intentions regarding this tool to force drivers to work, or to get them to work
after working overtime, and sometimes against your wishes? And then the use of hazard pay,
especially during the COVID-19 crisis. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next, I have Tim Nelson. Or no, I mean-- hello,
Mr. Nelson? You're on.
TIM NELSON: Yes, Yes. I don't know what happened with the Stinnett case and so forth. If the
guards overstepped their authority, they should be punished, and if need be, criminal charges filed.
But I will say, I'm a driver, and I look at this kind of from a different perspective. Especially with
the fares being taken away, you get a lot of homeless people, transients, that frankly-- and I'm just
going to cut to the chase-- they use the bus as a shelter. There's been several instances of drivers
being verbally abused, physically assaulted.
Union Station, for several months now, hasn't really been a safe place to go to-- drug paraphernalia
laying around, people urinating, defecating at the station, on buses. It's not a safe environment,
especially now with this pandemic going on, for the drivers or passengers that have legitimate
reasons for going-- for using the bus to go to work, or whatever. And especially now that we're
limited to, I believe, 15 passengers on the buses.
So I'm in favor of this, because, yeah, homelessness is a societal problem. It's not just here in
Denver. It's nationwide.
But the onus of this problem should not be put on the bus drivers, who risk their lives and safety
every day going to work dealing on the front lines with this, and other passengers, who often bring
their kids. And having to deal with the drunk or someone in the back of the bus urinating, or
defecating, or acting out of their minds-- I'm not saying that this is all homeless people. It's not,
but it happens enough where it's a concern.
And I'm sure, if you polled the drivers, the operators, they're not judging people on their
appearance. They're judging people on their actions. And a lot of the homeless, a lot of these people
have mental problems. It's not in our purview as operators to solve that problem.

That's why there's people in government. That's what they get paid for. That's why we elect
officials to deal with the problems. But it shouldn't be just put on the back of the bus drivers, the
transit workers.
And yeah, if you've got some overzealous guards, just like you do in other facets of society, yeah,
they should be dealt with-- fired, terminated, criminally prosecuted. But you come up with a couple
of anecdotes where, OK, Mr. Stinnett-- which is very important for him-- but I don't think that's
the norm. I go by these stations every day on my routes. Most of the guards that I see are
professional. They're not out harassing people, and that's what I've seen, and I've been driving for
over two years.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Sturgell. Thank you for your call.
TIM NELSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next, we have Angela Williams.
ANGELA WILLIAMS: Hi. I'm going to ride on the back of the last person. Yeah, I'm a RTD bus
operator, and I say, we need that code of conduct. It should have gone into place years ago.
It's dangerous out there for us to be down there. It's dangerous for every passenger. It's filthy. It's
chaos in the station.
The guards, if they overreacted, I don't think they did it innocently. I think they were provoked,
because you see it every day. And these guys have patience instilled. So that's one of my issues.
We need that code of conduct. It needs to be safe down there.
And then my second one is, right now, where are the PPEs for us operators? I was given a mask
two weeks ago that's supposed to be good for two weeks. My two weeks is up. Where is my
replacement mask?
Hazard pay-- we deserve hazard pay to be out there right now. Half of the workforce is at home
supposedly working from home. Well, we are out there putting our lives and our family's lives at
risk.
And thank you, Shontel, for standing up for us. I sure wish the rest of the Board would get some
backbone and basically say, hey, we're out there. What are we doing to protect them? I called
dispatch today, because I had an unruly passenger. It took 20 minutes for them to answer me.
My safety is imperative. There are more homeless people there, and they don't follow rules. Candi
CdeBaca, she's on the Denver City Council.
She should not be putting this on RTD for safety. She needs to figure out some things on her Board
when they have their council meeting. And I guess that's all I have to say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Angela. And last, we have Brian Loma.

BRIAN LOMA: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. How are we doing today? Can you hear
me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can. Thank you, sir.
BRIAN LOMA: So I want to start off by indicating a correction, that the code of conduct is not
something new.
We believe-- we have a gentlemen, named Martin Dano, was involved in the original establishment
of the code of conduct for RTD not that many years ago. And I want to bring up the name Eric
Brandt at this time. The last time that a major catastrophic change to the code of conduct came to
the public's attention, it was that you required shoes to be worn on the feet of passengers. Even the
health department doesn't have codes requiring shoes to be on the feet of people eating at
restaurants.
But the results of that change in the code of conduct was that somebody immediately, not that
shortly long after it was established, was denied riding the bus, because they were beat up, and
their shoes were stolen. And they didn't have shoes on, and they had to walk miles and miles home.
And while Eric Brandt might not be calling in tonight to talk about the changes to the code of
conduct, I think that you might actually be getting more phone calls as this meeting goes on, or
there might be some people trying to queue in.
Because I know that the actual defendant, or I should say you guys are the defendant, in a case
regarding a bullhorn, which line item 19 specifically changes. And why are you naming a bullhorn
in your agenda in the changes of the code of conduct if it weren't for a pending lawsuit regarding
somebody using their constitutionally protected free speech at Union Station with a bullhorn,
having been arrested from it, and having their case dismissed? I'm looking at line item, specifically,
35, remaining at a facility after being asked to leave for a violation of code or other applicable
rules.
So a security guard who is a private contractor to RTD could be arresting somebody who's
inebriated or intoxicated. And a private or public journalist could be videotaping, taking
photography from a safe distance of this incident. And all this private security guard has to do is
say leave, and now that person is arrestable, because that's the violation of the code, that you have
to leave because you've been asked to leave. This is too vague, and this is going to definitely open
up the city and county, I'm sorry, that RTD Board here to more lawsuits for violating civil rights.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Loma. Thank you for your input. With no other
callers in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this time.
Committee reports-- the committee minutes were included in your Board packet. Are there any
corrections from the directors? Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and
will become a part of the permanent record.

Next is the GM executive search and the GM oversight and performance management update.
Committee Chair Catlin, if you would, at this time, please share with us your comments regarding
the GM executive search GM oversight and performance management committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. The committee is scheduled to meet this coming
Thursday. We have a notice to proceed with our selected executive search being firm, and we are
going to be kicking off that effort this coming Thursday. So that's all I have to report. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Catlin. Approval of the board
minutes as of March 24, 2020. May I please have a motion to approve the minutes from the regular
board meeting of March 24, 2020?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. May I have a motion to approve the minutes from the
regular board meeting? I heard Director Williams as the movement, and Director Buzek is the
second. Unless there is discussion, we will proceed with the voice vote.
Are there any no votes on the approval of the Board meeting minutes? Hearing none, that motion
is adopted, and the minutes are approved. It's time for the chairs' report.
I would like to say a couple of things before I turn it over to Mr. Ballard for the general manager
report. Let me begin by saying that after the meeting last week, and listening to everybody speak
about all of the issues that have been so difficult to deal with, we're in a very, very difficult time,
I think, and dealing with issues that are really impacting, not just RTD, but our entire community,
and actually globally. But as we govern as an RTD Board of Directors, I would like to suggest the
following things that we implement.
The first one is perhaps I would like to see use of, a fuller use, of Robert's Rules, which is really
trying to make sure that we are managing conflicts and divergent views, and ensuring that all
voices have an opportunity to be heard while enabling our meetings to stay within a reasonable
parameter of time and flow. The second thing is I'd like to have consideration by the committee
chairs and their vice chairs about whether an item coming forward is ready for action. I think if
not, I would ask you to consider scheduling for a later date to give time to work through issues and
thinking explicit that one option that they may have when a meeting is getting bogged down is that
we really take it back and look at it. So I'll be talking to all of the chairs and vice chairs about how
we move forward in terms of bringing things to the Board.
In terms of the committee structure, one of the things I'd like to try is to use an ad hoc committee.
We are currently a committee of the whole, which is 15 board members. But I think that as we're
dealing with issues that become really more gray or difficult, that perhaps we should use an ad hoc
committee to really take a look and do a deep dive before we bring it through to the Board for
consideration. I would also like to suggest that in the longer term, which may be next year, that
perhaps we might take a look at restructuring our committees to the less of the whole. It is an issue

that has been brought up before by Second Vice Chair Cook, as well as others, and that would be
to enable a more in-depth discussion, and really taking a look at what's happening before it comes
to the total Board.
And then last, I would like to really invite the views of outside key stakeholders to work with us
on issues of concern and just issues we really feel we need to delve into. I'd like to see the
involvement of ad hoc committees to include board members, constituents, legislators, sister
agencies, policymakers, letters to the editor. I think if we broaden our ability to work with our
community and our key stakeholders as we're looking at legislation, then it gives us a completely
different broad perspective as we move forward. So I wanted to start with that.
Secondarily, I would like to make a statement before I go on to my ad hoc committee. I want it to
be clear that the civil rights lawsuit against RTD and the AlliedUniversal Security should have
little or no impact on your decision about the code of conduct. There is a lot of misinformation and
wrong assumptions related to this lawsuit and the circumstances revolving around the incident that
happened two years ago. There is nothing in the code as adopted by the Board in 2016-- this is not
a new code that we are looking at, this is one that was adopted by the Board in 2016-- or as revised
that would give license to the behavior of the AlliedUniversal employees who assaulted the
plaintiff.
The criminal behavior by the guards does not align with RTD's core values or doesn't reflect on
the attitude, mission, policies, or practices of RTD. That lawsuit is about individuals' behavior.
And even though processes and standards were in place, we can't prevent people from behaving
badly.
In applying the code of conduct, as with anything, RTD expects Allied to properly train and
supervise its officers to meet RTD's high standards of public safety. With that in mind, I would
like to say that RTD does have an obligation to ensure the safety, cleanliness, and accessibility of
our transit system. To this end, the agency has established a board-approved code of conduct to
regulate behavior on RTD vehicles, facilities, and properties.
The RTD Board will be considering revisions to the code of conduct later this evening, and those
revisions were brought by staff largely to address safety concerns and complications that have
been exasperated by the COVID-19 public health crisis. And even in the depths of this crisis, RTD
is still experiencing 125,000 boardings daily, and many of those are continuing to use the system
are either transit-dependent riders, essential employees on the front line of the fight against this
deadly virus, or both. Safety is paramount for this agency, and we owe it to our riders, to our staff,
and to our community to do all we can, now and in the future, to make sure our policies are working
as intended to enhance safety.
I am, therefore, announcing the formation of an ad hoc committee that is being created for the
purpose of reviewing the impact of the revisions to the RTD code of conduct to ensure that the
code continues to work towards preserving the safety, cleanliness, and accessibility of RTD system
in a manner that is fair and respectful of our patrons and addresses the current public safety needs
of employees, riders, and individuals from vulnerable populations using the system during this
COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to Directors and RTD staff, we will be working collaboratively

and inclusively with key stakeholders from the community to leverage our collective knowledge,
expertise, and resources.
I will serve as the committee chair, and other members are as follows-- Director Lewis, Director
Mihalik, Director Williams, and Director Whitmore, General Manager Paul Ballard, Assistant
General Managers Michael Ford and Michael Meader, Assistant General Counsel Marcella
Sandoval, Barbara McManus, Board Office Executive Manager, and John McKay Board Office
Administrator, who will provide meeting and technical support, and representatives from the
following organizations-- Mayor Hancock's Office, Evan Dreyer, Denver Police Department
Chief, Paul Pazen, Denver Department of Housing Stability, Britta Fisher, Denver Health
Paramedics Emergency Response, Chief Gary, Colorado Coalition for the Homeless, Audrey
Hasvold, ACLU, Denise Maes, Mental Health Center of Denver Clinical Services, Carleigh Sailon,
Mile High Behavioral Health, appointee not yet confirmed, but we have someone, and the
Downtown Denver Partnership, not yet confirmed, but we will have someone at the table.
The committee will report its findings within three months after convening its first meeting and
will convey those findings, at a minimum, to the RTD Board of Directors, the Citizens Advisory
Committee, the Amalgamated Transit Union 1001, the Access-A-Ride Paratransit Advisory
Committee, and the Advisory Committee for Persons with Disabilities. With that, I'll turn it over
to General Manager Ballard. Would you please share with us your report, sir?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, thank you very much, Madam Chair. This is Paul Ballard, General
Manager and COO. And thank you very much for that report, and for the plan that you have-- the
plans that you have laid out. I'm real excited about that.
Let me start with a coronavirus update and what we're doing. As the board members know, this
past Sunday we did a service change, and reduced service by approximately 40%. It went well.
We have a few kinks that we've ironed out Sunday and Monday. Today, things really went rather
smoothly.
And as you know, one of the basic philosophies of making that change is that we're now taking
the extra board, or the extra bus operators, and the extra buses. And we're using those to help with
the social distancing, so that they are, in fact, on the street, and they're responding when drivers
call to say that they have, or are approaching, the 15 passenger load factor on their buses. So that's
going well.
We have ended the mandating of overtime in both the bus and the rail division. And in the bus
division, refresher training for bus operators not scheduled to provide this shadow service on the
regular routes. We'll be starting this refresher training that we've been trying to get to for a very
long time, and we now have the opportunity.
From an external perspective, the multiple services along Colfax Avenue continue to be the
heaviest use of our bus services, and has the most backup buses placed strategically throughout
the route to help support the social distancing efforts. We are encouraging all of our passengers to
wear masks for their protection, for the protection of our employees. We're providing constant
communications to the public in the press releases and media releases that we do. And by the end

of the week, we will have signs at the entrance to all buses and trains asking people to please wear
masks when they are riding public transportation services.
And to talk about masks specifically, we have been able to acquire more and more masks. And I
would like to specifically thank Director Menten and her effort for making masks and delivering
them to our front line employees. That is greatly appreciated by our staff.
We are now actually manufacturing some in-house. Our upholstery shop has come up with a mask,
and they've started to manufacture them. On the procurement front, just today alone we received
a shipment of 1,560 cloth masks. We also received 2,000 of the KN95 masks.
So the supply is starting to develop, and we are getting them out to our front line employees. And
we believe that our supply will continue to grow, and we'll be able to get them out. So we're not
just doing coronavirus and coronavirus-related activities. We're continuing to make progress in a
number of fronts.
First of all, I'd like to talk about the North Line, commuter rail line. We are working towards a fall,
late summer, startup. And we are in very good shape for doing that.
The fall bus service change is slated for September 20. We envision the startup of the North Line
to be a lower key event than we've done in the past. And some of the concepts that we're kicking
around are seven days of free service on the line instead of the one day free service that we do
system-wide.
We'd like to focus it on marketing the N Line and giving people really a whole week to come out
and give it a try so that we don't overcrowd the trains. At the end of that seven-day period, we
would propose to start the six-month trial fare program that the Board approved some time ago.
We'll be looking at the operating characteristics of that line. And as it stands today, everything
looks really good.
The full final acceptance of the rail right of way on or about May 4 is on schedule. Jenifer RossAmato, are Acting General Counsel, has done a superb job in leading our teams in negotiating the
operating agreements with the Denver transit partners. The most challenging of those three
agreements was signed last week. We have two more minor agreements that are on their way to
being wrapped up.
Michael Ford is continuing to work with the ATU. There are still some minor agreements that need
to be worked out as far as the labor aspect on commuter rail. So life goes on in many areas-- local,
state, and federal relationships. We continue to develop and expand those.
On the local basis, Mike Meader continues to lead our coronavirus issues. He continues to
participate with local governments, with Mayor Hancock's task force. I continue to have regular
meetings by phone with Mayor Hancock's staff on multiple issues.
From the state perspective, I had a very productive conference call with Senator Faith Winter and
Representative Matt Gray last week. They chair the transportation committees in their respective

legislative houses. I want to thank the Board Member Lynn Guissinger for facilitating this
conversation, which went on for about an hour. It was very positive.
We've also submitted two letters to the Governor over the last 10 days. Both of these were
encouraged by the Board. My understanding is they have been well-received, and we continue to
have-- we're working with the state auditors. We had a telephone conference with them, and it was
very helpful to us to understand what it is they are looking for. And we hope that we have conveyed
some information to them about the situations we're dealing with.
On the federal level, the CARES Act was just wonderful. That's going to provide financial
resources to help us get through the serious financial shortfalls that we are experiencing and will
continue to experience for some time. There are so many people who helped in supporting the
CARES Act and getting that adopted by Congress we really appreciate.
We had local and state officials, our lobbyists in DC, American Public Transportation Association,
and many members of our Board who weighed in on this issue to help get that legislation passed.
We continue to have great support from the Federal Transit Administration. We continue to have
ongoing discussions with municipal officials, Westminster and Aurora, in particular. We continue
to work with DRCOG, the Chamber of Commerce, the Downtown Denver Partnership, Denver
International Airport, and the Denver Downtown Partnership.
So Madam Chair, that's a snapshot of some of the things that are going on. We're dealing with the
critical issues that present themselves day-to-day, but we're also continuing the good work and the
ongoing business of the RTD. And the Board can be comfortable in knowing that the staff is
working very hard in keeping all these other issues going forward. That concludes my report,
Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. This evening, we have one item on the
unanimous consent agenda. If anyone has a change to or questions on this item, please feel free to
advise the Chair at this time. And we will, of course, be happy to pull the item from the unanimous
consent agenda for consideration under the recommended action.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes, go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just got a message from John saying that you all didn't count me as signed
in. And I just wanted to let you know that I was on the line.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director. Ms. McManus, will you put Director Lewis
attending?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. And Director Mihalik is now on as well for the record.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Thank you. So we now have all 15 board members on the
line. Thank you, Director Lewis. So hearing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent
agenda?
BOB BROOM: I move approval, Bob Broom.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have Director-- I heard Guissinger. [LAUGHS] Sorry. So I have
Director Broom is the movement, and Director Guissinger is the second. Is there any discussion?
Hearing none-SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a-- this Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a general comment. And I said this the last meeting. I just want to
say it again.
That I'm just concerned about this process. I'm willing to give it a try, but I just am concerned that
it does not yield the transparency that we should be doing as an agency at this time. And I know
that many directors read their packets, and I appreciate each one of you for doing that beforehand.
And it's just a gentle reminder that these meetings are not only for us, but for the general public.
And so this is an opportunity for us to share that information with the general public. That
concludes my comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Director Lewis. With that in mind, hearing
none-- is there any no vote on the unanimous consent? Hearing none, that motion passes, and the
unanimous consent is adopted.
This evening, we also have three recommended actions. They are listed as item 12 and actions B
through D on your agendas. The first one is the exercise first contract option year for Triunity/Hill
joint venture contract for FasTracks construction management support consultant services. Do we
have a motion?
JUDY LUBOW: So moved, Judy Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: A second?

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is there any discussion on this motion? I hear none.
So I will now call on the directors in turn, starting-- well, let's do this. Are there any-- there were
no nos. Is there any discussion at all by any director on this?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: What did you mean there were no nos?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I didn't hear no nos. I apologize if I didn't hear you. We haven't
voted yet.
NATALIE MENTEN: I realize that. So that's why I wondered if-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. [LAUGHS] Yes. I'm about to call for the vote, so we'll know
soon.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. All right, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hearing nothing, I will now call for the vote, and we'll proceed in
alphabetical order. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And myself, Chair, yes. With it, there were 14 ayes and 1 no. And
that motion passes.
The second recommended action is the authorization for an intergovernmental agreement, an IGA,
with the city of Boulder for the transfer of used RTD site amenities. Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger, so moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I have a movement of Director Guissinger, and a
second of Director Cook. Is there any discussion on this motion?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I know this is the transfer of ownership for the shelters,
the benches, the trash receptacles, and the floor by grass. But last time we spoke about this issue,
I was concerned about the process, and how the general public would be able to identify how they
might participate in this way. Particularly, I think about our neighborhoods in Montbello.
And I've received a number of calls from constituents asking about bus shelters and things of that
nature. And so one of the asks that I have of the RTD Board, but also of staff, is if we could identify
a process that makes this and these resources accessible to everyone and not just folks who know
how to navigate different systems. That concludes my comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Is there any other discussion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would just-- this is Lynn Guissinger. I would just say, I think that's a great
idea.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. If there's no other discussion, I will now call for the
vote. And I will, again, proceed in alphabetical order. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chair is yes. So there are 14 ayes and 1 no. The motion
passes, and the no vote is Director Lewis.
Our last recommended action is the revisions to the code of conduct. Do we have a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Director Tisdale moves.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Tisdale. Second?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I got Buzek first. Sorry, Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: That's OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have Director Tisdale as the movement, and Director Buzek as
the second. Is there any discussion?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, this is Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I wanted to talk about the changes to the code of conduct. I originally in the
committee voted yes to this, and I have decided, after great thought, and worry, and turmoil, to
change my vote, even though I'm very understanding of the needs to protect our drivers, and to
protect our public, and all of our employees, and to create greater safety. Nonetheless, these are
constitutional issues, and I believe that the revisions will make it easier to restrict usage of our
facilities.
And I personally would prefer that the ad hoc committee, which I love-- I love the idea of this
committee-- would be able to do its work first and make recommendations about the code instead
of just telling us after the fact if they like these ideas. I think it's too precipitous. And so I'm going
to be voting no, but I do very much understand why people are doing this.
And I also just wanted to add that I'm sorry what happened to that person who was assaulted in
our facilities. It's very distressing. And it would be my hope that we did-- we have done a review
of our contractor to make sure that this doesn't happen again and to see if there is a possible history
of this type of thing in the past.
And I personally am concerned about the respondent, about the person who was injured. And I
don't know if this is possible, but I would be interested if RTD-- if there's anything that we could
do to be of assistance to this person, understanding that there's a legal action, and that complicates
things. But I did want to talk about it. Anyway, that's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Anyone else?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Two questions. One, we had spoken offline earlier, and I may have missed
this when you announced the item. But we had discussed the idea of it coming back. There's a-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: --concern I have about something being done in the midst of a pandemic, a
state of emergency, and not having a chance, perhaps, to consider the ramifications like this,
especially if we have a task force looking at it. Did you limit that to three months or require it to
come back to us in three months?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do have on here a movement of establishing the ad hoc
committee and then coming back in July. We had talked about a three-month time period to be
able to have the ad hoc committee review, make recommendations, work with us to make sure that
we hear the gist of what their suggestions might be to the Board. But it looks like I would bring it
back sometime in July, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So what you're saying, even though we're not making it a part of the motion,
is your word is that we'll put it back on the agenda. And of course, that takes the Executive
Committee setting that or any number-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct. Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: --or any board members. That's the first thing. I'm relying on that.
The second thing is a question for Mike Meader. Is he available? Is he in our meeting tonight?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, let me look and see if he's on here. I believe-MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah, I'm on, Chair. This is Mike Meader.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Meader, it is true, isn't it, that the bulk of the TSOs who staff our security
are not post certified, not themselves police officers? So maybe haven't gone through the training,
the academy, et cetera. What kinds of guidelines, or parameters for operating, or supervision, or
are you moving our police officers into the DUS facility? I just need a little bit more information
about how we're guarding against the kinds of circumstances that people have raised a concern
about.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer at RTD.
[COUGH] Excuse me.
I can't speak to exactly the number of folks that are post certified, or are not, or were post certified
in the security. I could certainly find that that answer for you. We do also have transit police as
well as contracted off-duty Denver police who work and are assigned to the Denver Union Station
terminals. So we do have police present, law enforcement present, there.
The TSOs, our Transit Security Officers, they do go through some basic training. They have an
academy that they go through that lasts a number of weeks. And during that time, they do get about
a week's worth of deescalation/use of force training, what the law is around that.
They do get civil rights training. They also get mental health, or starting to get-- many of them
have already had it-- mental health training. So what they call Mental Health First Aid, recognizing
situations that may involve people with some mental illness in addition to the field training, on the

job training, they get along with the transit police, the more senior security personnel, who have
been there for a while.
And they work very closely with the law enforcement folks. They're taught in their training to
disengage. That's what they're taught, and bring law enforcement in, because security guards
cannot make arrests or anything like that.
SHELLEY COOK: And to the extent that you make any changes, or add levels of supervision, or
otherwise draw up guidelines, or provide additional training, would you please keep in touch with
us on that? That clearly is of concern to some of us. And I think to the extent that we hear what
you're doing and kind of know that people are keeping on top of that, that would help, especially
since we're talking about a three-month period here at the outset.
MICHAEL MEADER: Absolutely
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Cook. Anyone else?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Lynn Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to echo the concerns that have been
expressed. And thank you, Madam Chair, for the work you put into putting together what sounds
like a really good task force.
I think that it's good to be looking at the whole code of conduct, and not just the changes, and
bringing it back in three months. I agree with Director Cook, that emergency situations, there's
maybe a little different situation right now. But I think let's look it over and take another look in
three months. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Anyone else?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I too wanted to applaud your plan to put in place this very strong ad hoc
committee. And it would be my hope, as Director Cook suggests, that we really take a look at how
we're training the TSO folks. And that maybe the committee could be-- add that to their agenda.
Because clearly, as a number of people have mentioned tonight, there is a fear of overpolicing and
unilateral authority that may not be warranted in a number of these situations. So I want to thank
you for setting up that committee. And I agree, that in three months, we may have a different

picture. And it does give us an opportunity to really look at the entire code rather than just the
revisions that are proposed tonight. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam First Chair. Anymore else?
KEN MIHALIK: Madam Chair, this Director Mihalik.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
KEN MIHALIK: Let me say, I'm absolutely supportive of strengthening the protection of our
patrons, and employees, and contractors, and as well as preserving the safety and hygiene on the
vehicles in the facilities and the infrastructure. And I think there's so many good things in the code
of conduct as it sits today. However, I was very concerned about the notion of the free speech
zones in the DUS presentation. And I know that was separate, but certainly connected to the code
of conduct.
And I understand that also may be an unfortunate description. But I think there needs to be some
further discussion around that. And I think that's going to take place in the ad hoc committee that
I'm really looking forward to. And I'm glad you are putting that together. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Ballard, could I have you just address the free
speech zone piece, please?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. The PowerPoint that was included in the committee was a good
idea up front, but it just confused the issue, because that was not being presented for consideration.
Unfortunately, there was one sentence in there that referred to free speech. That was a mistake. It
should never have been in there.
The author was trying to address issues of what is a public forum area and what is not a public
forum area. So the free speech term should never have been in the PowerPoint. It was a mistake,
and we have no intention to have any attacks on free speech.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Any other comments by any other board
members?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair, this is Director Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I have to echo the sentiments of many of my colleagues, in
particular, Director Mihalik. I think that I'd like to review this after we've had a deeper dive into
it.

Frankly, I don't think it's really ready for prime time right now. And so I would like to come back
after we've had the ad hoc committee go through it, and we have more conversation around this.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Anyone else?
JEFF WALKER: Walker.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I am in favor of the changes to it. I think it sets out expectations of our
patrons, that our patrons can have of RTD, staff and contractors, what patrons and passengers can
expect of each other, and what our RTD expects of our patrons.
I think it clarifies some things that were-- I don't want to say vague-- but weren't as sharp as they
could have been when it was written a few years ago, less than four years ago. So for instance, let's
talk about 35. I think it clarifies that, if a person is asked to leave only for violating another section
of the code or an applicable rule, then that's when that section comes into play. But an officer can't
just ask someone to leave because they don't like the way they look.
They have to-- the patron, our passengers, our customers, get to have a say in that. And they get to
ask what they were doing wrong, what code, or what section of the code, or the rule, was being
violated, if they're asked to leave. So I think it provides some protections for our passengers also.
It gives them a little strength and ups their expectations of the way that our staff and contractors
work.
So I'll be supporting these changes. And I'm also impressed about the broad coalition of folks that
will be on that ad hoc committee. That's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would like to speak in favor of these
changes to the code of conduct being adopted at this time, first of all, to address the issue that has
been brought up by several people. There is nothing about the code of conduct that would in any
way justify any misconduct by a transit security officer-- period.
This does not seek to give them additional power to break the law or to act in an improper or even
inappropriate manner. Nothing in this code accomplishes that. We would never ever consider such
a change in a code.
It is intended to provide for a direct response to the drivers that we have heard this evening, and
the many other drivers that we've heard from outside of this meeting, asking for some greater

clarity and assistance in providing for a safe and secure environment. That's what this is trying to
do. And the task force, that I think is an exceptional idea, can look at all of this, and other things,
and perhaps could address the training issue as part of their review of the code of conduct.
Nothing prevents the ad hoc committee from making suggestions or other changes for the Board
to consider in the future. But in the meanwhile, we are in a situation where we have some
significant abuses. The number of police calls into Denver Union Station we were briefed on last
time. The number of assaults, the number of problems that have arisen there that give our transit
passengers and our transit workers cause for concern have been significant.
And we need to demonstrate to them that we are responsible in providing that safety and security.
And I would urge all of you to vote for this code of conduct amendment tonight, so that we can
proceed in that manner, and then have the task force continue to look at other issues that could
come back to us for our consideration. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I'd like to call for the question. So
I'm going to go in alphabetical
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I have a comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --order. Pardon?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have not spoken yet. This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I would like-- well, a number of things. I am very
interested in the ad hoc committee. And I'm curious as to how the ad hoc committee will function.
I know I stated last week when this discussion came up that I was concerned that folks would be
overpoliced. And I have to disagree with you, Director Tisdale. I don't think it's about justification.
And in fact, overpolicing is typically not justified. And while I know there are concerns about our
operators-- and I have been fighting tooth and nail for our operators-- I think there is a way in
which we could have done this in a way that was more inclusive and collaborative. And it sounds
like with your ad hoc committee this may be the opportunity to do just that, particularly as other
directors have shared that they don't feel like this is completely fleshed out. And I'm concerned of
what happens between now and July, and what that means for folks. And so that I would ask that
we move to postpone this matter until July to give the ad hoc committee an opportunity to work to
create the code of conduct in partnership with the partners that you mentioned, as well as with
staff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That was a motion.

JUDY LUBOW: This is Judy Lubow, seconded.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any further discussion on the motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I heard Director Lubow give a second, and I don't know
if that was just an at a boy to comments or if that was a second to an implied motion. And could
you please clarify for the record?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: It was a second [INTERPOSING VOICES] to the motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order. I still don't know-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: --what motion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I made a motion. In considering that this ad hoc committee is now being
developed, I made a motion that we postpone this matter until July to give the ad hoc committee
the opportunity to rewrite the code of conduct in partnership with the folks that Director RiveraMalpiede mentioned earlier in our call.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, I'm going to ask Ms. McManus to step in here,
because I think I called for the question before you did the motion. And I think that overrides on
Robert's Rule of Order. I would just like to get a clarification, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You haven't heard from all of the directors.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I was doing, do I hear anything. I didn't call everybody
alphabetically. So if you don't mind, Director-- I mean, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So in this instance, although the question was called, we should move
on to the vote. A point of clarification should have been made that everybody spoke, and so I think
we should just move forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, I understand exactly what you're
saying. This committee will be working for three months, at which point we'll come back where
we can make changes or suggest changes as we move forward. So I'm going to ask for your
indulgence to allow this to move forward as was put on the amendment, knowing that it will come
back, and we will have the opportunity to change things as being seen fit by the ad hoc committee
as a recommendation to the RTD Board of Directors.

NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate you saying that. It doesn't change Robert's Rules of Order. And
that's something that you mentioned earlier in the call, is that we respect that, and we're not doing
that in this moment. And I just want to name that. Director Menten, feel free to chime in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Director Menten, your on.
NATALIE MENTEN: I was waiting to speak, but now we're at some point where we're asking
about calling the question. And if our Parliamentarian would please remind me if we need to have
consensus from the entire board to call the question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, can you repeat that?
NATALIE MENTEN: I was waiting in line to also speak to this whole issue itself. And it seemed
to be rushed to calling the question. And right now, I would like our Parliamentarian, which I'm
guessing is Ms. Ross-Amato, to remind me whether we need to have consensus of the whole board
to call the question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. Ross-Amato.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jenifer Ross-Amato, Acting General Counsel. So normally,
when a member calls the question, it is not debatable and should be voted upon. However, in this
case, as Ms. McManus stated, we wanted to make sure that everybody has an opportunity to
comment. And now that there is a motion pending before the assembly, it needs to be debated, if
there is any debate, and then voted upon before the main motion can be considered.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I may not be-- I may be the only one who is a little bit confused, but
maybe not. So when Ms. McManus said, go ahead and just vote, I'm not sure what that meant. Call
the question per Chair Rivera-Malpiede, vote on that? Or to vote on the motion that Director Lewis
made?
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. What I meant was that we should address
the motion that was made by Director Lewis, and I believe, seconded by Director Lubow.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you for that clarification. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Madam Chair, if I might-- this is Peggy Catlin. So the motion was to table
this until July after the committee has done its work, and we are now voting on that motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's to postpone, just to clarify, not to table it indefinitely. I'm just postponing
it until July, until July when the committee commences.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that clarification.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So Director Lewis, this is Director Folska. Director Lewis, if I may, you
have to specify a date certain to postpone the motion. So if you could kindly look at your calendar
and put that into your motion, I think it would be helpful. Sorry just for jumping in.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, I can do that. It's hard for me to know the date, because this ad hoc
committee came from the Chair Rivera-Malpiede. But I would guess that it would just come to the
committee that Director Williams chairs, because that's where it came originally, the code of
conduct. Then I'm going to pull up the calendar. Just give me one second here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Ms. McManus-KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd just like to point out that regardless, we do have
a code of conduct. What we are actually working on and discussing here are changes to the code
of conduct.
So if the motion to postpone the changes being added, we will not be without a code of conduct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That is correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: What Director Lewis is asking is that-- thank you. I just wanted to point that
out. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If we do a date certain in July, the operations committee meeting
would meet on July 14. So that would be the date certain.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would say we would probably need to go until August, because that would
not give us three months at least. Because I'm looking at this calendar, as we're in the 21st of April.
And so let's see the next committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I still think if we go July 14. The ad hoc committee is not a longterm committee. It is really to come in and work with us on the short-term. I think we probably
could make July 14. That would be [INTERPOSING VOICES].
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate that. I was just saying, in alignment with the three months that
you had presented, I was respecting that three months. Because I was guessing that you gave it
three months, because you believed that would be the amount of time that was necessary. And so
my proposal to keep it in alignment with three months was to respect what you had presented to
each of us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.

SHONTEL LEWIS: And it looks like that next meeting is August 11. And so the motion to
postpone this matter until July-- or August 11.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is there any other discussion-- I'm going to go by each
director to see if they have any comments on the motion-- to postpone the committee, or that code
of conduct, until August 11. So Director Broom, do you have any comment?
BOB BROOM: No comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook? Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry. I had the mute problem. Yeah, and any other time I would probably
vote to support the motion to postpone, but we've kind of built in a review process here.
We're going to have some extra reporting. And I feel like this kind of allows-- gives the staff a bit
more leeway in terms of addressing a pretty extraordinary set of circumstances here, while still
allowing for review, and cooler heads, and so forth, on that. So I'm going to vote against the motion
to postpone and in favor of the main motion. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska, do you have any comment?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, Chair, thank you very much. I would vote to postpone. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, you've made the motion, but do you have any
additional comments?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would just point out that this-- what I heard last week at our committee
meeting and what I've heard a bit from directors today is that they wanted to ensure that we were
being really intentional around the code of conduct, and thinking about our operators, and thinking
about the safety of our operators, our riders, as well as in bringing in the right partners to be able
to update this code of conduct. I think you're ad hoc committee does sets us up perfectly to be able
to do that collaboratively with partners.

And this addresses that, to postpone it, to give us time to be thoughtful about our approach, and to
make sure we're really coming back with a recommendation that doesn't feel like some people are
winning and some folks are losing. As I stated earlier, I was really concerned about the ambiguity
and the door that it opens up for my communities, and communities in which I represent, to be
overpoliced. And we've seen that historically and systemically, and that's where my concern comes
from.
I think this is a great opportunity with the code of conduct to be intentional. And I would encourage
all of the directors-- I would encourage the directors to think about it in that way to give ourselves
more time for a very important discussion and decision. And I think this postponing does that for
us, and it gives us more time to be thoughtful, and to present something that we can all be proud
of. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No comment. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. My comment was I was very much in support of the July date. Even
better would be to have a study session on July 7, which probably is not ideal for some with July
4. But I would like to handle some of the concerns and be moving forward on this sooner.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I was very much in favor of a July 14th date, and that's my only comment
on this specific motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm flexible.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Malik?
KEN MIHALIK: No comment, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: For the reasons previously stated, I am opposed to the motion to postponed
until August 11.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm opposed to the motion to move to August 11, because we do have a
code of conduct that has some less than stellar language in it. For instance, number 22, the addition
of all dogs must have proof of current vaccinations, et cetera. I've had lots of conversations with

people that have very expensive trained dogs, service dogs, that this is pretty much our only way
to vet out regular pets from dogs that actually serve a purpose to blind folks or folks who need that
type of assistance.
And the old number-- let's see. In item 23, there's still the language that prevents anybody else
who's not using a disability device or mobility device from using the high blocks. And the old
section 35 would still be in there. So because we would just leave it as it is, I think what we have
now is better. Although, we can always improve it, and I think that's the mission of the ad hoc
committee.
I'd rather see what the revisions go into effect sooner than later. So I'll be opposed to that motion.
Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Beyond the many questions I received from the
north area regarding the N Line, safety is the next most common question. And I'm really
concerned about the rider's safety for my commuters that go into DUS, and Civic Center, and other
gathering places in Denver.
But under our current situation, I'm even more concerned about the safety of our drivers. I really
look at this as a living document. And we've had great discussions last week, this week, and I feel
very strongly that the ad hoc committee will be very helpful in creating another step, and critiquing
and improving, perhaps, this document, and that we will have the opportunity to continue to do so.
And so I look forward to serving on the task force with my colleagues, the wonderful and very
important stakeholders, and our staff. So I think I'll be a no vote on the postponement. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I have no comment, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Now I'm going to call for the vote on Director Lewis's
amendment to the specified date of August 11 to move forward. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I was just going to clarify the date. I'm happy to-- because I heard a
number of folks share concerns around the July 7 date. I'm happy to change that.
And so if the motion needs to read, move to postpone this matter to July 7, I am more than happy
to do that. And I would also like to just say one more thing, particularly to Director-- oh my gosh- to Jeff. I'm sorry. Your-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Walker-SHONTEL LEWIS: --name just went out of my head.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much-- Director Walker-BARBARA MCMANUS: So the-SHONTEL LEWIS: --to Director Walker.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. This is Barbara McManus. The date would
be July 14.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So thank you, Barbara. I appreciate that. I'm happy to move that, if that's a
concern to folks.
And I would like to let you know, Director Walker, I actually heard from Safety DC after we had
our discussion last week, because someone brought up service animals. And I just wanted to
remind folks that there is actually no requirement for service dogs to be identified through patches,
harnesses, or other clothing. And you can see that through the Rocky Mountain ADA for guidance.
And then to Director Whitmore's comments about our riders, I would just remind us that we've
seen significant declines in ridership. And so one of the things I've done is really see the
opportunity with COVID to really start thinking about how we can create services in a world that
make more sense for us and that works for us. No further comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'd like to call for the vote now to move to postpone
to July 14. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Reluctantly, no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And the Chair is no. I count one 1, 2, 3-- 10 nos and 5 yeas. The
nos are Director Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Guissinger, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, Williams,
and the Chair.
So that motion fails. We are back to the original motion, and I have the movement as Director
Tisdale, and the second is Director Buzek. I'd like to call for the question. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chair is yes. I have 11 yeses, 4 nos. And I have the nos as
Folska, Menten, Lubow, and Mihalik. The motion passes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, Madam Chair, there were 5 nos and 10 yeses.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, did you vote no?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, I voted no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Because you know what? I thought I heard you say yes. I was
kind of surprised.
But, OK, let the record reflect, it is 5 nos and 10 yeses, with the nos including Director Lewis.
Thank you. I apologize.
Old business-- does any director have any old business to discuss?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: This would be regarding the comment about limiting discussion. And I will
ask, again, for some advice on the Robert's Rules of Order. And I am not going to ever claim to be
an expert on that 300-and-some pages, or depending on the version.
But my brief glance at limiting discussion in committees might indicate that that is prohibited. Ms.
Ross-Amato, could you speak to that or perhaps get back to us as to whether that's even an option
in a committee? And note that, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. I would like to ask Ms. Ross-Amato
to get back to us. We're going to send out a memo, and in the memo we're going to outline a bunch
of components that we found. And Director Menten, I really would appreciate your input.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And then after that, I would like to just go back to general-- I'll
wait until that's all done. I would like to go back to just one comment regard Allied Barton.
Since January, I have made probably about 10 trips-- and this was pre-COVID-- to look at Denver
Union Station bus terminal. Somebody doesn't have their mute on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could everybody mute their phone, please? Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: And I've made 10 trips down to the bus terminal, bus concourse, in the later
evening hours. And I don't think Allied Barton, most of the guys, even know who I might be. So I
state that, and that I was watching, let's call it, like being unknown.
And the treatment that I have seen from Allied Barton, with those who are intoxicated, drugged
out, and a variety of other strange situations, I've actually seen very kind, very moderate behavior,
very helpful behavior, from those men and women down there. I can understand that at times there
can be exceptions. But over all those trips that I made, that is what I witnessed firsthand during
late evening hours when there can be quite a show down there.

And I just wanted to state that for the record. That's it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Any other old business?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale, you have the floor.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I did just want to note, for the sake of
the record, because it was not mentioned during general manager's comments concerning face
masks, that we also received yesterday 1,000 face masks from the Chinese America Association,
Chinese American Association, courtesy of Ms. Susie Zheng, who is the president of the
association who contacted us and made that generous offer. And we received those 1,000 face
masks yesterday. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Any other-PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, First Vice Chair Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Director Tisdale, for that. But I just
wanted to also make sure that I personally acknowledge and appreciated Director Menten for her
efforts on the mask-making, and Director Lewis. And I know Director Guissinger has been looking
for sources as well.
And there are just a number of directors who are trying to help protect our operators and our
workers in cleaning and servicing our vehicles. It's really-- as I've talked to folks, I've even had
my representatives want to help reach out to some of her sources. So I think there are a lot of you
who are doing extraordinary work on behalf of our operators, and I just wanted to thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Nicely said, First Vice Chair. I concur with you. It has been very
heartwarming, and I have been just so honored to work with this group, who really care about our
operators and our front line workers. So thank you. Any other-KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams goes first, and then I'll call on you, Director
Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. It is of interest to me what partners come up in
times of need. We had mask donations from the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition from Mile
High Connects, from the union themselves-- many, many organizations coming together-- and that

has been one of the joys of this situation where there are not a lot of them. So I just wanted to
mention that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Lewis, you have the floor.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I really appreciate what everyone is saying about our
operators and making sure our operators are protected. And I actually thought this would be a
really great time to talk about some things that we can all advocate for as a Board to make sure
that they are continued to be protected during this COVID-19 pandemic. And there are 10 ways in
which you all can use your power, your influence, and your seat to do so.
I would ask that we include RTD and public agencies in the prioritization for testing with fully
paid on-site testing to include public transit agencies and the prioritization for delivery of personal
protective equipment, so more PPE, as you all have stated, hazard pay or hazard compensation at
1.5 times normal wages for essential personnel. So I know we've done some work around limiting
bus capacity, but we really need to limit bus passenger loads to no more than 10, and for one for
paratransit. Thank you, General Manager Ballard. I think you mentioned that you were urging
riders to cover their face with a bandanna or a scarf.
And I know I mentioned that last week, and so it's nice to hear that I those things are being
implemented. Something that I've heard from operators is that we really need to communicate with
employees and the public about COVID-19 cases within our RTD staff, figure out ways in which
we can retain our employees, and maintain that wages and benefits during service curtailments,
agree to pandemic leave policies that ensure no one that is potentially exposed to COVID-19 is
compelled to work or report to work to retain employment, to have a proactive plan to continue
protecting operators and the public after the state begins reopening business. And I think we should
communicate that sooner rather than later.
In any event, then maybe we don't want to use our capital in that way, we should provide in the
line of duty death benefits to our employees. Because if we aren't going to protect them, we at least
should provide some protection and support for their families in the event that we tragically lose
any of them. That concludes. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Hearing no other old business, going
once, going twice, is there any-NATALIE MENTEN: Menten, I'm sorry. Menten, I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I just want to clear this up, because I was a little bit confused. We
saw a blurb about Mile High Connect had said they had access potentially to some masks, and they
didn't ever see that that was really there. Maybe somebody from Safety, give me an update here
now, as I'm always keep a count on the masks. Did we get a batch of something from Mile High
Connects?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I can tell you. This is Director Louis. That they had delivered 1,000 of the
surgical masks, and I think 250 of the shields. Let me look, because I got an email recently saying
that they had dropped off.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams. That is correct. I believe they were delivered
yesterday.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Who is this, for the record?
KATE WILLIAMS: That was Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK, thank you. Does that answer your question, Director
Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. I had heard rumors, but I just had never heard of confirmation of
something. So I did-- was curious. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's 2,000 surgical masks and 240 face shields, and those were delivered.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is there any new business to come before this Board?
Hearing none, I will entertain a motion to move into Executive Session, pursuant to CRS24-6-402
paren 4, paren C, matters required-KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --to be kept confidential by the federal, or state law, or rules and
regulations. The local public body shall announce the specific citation of the statutes or the rules
that are a basis for such confidentiality before holding this Executive Session. Those citations are
CRS2-3-103 paren 2, CRS2-3-103.7 paren 1. Do I hear a movement?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second? I'm sorry? I'm sorry, who seconded?
TROY WHITMORE: Director Whitmore will second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. A movement is Director Williams, second is Director
Whitmore. I would just like to say before we adjourn into Executive Session, that for the record,
following the conclusion of the Executive Session, the Board will not reconvene to address any
additional business. And would all of those not entitled to remain please exit from the call at this
time? Thank you for participating this evening.

