2022-02-22
Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: And just for the record, I'll be departing the meeting at 6:15, at which time if you're still
assembled, First Vice Chair Guissinger will be taking over the meetings from there. I'll now call the
Tuesday, February 22 RTD Board meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Standard
Time.
I would respectfully ask everyone to mute themselves unless you are recognized speak. Thank you all for
joining us this evening. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being
held remotely in the interests of public health, safety, and welfare.
The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
Colleagues, being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values we can all agree upon.
As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website.
Thank you.
Director Williams, would you please do us the honor of leading us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
KATE WILLIAMS: If I can unmute, I would be happy to do that. OK, here we go. I pledge allegiance to the
flag.
MARJORIE SLOAN: To the flag of the United States of America.
KATE WILLIAMS: And to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty
and justice for all.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Director Rivera-Malpiede, would you please
read out the land acknowledgment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would be honored. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the
land on which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and

other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders
who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the native and all the historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future
contributions in the district as we move forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that. Ms. McManus, would you please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal. Director Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: And I'm here also. We've got 14 present, one absent-- that's Director Rosenthal. We do
have a quorum.
Next I'll move on to retiree awards. There are no retiree awards for this evening. First quarter retiree
awards will be announced at the March Board of Directors meeting.
Next, we move on to public participation. This period is open to anyone who would like to address the
Board. Those who would like to address the Board but are unable to attend Board meetings can submit
their comments in writing to be read into the record that rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Ms. McManus,
were any emailed comments received for tonight's meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There were not.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. We'll move on. As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present
to speak first. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press
star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6
to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing and you will not have the opportunity to
speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email
those materials to the Board Office at the following email address-- rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have three minutes to speak.
Speakers, please refrain from profane or obscene speech, direct your comments to the Board as a whole,
and refrain from personal attacks. Ms. McManus, do we have anybody in the queue to speak?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we have one attendee ready to speak right now. And the name is Danny
Katz.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. Danny Katz, you are free to begin.
DANNY KATZ: Great Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Danny Katz.
I'm the Executive Director of CoPIRG, the Colorado Public Interest Research Group.
If you're unfamiliar, we're a nonprofit here based in Denver. We speak up for a safer and healthier
Colorado where everyone is freer to pursue their own individual well-being as well as the public good.
And I would have to say public transportation is critical to that kind of a mission.
I'm here to say two things. One, I serve on the RTD Reimagine Committee. And I didn't know exactly a
good time to say this, so I'll just say now. I want to thank all the staff and everyone who's been working on
that RTD Reimagine Committee for all the hard work that went into creating the System Optimization Plan
and everything else.
I would have to say the last two years, being a part of this process has been one of the most challenging
processes to keep a conversation going during a time of a pandemic and Zoom meetings and all those
things. And I really appreciate the hard work that everyone put into that. And it's exciting to see something
like a System Optimization Plan come out of that.
I know the System Optimization Plan is not perfect. And I'm sure you'll likely see a few things that you'll
want to change. But I want to just speak as somebody who was on that Board or on that committee and
say that I think they did a very good job of trying to bring together all the different values that people held
to ensure that there was some sort of way to use very limited resources to have a transit system that
likely will improve the quality of service, the access, and increased ridership as well.
So like I said, I'm sure there will be some changes you'll be thinking of making. But overall, I just wanted
to compliment where the plan actually wound up and how it brought together some of those critical
components to make it a good transit system.
The last thing I wanted to say is that I think the biggest message I get out of the System Optimization
Plan is that we just need more service overall. So when we have a limited pie, it is tempting to spend a lot
of time debating how to use that limited funding. And I think the System Optimization Plan really shows, if
we're going to be at 85% of pre-pandemic levels by 2027, that's just not good enough for the region. If
RTD is not successful, we're not successful as a region, no matter whether it's air pollution, safety,
mobility. And so I really hope that RTD will spend just as much time, if not more, thinking through the plan
for the future that really grows the pie and gives us as advocates the tool to be able to advocate for
additional funding so that we could double the amount of service, or triple the amount of service, that's
available in this region.
RTD can't do it alone. I recognize that. I just want to make sure there's a lot of people out there who want
to see RTD succeed, transit succeed. And we want to see how we can help increase that pie. And so

please, spend as much time as you did on that System Optimization Plan thinking through the bigger
picture, how we grow that over the next couple of years. Thank you very much. Thanks for all your
service.
VINCE BUZEK: And thanks for those comments. And thank you for your participation in the Reimagine
process. Ms. McManus, any other comments?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no other hands.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public participation
period at this time and move on to the external entities reports. The Access-a-Ride Access Paratransit
Advisory Committee, APAC, the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, ACPD, and the Citizens
Advisory Committee, CAC, did not have any reports for February, but are all expected to attend the
March 22 Board meeting to provide their respective updates and reports.
Next, we move on to the Audit Ad Hoc Committee Report. Second Vice Chair Catlin, please share with us
your report, if any.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr. Chair, I'll be brief. Our Audit Ad Hoc Committee did not meet on February
7, because there are a number of items in process, but nothing really to report at that time or to discuss.
But some of those items that were in process were the internal audit consulting and advisory services
solicitation. General Manager and CEO Johnson will update us on that.
Also, today was a presentation to the State Legislative Audit Committee regarding the memo that you all
saw on that CEO/GM Johnson distributed to us. Chair Buzek and I did attend along with Ms. Johnson and
Doug MacLeod and Michael Ford. And Ms. Johnson will also report on that during her General Manager's
Report.
But suffice it to say it was very, very quick and very easy. And the comment we heard from our lobbyists
was that it was one of the better legislative Audit Committee meetings for RTD that they had attended.
With that said, our next meeting will be as scheduled this coming Monday the 28th at 8 o'clock in the
morning. That concludes my report, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you Second Vice Chair Catlin. We move on now to the Finance and Planning
Committee Report. Committee Chair Davidson, do you have anything you would like to report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll just mention for those who may not have been present for the
entire duration that we did move forward three recommended actions which are on the unanimous
consent agenda this evening-- the financial advisor contract extension during which we discussed the
rationale for extending that contract-- we did move that forward-- the insurance payment budget transfer,
as well as the salaried trustee appointments.
Additionally, during the committee meeting, we did have a robust discussion led by CEO and General
Manager Johnson regarding the Reimagine RTD System Optimization Plan and a series of five next

steps that Ms. Johnson had been taking. So certainly thank you to Ms. Johnson for leading that
discussion and bringing forward some next steps. That concludes my remarks, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that report. Next is the Operations and Safety Committee Report. I believe
Paul Rosenthal is the Chair. I just received a text from Director Rosenthal. He has just landed at DIA. I
don't know if he was flying or a passenger, but indicated that he's just landed at DIA.
So who is the Vice Chair of that committee? Would that be-KATE WILLIAMS: That would be me, Chair. That would be me.
VINCE BUZEK: Do have a report at all, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do not. I do not believe that there's anything serious that we need to report at this
time.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds great. Thanks so much for that. Next is the Performance Committee Report.
Committee Chair Lewis, do you have anything you'd like to report?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep it briefly. Had the opportunity to elect officers. Plante
Moran, our consultants that we've been working with for some time, came to give us a presentation on the
strategic plan survey results and the data evaluation. I'll work with the Board Office to determine when our
next meetings-- or sequence of meetings, excuse me, will happen. And I'll do so with input from members
of that committee. That's it for my report, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that report.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
VINCE BUZEK: We'll move on to the approval of Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The
Board and committee minutes were included in the Board packet.
BOBBY DISHELL: A point of clarification, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
BOBBY DISHELL: For the sake of the record, it was Transport Consulting who came to the Performance
Committee. Thank you, Director Lewis for the all-star Report. It's Transport Consulting who came to the
committee to present. And Plante Moran validated that data.
That's exactly right. Thank you so much. That's why you're the co-chair-- Vice Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: That's what she meant to say. Moving on, the Board and committee minutes were
included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from the directors?

Seeing none. Unless there is an objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, may I please
have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings, January 25, 2022 Board meeting,
February 8, 2022 Finance and Planning Committee, February 17, 2022, Executive Committee, and
February 17, 2022, Performance Committee. Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams, seconded by-DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, Doug.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: Tisdale. Any discussion on this? Seeing none, are there any no votes to approve these
meeting minutes? And seeing none, this passes 15 to 0.
Move on to the Chair's Report. Just very briefly had some discussions with Ms. Johnson regarding
scheduling an upcoming study session to examine zero emission vehicles and their integration and
transition to them at RTD.
We're going to start with the study session, get a briefing from our staff who have been looking at this
matter seriously, after which I may appoint an ad hoc committee for further study and discussion to
ultimately maybe bring this to us as a policy matter. That's all I have.
General Manager Report. General Manager Johnson, please share with us your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may, I did notice that General Counsel Snyder has had her hand up.
VINCE BUZEK: Very sorry, Mrs. Snyder, go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: That's OK. Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to note for the record on that vote on the
minutes that the vote is 14 to 0 with Director Rosenthal absent.
VINCE BUZEK: My mistake. You're absolutely right-- 14-0, and Director Rosenthal absent. Thanks.
General Manager Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, sir. So good evening to all of you, Board members, and
to all who are virtually assembled. As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of
the Regional Transportation District.
This evening, I will share with you the following information centered around the agency's strategic
priorities. Speaking to the community value, I will discuss efforts related to Spare the Air and Fares
Program, RTD's participation in the Legislative Audit Committee meeting held earlier today, of which

Director Catlin spoke of, the selection of a consultant to lead the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study, as
well as subregional service councils' formation, their Reimagine RTD initiative, and particularly the
extension of the System Optimization Plan, public feedback window, and finally my participation in recent
speaking engagements on behalf of the agency.
In relationship to customer excellence, I will share information regarding ongoing efforts to address
unwelcome activity occurring in Denver Union Station and the surrounding area. And related to employee
ownership strategic priority, I will touch on the agency's continued COVID-19 pandemic responses.
So under community value, efforts related to Spare the Air and Fares Program, I wanted to ensure I
provided just a brief update on what has been happening thus far, because I do know you have been
hearing a lot about it and receiving communique from a myriad of different entities. So in furtherance of a
commitment made to the Accountability Committee in August of 2021, plans are proceeding to implement
Spare the Air and Fare days in 2022 in a regional effort to mitigate air quality issues, particularly during
the time of year when ozone pollution is at its highest.
Staff is taking into account operational and fiscal considerations and implementing this program. RTD is
amenable to expanding the scope of the program but must keep in mind ancillary factors, such as the
unintended consequences of offering unlimited system usage to those who would take undue advantage.
And then additional action from our partners in the state legislature may result in legislation that could
potentially supplement or support RTD's efforts and others across the state. And staff will be staying
tuned as new bills are introduced in the coming weeks.
Earlier today, I, along with Chair Buzek, Director Catlin, Michael Ford, and Doug MacLeod, attended a
meeting of the Legislative Audit Committee. The purpose of RTD's presence was to present a status
report to the Committee on the implementation of recommendations resulting from the performance audit
conducted by the Office of the State Auditor in 2020 and released in January of 2021.
The recommendations centered on operative retention and quality of life, the agency's internal audit
function, and the metric or metrics that would serve to replace the fare box recovery ratio, and gauging
the agency's performance. Staff has been working diligently over the past year to implement these
recommendations. And the committee had no comments or questions regarding the implementation
status of recommendations thus far.
The Auditor's Office process is to follow up with all oddities annually in July to get updates on the
recommendations that are not fully implemented. As such, the State Auditor will send RTD a request for
an update on the status of each recommendation, and will send a spreadsheet for providing the agency
that information. The auditor's office submits an annual report to the General Assembly, which is
published around October and November each year.
If all of RTD's recommendations are implemented by the summer, then the annual report will note that
there are no remaining recommendations that RTD needs to implement. Any recommendations that are
still partially implemented would be explained in the report that is presented to all legislators in each
January.

For the Board's reference, many of the recommendations have been fully implemented. And the
remainder of the partially implemented recommendations are slated to be closed out by April of 2022, as
training programs are fully put into place as relates to the operational piece of it and the internal audit
services consultant is selected. I would note that the solicitation for the auditing consultant is currently
being advertised and will be posted through the month of March 20, 2002.
The next item I would like to touch upon is the selection of a consultant to lead the Northwest Rail Peak
Service Study. As noted in a memorandum that I distributed-- or John McKay did on my behalf to the
Board earlier today-- following a thorough public solicitation process, HDR Engineering has been selected
as the consultant to assist RTD in planning and engineering efforts for the Northwest Rail Peak Study.
Following the Board's authorization on August 24, 2021, staff released a request for proposals for a
consultant team to assist in the planning and engineering efforts and to prepare the study documents.
RTD received proposals from three firms-- David Evans and Associates, HNTB Corporation, and HDR.
Evaluations were made by the Technical Evaluation Committee, comprised of representatives of each city
and county along the Northwest Rail alignment, as well as individuals from the Colorado Department of
Transportation and Denver Regional Council of Government, as well as RTD. Committee members
evaluated the proposal separately and discussed their evaluations collectively. HDR's proposals scored
highest in the four technical scoring areas.
Next up I'd like to touch upon the subregional service councils' formation. Consistent with RTD's
response, the recommendations of the former Accountability Committee, staff has formed a working
group that will provide input regarding the purpose, membership, and boundaries of subregional service
councils. The working group is comprised of 12 representatives from counties, the Denver Regional
Council of Governments, and several non-governmental organizations, including Mile High Connects.
The first meeting is scheduled for this Thursday, February 24. Staff expects to meet with the working
group three to four times in order to formulate recommendations for the Board's consideration, possibly to
be brought forward in May or June regarding the formation of the subregional service councils.
Now circling back to Reimagine RTD, and particularly the extension of the System Optimization Plan
public feedback window, during the Finance and Planning Committee meeting held on February 8, I
provided responses to questions posed by Director Cook regarding the Reimagine RTD Initiative during
the January 25, 2022 Board meeting. At that time, I reported that I had worked with staff and directed the
team to extend the System Optimization Plan comment period through March 9, 2022.
To date, staff has received over 1,000 System Optimization Plan-related comments, and conducted more
than 30 meetings to garner feedback from customers and stakeholders. In the coming weeks, staff will
continue with multicultural outreach, including direct customer outreach, radio ads, and take one collateral
on our revenue vehicles, the on-line tool, which also has a telephone option-- it's offered in English and
Spanish, and continues to be a robust method of gathering comments. The RTD website landing page
now has a prominent banner directing customers to this tool.

During the committee meeting on February 8, I also apprised the Board that the schedule extension
would have impact on the project's budget, scope, and overall timeline. However, prior to any scope
modification, staff and I need to understand the Board's desire for greater involvement. Hence, the Board
will receive a poll soon requesting input on a potential deep dive, Reimagine RTD Study session in June,
and/or how the Board could be more involved.
Using this information as a guidepost, I anticipate authorizing a contract extension within the next few
weeks to extend the performance period from March 31 to August 2, 2022, direct the project manager
and consultant team to complete additional scope related to project activities and include a budget
amendment with an anticipated cost impact between $200,000 and $225,000. This approach will now
result in the Board's consideration of the SOP coupled with that of the mobility plan for the future during
the May, June, July time period.
Lastly, rounding out this section, on the topic of external speaking engagements, on February 2, Chair
Buzek and I participated in a seminar session hosted by the American Public Transportation Association
regarding Board and CEO relationships. The session was introduced by our own Board member, Doug
Tisdale, who also serves as the chair of the transit Board Member Committee, and moderated by David
Stackrow, former chair of the APTA Board of Directors.
Other panelists included Ari Jolly and Nathaniel P. Ford, board chair and CEO, respectively, of the
Jacksonville Transportation Authority, as well as Gail Carr Williams and Steve Bland, chair and CEO,
respectively, of WeGo Public Transit in Nashville, Tennessee.
On Tuesday, February 8, I participated in the Moving People Forward Panel hosted by Bicycle Colorado,
a discussion among women leaders and transportation that also included Shoshana Liu, executive
director of the Colorado Department of Transportation, and Corinne Kisner, executive director of the
National Association of City Transportation Officials. The panel was moderated by Naomi Amaha, director
of Policy and Government Affairs of the Denver Foundation, with a keynote from Beth Osborne, director
of Transportation for America.
And then last week on Monday, February 14, I met with representatives from Conservation Colorado,
along with Michael Davies. And earlier today, a meeting ensued with members of the Colorado Forum,
along with Chair Buzek and First Vice Chair Lynn Guissinger, as well as Michael Davies, to discuss air
quality mitigation efforts, and specifically those surrounding the Spare the Air and Fares Program.
I look forward to continuing to work with stakeholders at the federal, state, and local levels to develop and
implement a Spare the Air and Fares Program, align with the strategic priority of community value with
states, that RTD strives to be a strong community partner, providing value to customers as well as to the
broader Denver Metro region while sustaining Planet Earth.
Regarding customer excellence, ongoing efforts to address unwelcome activity occurring at Denver Union
Station and the surrounding area continues. The Reclaiming DUS Steering Committee continues to meet
on a regular cadence. As a reminder, the steering committee is comprised of a cross jurisdictional team,
incorporating members of RTD's leadership, as well as the Transit Police Division, senior members of

Mayor Hancock's administration, and other municipal departments, as well as representatives from the
Denver Police Department and Denver Sheriff's Department, as well as our own Director Angie RiveraMalpiede.
Subcommittees have now commenced meeting on a biweekly cadence to tactically address specific
issues, including but not limited to policing and enforcement matters, community engagement, and
communications, as well as RTD's employees' experiences. The steering committee will meet again just
later this week, and then on a monthly cadence.
And as I said before, the unwanted activities impacting Denver's Union Station are a byproduct of
complex societal issues. And we all know that RTD can't solve these issues alone. And that is why these
mitigating challenges-- we'll work hard in an all-in effort among RTD, community, municipal, and
legislative partners.
And lastly, regarding employee ownership, I will now discuss COVID-19 pandemic responses. Earlier
today I communicated with RTD staff regarding ongoing pandemic mitigation efforts. The spread of the
Omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus throughout the state of Colorado and around the nation is now
subsiding nearly as quickly as it surged. Considering the rate of vaccinated and boosted individuals
continues to climb, and positive case rates continue to fall from recent highs, there is reason still to be
cautiously optimistic.
That said, in the interest of the health and safety of the agency's employees and customers, we cannot
throw caution to the wind as current health statistics as of yesterday, Monday, February 21, indicate the
pandemic is still far from over. Nearly 96% of all counties across the United States remain at high
community transmission rates, meaning that those counties have experienced more than 100 cases per
100,000 individuals in the past seven days.
According to data from the Centers for Disease Control, 1,335,345 new COVID-19 cases were reported
on January 10 alone. Most counties within the RTD service area experienced a seven-day rolling average
of COVID-19 case rates between 175 and 225 per 100,000 individuals.
Facility capacity here at the district remains at 25%, though falling transmission rates could prompt
revisions to this limitation in the near future. Starting tomorrow, the agency will discontinue mandated
temperature checks and health screenings at all facilities, except those considered to be an outbreak
status as defined by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.
Additionally, those engaged in NCAP training or driving non-revenue vehicles with other occupants will no
longer be required to wear N95 masks. The federal mask mandate for public transit is set to expire on
March 18, 2022. And there is speculation that the federal government will not further extend the mandate
for surface transportation. I will apprise this Board as soon as practicable regarding any changes to state
or federal health guidance or masking requirements.
And with that, Chair Buzek, my report is concluded. I thank you very kindly for your attention.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that report. Are there any questions or comments for our General
Manager/CEO? Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr, Chair, and thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson, for your
comprehensive report. I have two questions related to the Spare the Air Fare Program.
The first is, in your experience and around the country, does it work. I know it's not a small amount of
dollars that we would be throwing at this initiative. And is that the highest and best use of the money to
accomplish the goals of reducing cars on the road?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Director Dishell, thank you for your questions. And as we talk about
Spare the Air and Spare the Fares, I think it's a multi-pronged approach in which we're taking here.
Because if anything, what we're trying to do is entice people to change their travel patterns in the sense of
basically by encouraging them to try something they may not have utilized before, and recognizing the
vehicle miles traveled could be a byproduct of that.
For all intents and purposes, we want people to make conscious choices as relates to contributing to
sustaining Planet Earth. Any data that I gave you would be purely speculative regarding some areas of
the country that have leveraged this. There is some communique that I shared with you whereby in a
TCRP report I talked about there's really no hard press data that says whether or not it helped to reduce
vehicle miles traveled. But I think, if anything, when you look at a region, it will be basically geared toward
that environment in and of itself.
So that's how I would answer that question, which is not a direct response, because I would just purely be
guessing to say, yes, we'll do that. So and I don't believe that I'm in a place to state that. But I do think it's
a worthwhile initiative as we look to try and change behavior and entice people to utilize transit.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, talking around all for free or low fares and getting people on the train or the bus
or paratransit, whatever other modes they'd like to use, that is, in a single occupancy vehicle.
The second question is, is squaring this with-- now that as we've been briefed on before, which is our
obligations under Title VI of the Federal Civil Rights Act. And I know we've talked about promotional fares
or reducing fares for a short period of time, there are certain restrictions that we have. And feel free if you
or counsel want to follow up after. That's just something that came up for me when I've heard in the past
we've had some pushback on the ability to lower fares for a route or a promotional fare. But here it
sounds like we may not have that challenge.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Dishell, if I may, keeping in mind that the whole aspect of the Federal Transit
Administration is for congestion mitigation relief. And if one were to look at the guidelines the FTA puts
forward as it relates Title VI, if in fact we're providing service to the entire district and not picking and

choosing whereby you're creating a disparate impact or disproportionate burden, that wouldn't be
applicable. And then more so as we talk holistically about federal dollars that we were looking to utilize,
which are congestion mitigation and air quality funds, that's how we're able to provide service for the free
mall shuttle on the 16th.
Those different elements qualify what we're able to do, because that's the intent of the program in and of
itself.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Davidson-- oh, I'm sorry, Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have two things to talk about. The first one is that I
want to absolutely commend our general manager and her team, Mr. MacLeod and the Finance
Department and the leadership for the outstanding audit presentation this morning at the state legislature.
I was there a year ago, and it wasn't so pretty. It was absolutely heart-wrenching when we went a year
ago. And I just want us to take a moment to realize how far we have come as an agency and as a Board
of Director and the leadership that we have in place. So I just want to say, thank you, general manager
and your team. Nice, nice job. Thank you.
The second, and I don't know if this is the proper place, Mr. Chair. You can stop me if so. I'm honored to
have been asked to sit as part of the committee for Reclaiming Denver Union Station. And as is District C,
my district is in Denver Union Station.
It is the catalyst of every one of us. Every district is impacted by the actions that are occurring in Denver
Union Station. And I've been doing a lot of work and research. And I wanted to let you all know I will be
contacting each and every one of you to brief you individually. And I'm going to publicly ask you to invite
all of your elected officials to join us as we do tours in Denver Union Station to learn what's happening
and how we can all work together for the good of the whole community.
This is a societal systemic issue that has far-reaching implications. I don't need to share with you that last
night we lost four community members and a baby almost died from fentanyl. It is an issue we need to
look at. We need to look at it together.
And it is something that we can really come together for the good of the community. It may be in RTD's
wheelhouse, but this clearly is an issue for the entire community. With that, thank you, Mr. Chair.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And Director Rivera-Malpiede, if I may, thank you very much for your comments. But
as I have said publicly and said to all of you, I cannot run this organization by myself. And recognizing the
vast majority of that performance audit had a lot to do with operations and how we schedule. I'd be remiss
not to acknowledge the hard work of Michael Ford and Fred Worthen and Dave Jensen and their
respective teams who basically got survey data from different peers about doing exit interviews, and our

human resources team, because it took a myriad of people to compile that information for us to be at a
place where we were able to make good on our word, recognizing that I had just been here only for two
months when we went before that committee.
And so I just want to thank every single member of the team that had a handle in making this a reality. So
thank you very much for your comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
[CLAPPING]
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Director Davidson, you're next.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And Director Rivera-Malpiede set it up, but I'll just pile on and
say thank you to CEO and General Manager Johnson and team for the work on reporting to the Office of
the State Audit.
Don't need to restate it-- we've come a long way. So thank you, and thank you to the whole team for the
collaboration with the Board on that, and as chair of the Ad Hoc Audit Committee, Second Vice Chair
Catlin, thank you also for being present and speaking there.
So thank you for the collaboration two ways between Board and leadership here to get that done, and the
leadership. And then also just, Ms. Johnson, thank you very much for continuing to give us a report that's
very tied into strategic plan.
I think it's awesome that we're anchoring to something that we can all agree upon with our values and our
strategic outcomes. So appreciate the structure of the updates. Thank you. That concludes my remarks,
Mr. Chair. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, director. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. First quick thanks for the work on the SOP and getting arms around a
modification of the scope of work for the consultant to bring, and mobility plan for the future. Thank you
very much.
And I would note, it wasn't just me. If you recall, there were several directors. And I think you were
wonderfully responsive to the concerns that a number of us had raised.
On the COVID protocols, I wonder if it isn't time. Can we begin to develop a scenario for beginning to be
in-person again? Maybe it's in-person hybrid Zoom, with the expiration of the federal mandates and so
forth, begin to look at, meeting in person maybe on the third floor for committee meetings and main floor
or not. It just seems like that'll take a little bit of time to put in place. And this might be a good time to at
least develop scenarios for it. Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Director Cook. And I'm laughing because there is an internal team
looking at that. And we have been making some modifications. I know that Mr. McManus has been
involved, Mr. Ford, Mr. Stopplecamp, a myriad of different people.
I'm leaving out somebody, so that's not my intent. And so, yes, as we go forward and as a team, we're
looking at the data. And I think basically the catalyst for this will help us as we look at what happens with
March 18th right with the mask mandate and all the other aspects. So thank you for that.
And hopefully we can all get together in person. And it'll be my first meeting in person down in the room.
So I look forward to that as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook, does that conclude your remarks? Yes, it does. Director Williams, you're
next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I have a complete and total about-face here. I want to let everybody know
that I got off of a Bustang bus last night at 8 o'clock at night in Union Station. It was bitterly cold. There
was nobody in Downtown Denver. The place was deserted.
And the warmest and safest place to be, including for me, and I think I'm pretty self-confident, was either
in Union Station-- however, I didn't intend to hang out there-- was the free MallRide bus where I did spend
some time going from one end of town to the other.
But it gave me a really interesting outlook, because I didn't see any-- and I saw some very interesting
people, let me put it that way-- but at no point in time did I feel threatened at all. And my heart was just
rung by how nasty it was outside and where those people were going to go and what they were going to
do.
So I just had my eyes opened a little more last night. And the other thing I want everybody to look about is
I'm not sure where we are moving, but I can tell you that on a holiday night, there wasn't anybody
Downtown. It wasn't a lot of commerce in the Downtown area. And I was the only person on the 16th
Street free MallRide, most of the length of the mall.
So, there's just some things that maybe we as a Board when we go to our upcoming retreat need to look
at. Thank you, Chair, for indulging me.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Williams. Any other questions or comments for General Manager
Johnson?
Seeing none, we're going to move on. But at this point in time, I am going to turn this meeting over to first
Vice Chair Guissinger, as I have a commitment with the Thornton City Council at this time. Thanks all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I'm happy to help here. We are now at unanimous
consent. There are three items on the unanimous consent agenda listed under item 15 as actions A
through C.

They are financial advisor contract extension, payment budget transfers [AUDIO OUT]. If anyone has a
change to or questions on one of these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this time and I will, of
course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration under recommended
action.
Are there any questions, concerns.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Seeing none, great. I was going to ask for a motion to approve the consent agenda.
I heard Director Broom with the movement. Do we have a second?
SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second is Rivera-Malpiede. Are there any no votes on this consent agenda?
Seeing none, with 14-- no, 13 yes votes, zero no votes, and two absences. That motion passes
unanimously. Thanks.
There's one recommended action on the agenda tonight, listed as item 16. That action is House Bill 221026. The Board's position-- for the Board of Directors to adopt a support position on House Bill 22-1026,
concerning the replacement of the income tax deduction for amount spent by an employer to provide
alternative transportation options to employees with an income tax credit for amounts spent by an
employer for that purpose, as the bill was introduced.
Do we have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I heard Rivera-Malpiede and Director Williams. I would like to ask General
Manager Johnson or Michael Davies, government relations officer, to present any pertinent information
regarding this action for the Board.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Guissinger, I will yield the floor to Mr. Davies, our government relations
officer, who is well on top of this. So Mr. Davies, the floor is yours.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I know he is. Thank you, Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you. Thank you, Chair, members of the Board, Michael Davies, government
relations officer. Just a few brief remarks-- I'm happy to answer questions on this action to support House
Bill 22-1026. That's an alternative transportation options tax credit.

I do want to take one moment to make a correction from your report and thank Director Tisdale for
pointing this out in the Executive Committee. He rightfully saw an error. In the report, it says changing an
existing tax credit and replacing it with a new tax credit.
And that is not-- it is changing an existing tax deduction and replacing it with a tax credit. And that is an
important difference. And again, thank you, Director Tisdale, for pointing that out.
So with that verbal correction, just a little bit of that background on this bill. It was well vetted by the
General Assembly. It was vetted by an interim committee over the summer and fall.
And how this bill kind of came about was legislative staff for the capital identified this tax deduction as an
underutilized deduction and basically marked it for either deleting the tax deduction or improving it.
And the authors of this bill, Representative Bird, Representative Woog, Senator Hassan, and Senator
Liston, they decided to introduce this bill that would improve the existing tax deduction with a replacement
of a tax credit. And that tax credit is up to 50% of eligible transportation expenses. And that includes
transit passes.
And there was a amendment in the first round of committee on this bill that did also add bikes and bike
infrastructure and other alternative modes of travel that could be seen as kind of first and last mile
additions. Had a wide support for that amendment, and overall wide support for this bill in the first hearing
passing by 7 to 4 in the first committee.
So with that-- and, oh, one last thing, in researching this and looking at background overall on tax credit
use throughout the country, there is not a lot of research that has firm data on this. And one of the main
recommendations that many states and people that just had best practices listed for how to implement
these policies did list that putting reporting requirements in these bills is an important piece.
And this bill does have some reporting requirements that has these companies. In order to get the tax
credit, they have to report exactly who's utilizing it, how many employees, and to the extent feasible how
much they use this tax credit, so helpful data for us, certainly, And with that, I will answer any questions, if
there are any.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are there any questions or discussion on this motion? Seeing none, I'll now call for
the vote. Are there any no votes on this motion? With 13 yes votes and no no votes and two absents, the
motion passes.
That is the end of our recommended actions. We are in other matters. Are there any other matters from
anyone on the Board? Great. Seeing none, we do have an Executive session tonight, Executive session
pursuant to section 24-6402 iv(b) of the Colorado Revised Statutes to receive legal advice, and section
24-6402 iv(e) CRS for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations
regarding the successor collective bargaining agreement with the Amalgamated Transit Union Local
1001.

In a moment, the Directors will meet in an Executive session to receive legal advice in relation to the
collective bargaining agreement with the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001.
Please note that the Board will reconvene an open session after the Executive session ends, with no
further business on the agenda. I will now entertain a motion to move into Executive session pursuant to
section 24-6402 iv(b) CRS.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hang on-- to receive legal advice in section 24-6402 iv(e) CRS for determining
positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations regarding the successor collective
bargaining agreement with the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001.
I heard a movement. Was that you, Director Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin, that was me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin. Second, Vice Chair Catlin. And I heard a second from Director
Tisdale. Great. Is there anyone opposed to this motion? Great.
Will all those entitled to participate in the Executive session please move into the other meeting at this
time. Thanks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER: Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000,
option 4, or fill out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.

The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.

At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000. option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.

[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at RTD denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000 6,000, option
4, or fill out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.

The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD

service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at RTD denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.

At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.

[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.

The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD

service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.

At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train. Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or
packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A Line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD Mobile App to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number 1 priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other riders
at bus stops and train stations. And always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As we
clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD Mobile Ticketing App on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 303-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

LYNN GUISSINGER: I see. I think 12 or so of us. So are we being recorded? Yes, OK, the Board
meeting will now come back to order at 7:31.
Thank you to everyone on the line for your patience. We have no further business. I will now entertain a
motion to adjourn this meeting.
JULIEN BOUQET: So moved.

DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I saw Director Bouquet as the movement and Director Tisdale is the second. Thank
you all for participating tonight. The meeting is adjourned. Thank you for joining us this evening. See you
in a couple weeks.

