2021-06-22
Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: June 22. Sorry, guys. Here we go. All right.
Good evening. I will now call to order the Tuesday, June 22 RTD Board meeting to order. We are
convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. And please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings
of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the Board meetings, will be posted as soon as possible on
the Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com and a livestream of this meeting will also be available via
RTD's YouTube page.
I'd like to start this evening with the civility statement that states, colleagues, being selected as a member
of this body imposes
SPEAKER: This meeting is being recorded.
[ECHOING NOISE]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --obligation for each of us.
OK, there is some reverberation. I'll go ahead and start again.
Colleagues, being elected as members of the body, this body, imposes an ethical obligation for each of
us to enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our
collective duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of
mutual respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the values we can all agree upon.
As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board of Directors
and to act in accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the
RTD website. Thank you.
For this evening, we are reinstating our Pledge of Allegiance. And I would like to start this evening asking
Director Bouquet to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. Director Bouquet, would you please?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Am I coming in clearly?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, you are.

JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Perfect. All right. Well, I will start us off with our Pledge of Allegiance.
IN UNISON: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it
stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Bouquet.
This evening, I will be reading the proposed text of a land acknowledgment. For those in our audience
who may be unfamiliar, the Smithsonian's National Museum of American Indian states that land
acknowledgment is the traditional custom that dates back centuries in many Native nations and
communities today. Land acknowledgments are used by Native peoples and non-Natives to recognize
indigenous peoples who are the original stewards of the lands on which we now live. This language will
be included in a recommended action schedule to be considered in July. If approved by the Board, the
reading of the land acknowledgment will become a regular part of our proceedings during Board
meetings.
Here is how the language will be stated. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on
which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other
contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who
have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded in these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to the working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the Native and the historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future
contributions in the District as we move forward. Thank you.
Ms. McManus, if you could do the official roll call, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you, Chair. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am also here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, one absent, Director Dishell.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
I'd like to begin the meeting with a short safety briefing. And while recent public health orders have been
relaxed, requirements for the use of face coverings in certain settings, don't let your guard down quite yet.
As a reminder, the Transit Security Administration, the TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement
for the public transportation until September 13, 2021. The federal mask requirement states that
individuals must wear a face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation, to include
airports, aircraft, train stations and trains, bus stops, and buses.
This evening, we have no retiree awards to announce at this time. It is now time for our public
participation. If anybody would like to address the Board, as is our custom, we will allow our elected
officials present to speak first. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your
virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are
dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to
be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing and you will not have the
opportunity to speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board,
please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address, board.office@rtddenver.com. Let me say that again, board.office@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any comments or responses. Directors or staff make contact
speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers
should begin their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have three minutes to speak.
Speakers, please refrain from profane or obscene speech and direct your comments to the Board as the
whole and refrain from personal attacks.
Mr. McKay, do we have anyone in the queue?
JOHN MCKAY: Chair, I do not see anybody at the moment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Seeing no one in the queue, we will close the public participation at this
time.
OK. The committee meetings were included in the Board packet.
JOHN MCKAY: Chair, I'm sorry, this is John McKay. We do actually have one hand that just went up at
the very last moment. I see Silvina Magda is on the line.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Ms. Magda, you have three minutes, please.

JOHN MCKAY: Ms. Magda, you'll want to hit star 6 on your phone in order to speak.
SILVINA MAGDA: Am I coming in clearly?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You are.
SILVINA MAGDA: Well, great. This is my first time participating. I was under the impression that I was
going to be listening and asking questions later. I did not know that the participation was going to be
closed. So I raised my hand to ask if I could participate later as I listen, if any issues come up. I have
things, I want to ask several questions, I just don't know if they're appropriate at this time, since the
meeting hasn't started.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. Magda, this is your time to speak to the Board. So you do have three
minutes right now to bring up any questions or issues. We will not respond. But because we have your
name, and we can respond to you at a later time.
SILVINA MAGDA: Oh, OK. So I've been contacting Lynn. She is my Boulder representative. And I'm a
resident of the Orchard Creek neighborhood in the city of Boulder. And I represent my community right
now in the concerns we have regarding the lack of transportation in our neighborhood.
For the 20 years we have lived in this community, which is part of the city of Boulder, we have had access
to schools, medical facilities, the Justice Center, and our workplaces through the 205T and the J bus. At
this time, because these two routes have been discontinued, that I understand due to the pandemic, we
are very concerned that we haven't gotten them back. And at this point, our community is being
completely isolated. Our kids right now that go to Boulder High, which is our home school, do not have
access to the school. We do not have access to summer school programs. We do not have access to
daycare facilities. And very, very importantly, we do not have access to the Justice Center.
This is-- and I'm sorry. This is unacceptable on this time. Our members should-- everybody in this
community should have equitable and fair access to justice, schools, and the workplace without the
requirement of having a car. Not everybody has the financial ability to have a car. And there are many
families in this community that do not have cars, or do not have one car per person, who have been
severely affected by the lack of transportation at this time. I am a Justice Center worker who at this time
cannot access my workplace. I am required to go back in person right now. And I do not have a way to
get there. I've depending on this bus for the past 20 years. And right now, I'm risking losing my job
because I cannot-- or taking an Uber, which is financially not very sensible at this time.
So I please am asking the Board to please ask the service staff to reconsider or please demand that we
get back our transportation. Our college students at this time cannot access, do not have access to the
University, to CU Boulder at this time. They are required to travel by car. And that is not realistic at this
time. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. Magda. Mr. McKay, is there anyone else in the queue?
JOHN MCKAY: That is the only hand and you are clear to proceed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. OK. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the
public participation period at this time.
Any corrections from Directors? Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will
become part of the permanent record.
I'd like to turn it over now to General Manager Oversight and Performance Committee update. Secretary
Buzek, would you please give us an update on the work of the General Manager's Oversight Committee?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, this is typically a busy time of the year for the GMOC,
preparing for evaluation of the General Manager by year end. This year is particularly busy, in that we
have undertaken the task of a monumental change to the process. That process is moving along and the
GMOC is working steadily to make this happen.
We do have a meeting coming up this Thursday at 3:00 PM, at which we are going to have a couple of
action items coming out of that meeting. And the next meeting of the GMOC will be July 8. And after that
meeting, the intent is that the GMOC presents to the full Board the entire performance package metric
and mechanism start to finish.
So I invite all members of the Board, not just the GMOC members, to please participate in these GMOC
meetings, these next couple of meetings, because your input will be invaluable and necessary. So we're
also going to be, at this coming meeting, doing what we did last time with a buddy system, where we're
going to assign buddies to GMOC members to call, for any of you that can't make the meetings, we're
going to call and let you know what's going on, keep you advised, and take any questions that you may
have.
So that's where we're at. And I thank all of the members of the GMOC that are here today, and keep up
the good, hard work. Thanks. That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
Next is the approval of the Board meeting minutes for May 11, 2021. May I please have a motion to
approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting on May 11, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Director Tisdale.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I have a movement of Director Williams and a second of Director
Tisdale. Unless there's any discussion—
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
TROY WHITMORE: This is Director Whitmore. I'll be abstaining from voting on the minutes of both
meetings of committees on June 8, since I was out of town and not in attendance. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. We're going to proceed with a voice vote. Are there any
no votes on the approval of the Board minutes? Hearing none, Ms. McManus, I have 13 yes, one
abstention, and one absent. Is that correct? Is that what you have?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I do.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
I'd like now to call on our General Manager for her report. General Manager Johnson, please share with
us your report this evening.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you, Madam Chair. And good evening to you, Board members and to all
who are virtually assembled. I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO of the Regional
Transportation District.
As part of my General Manager report, I will brief you on the following topics, our COVID-19 related
matters, including vaccination rates and agency response and protocols, Denver Union Station safety and
efforts, the RAISE grant application for Northwest Rail study, Colfax bus rapid transit project, and the
Major League Baseball All-Star Game planning which we've undertaken.
So regarding the agency's overall vaccination levels, there has been a slight increase of 13% since my
report last month. RTD's workforce reporting completion of the first inoculation is 73% of RTD's 2,652
employees, or 1,982 people. This data is based on the incentives paid as of June 15, 2021, as well as
prior scheduled on-site vaccination events.
Vaccination rates have been slow both locally and nationally, and with respect, the metro area
vaccination rates. As of Sunday June 20, 69% of people in the RTD service area over the age of 12 have
received at least one dose of the vaccine and 64% are fully vaccinated. Nationwide, 45% of the US
population over 12 years of age is fully vaccinated per the Centers for Disease Control.
The COVID-19 Delta variant, labeled as a variant of concern by the CDC, is more contagious, and
potentially more dangerous to young people and children, is becoming the dominant strain in the United

States. The seven-day moving average for 100,000 people in the RTD service area is now 36 cases.
Positive cases continue to decrease. And are currently at the lower limit of the COVID dial's blue level.
While the Memorial Day holiday created an increase in the positive case rate for a period of one week,
cases begin dropping again just last Friday, June 18. Per the adopted RTD pandemic recovery matrix, the
seven-day moving average of positive cases for 100,000 people must be decreasing for 14 consecutive
days prior to re-evaluating a move to the next phase of the recovery.
So due to the upcoming Independence Day holiday weekend, RTD, meaning I and members of my team,
will delay the re-evaluation of the recovery matrix status until July 15, 2021 to ensure there is no
widespread transmission due to holiday activities. Amended jurisdictional health orders may be coming by
July 1. And for the immediate future, agency mandates regarding the mask will remain in place. It's
imperative that as an agency we proceed cautiously but optimistically toward a time when such rules can
be relaxed, which, if things go according to plan, could be by mid-July.
As the Board is aware, the American Public Transportation Association, i.e. APTA's, peer review panel
that assessed the agency's security model issued its recommendations to us just last month. And, well,
they were presented earlier this month but were provided late last month. So the panel found Denver
Union Station, as you may recall, to be an area of particular concern and has come to be frequented by
large numbers of non-destination customers and individuals experiencing homelessness, and some will
become disruptive and even hostile to other customers in the surrounding businesses and residences.
Prior to the completion of the peer review, I requested a task force be leveraged to assist RTD in
addressing these concerns with support from a myriad of different entities, including Continuum
Management, area homeowners association management, including East-West Partners, Central Platte
Valley Metro district, as well as the Denver Downtown Partnership, the Denver Business Improvement
District, Denver Health, the City of Denver agencies, such as the Mayor's office, Public Safety, the police
department, the Department of Public Health and Environment, Department of Housing Instability, the
City Attorney's office, as well as the Mental Health Center of Denver.
Several initiatives are being finalized to mitigate the less than desirable activity in and around Union
Station, such as, but not limited to, illuminating the Chestnut and Wewatta Pavilion entrances and plaza
area, creating neighborhood watch groups, developing and coordinating community

service

representative programs, and coordinating services for people experiencing homelessness, mental
illness, and substance abuse. Moreover, last week, as relating to the APTA peer review
recommendations we all heard, I convened a cost matrix team, of which I attended as well, composed of
key RTD leaders as well as ATU leadership, and Chief Wanda Dunham, formerly of the MARTA police
department in Metropolitan Atlanta, who served as a peer review panelist, to work in tandem with us to
prioritize and address the per review's recommendation. I will update the Board on an ongoing basis
regarding the progress of this cost matrix team's efforts.

Now I'd like to share with you some information pertaining to some federal discretionary funding that we
are going to seek as an agency. And that is a RAISE grant, which is an application we intend to make to
the US Department of Transportation for funding to assist RTD in completing the planning and
environmental linkages study for the Northwest Rail corridor discussed with all of you at our April Board
meeting. Now RAISE is an acronym, and it stands for Rebuilding America Infrastructure with
Sustainability and Equity. And you may recall those of you that have been on the Board, formerly known
grants such as the TIGER and BILL grants that are discretionary programs that we leveraged here at this
agency as well. Applications are due July 12, and there is a total of $1 billion available nationwide, with a
pool of $30 million set aside for planning grants, of which we would be pursuing a planning grant.
RTD's partners along the Northwest Rail Corridor have urged RTD to preserve local sales tax funding and
leverage federal funding whenever possible to support our study with the Northwest Rail Corridor. This
step aligns with the commitment I've made to all of you, as well as to work collectively and cooperatively
with the Corridor stakeholders, as well as Governor Polis' office, Congressman Neguse, and the
Northwest Mayors and Commissions Coalition to move forward with the Northwest Rail Corridor and
establish firm estimates for the project. It gets back to what I've been saying, having a common set of
facts as we make decisions.
I would also like to express my sincere appreciation to Congressman Joe Neguse for submitting a letter of
support for RTD's application to the United States Department of Transportation for this needed funding. I
believe you join me in reference to saying that we look forward to working with our regional partners,
including the Governor's office and Congressman Neguse, to strongly advocate for consideration of the
federal government for the 2021 RAISE application, of which we intend to submit in the next couple of
weeks.
Now I'd like to turn quickly to the Colfax Bus Rapid Transit Project. RTD is partnering with the CITY and
County of Denver, the Federal Transit Administration, as well as the Colorado Department of
Transportation and the Denver Regional Council of Governments to move this project forward. Through
this partnership, the first successful arterial BRT project in the Metro region can be constructed. The City
and County of Denver is not a current FTA direct recipient, so RTD will serve as the sponsoring agency
with FTA and will undertake work in pursuit of funding for the project. An application to enter into a small
starts project development is anticipated later this summer. During the August 6 Planning and Capital
Programs and FasTracks Committee meeting, a discussion item will be brought forward regarding the
Colfax BRT project.
And last but not least, I'd like to touch upon the Major League Baseball All-Star Game planning. As you all
know, the City and County of Denver will be hosting the All-Star Game, as well as supporting events,
beginning Friday, July 9 continuing through the weekend and culminating with the actual All-Star Game
on Tuesday, July 13. Larger customer volumes are expected from the airport during the week and
weekend before the game. So that means the people will be utilizing the A Line. The heaviest volume is
expected for the actual All-Star Game itself, in addition to post-game service. And the Home Run Derby
should also bring large crowds.

So what we do know from our interaction and engagement with our partners here and around the City
and County of Denver is that guest shuttles will be provided by private charter companies to transport
baseball players, their families, and executives staying in downtown hotels, and they will provide service
between the various event venues. No RTD employees or equipment will be used for the MLB guest
shuttles. And those guest shuttles, we don't anticipate to impact RTD operations.
The only event that will cost detours for our bus operations is the 5K and 1K run/walk event on Saturday
the 10th. And those same road closures are those that are standard during the Rockies home games.
And so we are quickly adept at pivoting and know how to handle that aspect.
So with that information, Madam Chair, that completes my report and I thank you very much for all of your
attention.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam General Manager. OK.
This evening, there are four items on the unanimous consent agenda. They are listed under item 11 as
actions A through D, and they are system advertising contract, Access-A-Ride, or Access-A-Cab
program, the 2020 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, or the ACFR, and the approval of amended
and restated RTD Defined Contribution Plan. If anyone has a change to or questions on one of these
items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this time and we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the
unanimous consent agenda for consideration under Recommended Action.
VINCE BUZEK: Move to approve the consent agenda.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have Director Davidson, hand up.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Madam Chair, just a logistical question. I need to abstain from one of the items on the
unanimous consent as I did in the committee. Can we do that through unanimous consent or vote
separately?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to call on the General Counsel for advice from this piece.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Yes, Director
Davidson, if you just want to note for the record right now that you're abstaining and note which item it is
on the consent agenda, we'll note that for the record and then your vote [INAUDIBLE] be included with
respect to that item.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you. Sorry for the complexity. I'll just note for the record that I am
abstaining due to conflict of interest on the system advertising contract.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Rosenthal.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sorry, Madam Chair, my screen went blank. I have no questions at this time. I
believe that Director Dishell has just joined us. I believe he has a hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just wanted to note for the record that I am here, and I
believe, if General Counsel approves, able to vote on these matters.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And General Counsel, I believe that's correct information. Is that correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that's correct. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Director Dishell, you are able to vote on the consent agenda, or the
unanimous consent agenda. OK. I am not hearing anything else to be pulled, so I will call for any no
votes. I do have noted that Director Davidson would like to be an abstention from-- and I cannot, sir, I
cannot remember which one.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Item A, the system advertising contract.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Ms. McManus, if you could duly note that, I would be so appreciative.
MELANIE SNYDER: And Madam Chair, I don't believe we've had a vote-- pardon me, a motion and a
second. [INAUDIBLE].
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Rosenthal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Here we go.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I have a movement of Director Rosenthal, with second of Second
Vice Chair Cook. Are there any no votes? Hearing none, we have just one abstention on the system
advertising contract from Director Davidson. OK. We're good to go. Thank you.
Next we have Old Business. Is there any old business to come before this Board this evening? Seeing
none-- oh, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Took me by surprise. I hadn't looked to see that Old Business was first. I just was
going to do my usual update on the Accountability Committee real quickly. It's coming to a close. The next
meeting is at 8:30 next Monday morning. But the agenda, we'll be reviewing the survey data, the public
comments they received, the equity assessments, and the draft final report. They'll be, I think, very close

to finalizing that report. There's an additional meeting on July 14, I believe, that does adopt the final
report.
I know that our General Manager and staff have started looking, because we're so close to the final. They
have started looking at the matters that we need to respond to and will be moving those forward pretty
quickly. We have 45 days to respond. We're going to try to, I believe, Ms. Johnson, I think, is going to try
to move, bring that to us sooner, so if we have a little time if we need it towards the end, and we'll get
those responses. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Van Meter, welcome.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair. I do have an item under Old Business. It's a discussion item
regarding Reimagine RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning. And I
have a brief presentation discussion item, as I just noted, on Reimagine RTD. It was contained in the
Board package. And I believe I'm screen sharing at this point. Is that correct?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You are. You are, sir.
BILL VAN METER: Wonderful. Now, there we go. So the presentation tonight is really intended to provide
the Board and others assembled the status and next steps for Reimagine RTD. And the three topics I'm
going to cover, briefly, include the system optimization plan, the mobility plan for the future, and public
engagement.
So the system optimization plan analyses last year helped inform our services and run boards in 2021.
And the focus on this component of the plan proceeding forward is now really on rebuilding service postCOVID. This spring, the consultant team started work on the mobility plan for the future and we have reengaged the Technical Working Group and Advisory Committee following the COVID hiatus last fall and
winter.
So turning the focus on the system optimization plan, the Reimagine team has been working to develop
recommendations pertaining to our system structure consistent with the Board adopted guiding principles
of mobility, equity, financial partnerships, workforce, and sustainability. So we're working to modify the
RTD family of services into market-based service categories and to identify opportunities to support
transfer hubs for connectivity between routes in these market categories, as well as focusing on priorities,
such as retaining clock-faced headways. That is service that is scheduled every 15 or 30 or 60 minutes,
for example, to keep our service predictable and easy for customers to remember. And to define
consistent minimum spans of service, that is when service starts and ends.

The teams also reached out to transit agencies to learn their approach to building back service postCOVID, focusing primarily on those who are also implementing comprehensive system redesigns. And we
have established a Reimagine RTD Working Subgroup to help think through rebuilding service. The
group will hold three or four meetings throughout the summer and will help inform our service rebuilding
process as it continues in 2022 and beyond, keeping those guiding principles front and center.
So we're also focusing on the mobility plan for the future element, and engaging the consultant team, the
Technical Working Group, and the Advisory Committee and others on the array of topics depicted on this
slide in dark blue. Recall that these analyses and discussions will be working toward laying out both a
fiscally constrained plan for RTD, acknowledging what can be achieved given our fiscal realities, as we
understand them, and also identifying a financially unconstrained plan to allow the public, our customers,
and stakeholders to understand our needs, potential priorities, and outcomes if more financial resources
are made available.
So to help set context for the future needs of the region, we're basing our analyses on the Denver
Regional Council of Governments projections contained in their Metro Vision Regional Transportation
Plan that was adopted earlier this year. DRCOG is projecting a 31% increase in regional population and a
70% increase in transit demand by the end of the year 2020. Reimagine will be developing and
recommending strategies to meet or exceed this demand, including a comprehensive approach to guide
investments.
So delving into our discussions with the TWG and AC meetings in May, the Technical Working Group and
Advisory Committee meetings in May, we laid out a core piece of the challenge, the DRCOG, Denver
Regional Council of Governments, projection of a 70% increase in ridership. And we asked a
straightforward question, do you support this target for RTD? You can see the bulk of the participants
support that target and feel it is achievable for RTD. That's the responses in blue. There were some who
responded they feel it's too low and they provided feedback on their perspectives, primarily focusing on
social equity and environmental interests, that is, getting people out of cars as a key means to address air
quality and greenhouse gas targets, given competing modes of travel and RTD's financial constraints.
We also discussed the topic of what role RTD should play in the provision of transportation services in the
future. So this slide reflects the feedback from the Working Group and the Advisory Committee as to their
perspective on whether our role should be more of one of an integrator of services provided by RTD and
other regional partner organizations or one of a full provider of services, potentially including bike and
scooter rentals, car share, and ride hailing. There was feedback regarding RTD staying in our lane as the
transit provider and integrator. There was interest from some in seeing RTD venture into the provision of
more alternative mode services and choices.
Additional feedback from the two Reimagine groups included a desire from many to see RTD provide
more service to achieve air quality and sustainability goals, recognition of financial constraints to
achieving these loftier goals, discussion of land use and regional densities that are not transit supportive,
strong interest in local government partnerships for first and last mile, and partnerships in a broader

sense to achieve service coordination between RTD and locally provided services to assure uniform
customer experience.
As I noted earlier, the mobility plan for the future in the coming months will be delving into several
additional important and interrelated topics, including those highlighted here. Future rail and bus facility
needs, that's rehabs, expansions, new facilities. RTD's district boundaries and our current and future
workforce challenges. These are a few examples of those items on the chart with the blue circles that
depicted the key topic areas for the mobility plan for the future.
I also want to provide an update regarding public engagement. Through our outreach efforts to date,
we've received over 1,000 comments which inform the guiding principles the Board established. The team
is promoting Reimagine RTD through various mechanisms and we're always looking for effective ways to
get the word out, a key one being the Reimagine pages on our website and referenced at the bottom of
this slide.
So here are some of the key themes we've heard over the past several months since we reinitiated our
active outreach and the study after the hiatus, including input regarding means to improve the quality of
service, various routes specific suggestions for expanding service, interest in completing FasTracks or
finding alternative investments to address service needs, feedback reinforcing the interest in better
serving historically marginalized populations and excluded areas of the region, and interest in revisiting
RTD's fare structure.
So we're moving forward and have a number of weighty issues, particularly under the mobility plan for the
future, that we'll be delving into in the coming months. That, Madam Chair and Board, concludes my
update. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any questions from Board members regarding that
presentation from Mr. Van Meter?
All right. Seeing none, thank you, sir. Oh, Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just want to say that I like the direction a lot of this is going. I think you're taking on
a lot of the issues that we hear from the Accountability Committee and others out there in terms of the
boundaries, the workforce, zero emission vehicle transition. You know, coming back after COVID. I like
the idea of the Working Group. So I appreciate where you're going on it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Is there a timetable for all of these items going forward?
BILL VAN METER: Madam Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager Planning.

Director Broom-- yes, thank you. Director Broom, the timetable is to substantially wrap up our analyses
and recommendations and dialogue with the public and our committees to substantially finish that work by
the end of 2021. And so the next several months we will be delving into a number of issues and reporting
back to you and looking for your direction, and then adoption of recommendations and final Board review
in early 2022.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. One item that I didn't see in this was the state has opened up the field of using
fees for transportation. And so I think we should look at what fee income might be available for RTD to
carry out its plans. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. I saw Director Cook's hand up, but I see Director Williams.
So I'm going to go ahead with Director Cook, and then I'll go to you, Director Williams. And then Director
Lewis, your hand was up and now it's down. Are you wanting to be in the queue?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. But I would like to hear the answer for Director Broom's question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: We do have financial constraints, financial projections, and financial opportunities
included in the scope of work. I would have to kind of check back, and that's my note to myself and
commitment to the Board to do that, regarding how deeply we can delve into the issues and opportunities
that fees specifically add. It's not something that we had specifically identified as opportunities or things to
explore. But I'll get a more complete and better answer to the Board when I consult back with the team.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, if I may address that just in a holistic fashion.
Director Broom and I have had a conversation about fees, just in general terms, in reference to leveraging
that going forward. I think it's a broader discussion. It spans outside of Reimagine RTD. So as we look at
it in a sense of having conversations, I have preliminarily with our Chief Financial Officer, Doug MacLeod,
it's something that we need to look at from the Board perspective, leveraging different funding options.
And I think it would be germane to have that conversation as we look at the Board budget development
process holistically to speak about it in general terms as opposed to specific to Reimagine RTD. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Broom, does that answer your question for
now?
BOB BROOM: Yes, it does for now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Second Vice Chair Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: A quick question, then a comment. Bill, can you give us an example of a travel market
based, the category that you're talking about reorganizing around?
BILL VAN METER: Sure. So it could be-- and in fact, what we're talking about, and the names that I'm
going to use aren't finalized yet-- but community-based type services. So those services that are focused
on local routes, FlexRide, partnerships with local jurisdictions to improve first and last mile access.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, I saw that. yeah, OK.
BILL VAN METER: --connectivity. Yeah. But I'll just quickly round it out to answer the question for those
who haven't heard the full-- connectivity, so those local routes that provide moderate levels of service,
Sky Ride, all-day regional routes, those that we call convenience, so far-- and we're working on better
names for these-- convenience routes, rail lines, Flatiron Flyer, the Bus Rapid Transit lines that provide
high frequency, very convenient service, and commuter oriented routes, AM/PM peak on weekdays. So
classifications in those general categories, with names TBD.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks for-- that clarifies that. And then I would just offer the statement that I
listened to the Reimagine meeting that Kate Williams had suggested to us. And I agree with Kate
Williams that we want to be a little bit more aspirational, I guess, in terms of how we identify what we
need to do by 2050.
And the second thing is, Claire Levy had also made comments along those lines, saying why not, instead
of just identifying what you think will be demand, how about starting from where we think we want to be,
given all the needs at the agency and region, and then working back from there. And I thought that made
some sense as well. So thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Williams is actually ahead of me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Actually, I had you down first. But OK. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm not going to throw the ball back. Thanks, Shontel.
I just want to thank the staff and the consultants for the work that they are doing, trying to make the most
out of what really is an amazing brain trust. The people who have committed themselves to the Advisory
Council and to the Technical Working Group really have a lot of influence in our community. They are
people who care about their constituents, our riders, and they are trying very hard and have stuck with

this for some time now. So I would like to thank all of them for the work that they've done and, as Director
Cook said, to ask them to really, really think about where we want to go in the future. And I'd like to Thank
Mr. Van Meter and his team for their work.
That's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions regarding this presentation. And the
first one comes from packet page 294, from the loss of ridership as a result of COVID. And at least it
looks like the ridership isn't climbing significantly, at least not back to where it was. And I'm curious, is this
process going to include any discussion of a change to our service standards as we're going through this
journey.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: We will be working with Service Development to look at our service standards and
how we adapt them to these new family of services. And I think of necessity, we will also need to look at
kind of the new normal and post-pandemic and take into considerations the impacts. The routes that
continued to perform very well through the pandemic, where ridership has remained high, serving many
social equity populations and Title VI EJ populations, those routes. And I think we'll need to reconsider
and revisit that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Was that the end of your sentence? I'm sorry.
BILL VAN METER: Yes, it was. Sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK. It's OK. OK, thank you.
BILL VAN METER: It felt like I left it hanging, didn't it? But yeah, that was—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, it did, a little.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just a little bit. All right.
And then in terms of the outreach and engagement, did you say that that was an ongoing effort or was
that-- the slide where it says you had over 1,000 comments, I think it said, if that was pretty much the
conclusion of a public engagement or we anticipate that there will be additional opportunities to engage
the public outside of those working groups.
BILL VAN METER: Indeed. This is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. And the answer is yeah, we intend to
continue-- not intend to, we will continue our outreach efforts. They will be redoubled as we move along

and have less restrictions because of the pandemic, anticipate the capability for more in-person dialogue
and meetings as we move along. But a key resource that we are definitely still trying to drive people to to
inform them, as well as for input and to inform us, is through our website page that was identified on that
site.
So that's a key piece at this moment, but we're doing a number of other outreach efforts as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. And then just a follow-up to that question. On packet page 320 it says,
discussion of future scenarios and preliminary evaluation of strategies. I guess I'm curious as to what that
might look like in terms of receiving-- one, that discussion, but receiving feedback, meaningful feedback,
on future scenarios more specifically.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, I am too.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
BILL VAN METER: So the team. The team is taking feedback from the Technical Working Group and
Advisory Committee in terms of those stretch goals that Director Williams discussed, in terms of the
spectrum that I presented, in terms of RTD staying in its lane and being a transit provider or an integrator
of other services, towards being a more robust integrator, towards investments that exceed our financial
capacity or look at the alternative, if our financial resources do not spring back because lower ridership
and fare revenues and other impacts, what do those constraints and those scenarios look like in terms of
outcomes? Outcomes to our customers, outcomes to air quality, outcomes to regional goals and the
Board guiding principles.
And so we're trying to set some alternative scenarios that show the good and the bad, if we head in those
directions, in terms of some [INAUDIBLE] metrics and measures.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. And then that will be replicated in some ways on the website for the general
public to participate in or to give feedback in some way?
BILL VAN METER: We'll have to figure out a way to provide what those scenarios look like, what the
metrics are and to gain meaningful feedback. That's the intent.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. And my final question is from packet page 320. It says, rebuilding service
subgroups by June to be determined. Is that still being determined, or is that determined?
BILL VAN METER: We asked Advisory Committee and Technical Working Group members to nominate
either themselves or qualified staff people. Many of them work and have staff people to represent them
on this Working Group. We didn't have a firm set number of people. We're in the 20-some folks who
volunteered to meet three or four times. The first meeting is set. It's set for sometime next week. And I
apologize, you've caught me flatfooted on that one.

SHONTEL LEWIS: It's fine. Don't worry about it. I could look it up. I was just curious.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Well, thank you so much. I appreciate the work on this and the work with the
committees, the Technical Working Group and the staff. I'm quite excited about it. And I'm quite excited to
see what might become of this process. So thank you for all the work you all are doing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Does that conclude your comments and
questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, ma'am, they do. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I guess I'd like to build on some of the comments
made by other Directors and not particularly about using the word aspirational and where are we going
sort of big picture, and just want to make sure that besides things like all-electric fleet, things like that, but
ideas such as should we do a Metro? Should we have gondolas? Should we have autonomous vehicles?
Things that maybe work in other cities and other regions that we might be able to incorporate into future
plans. And I totally understand the fiscal restraints and things like that, but also that as we grow
somewhat in sort of the core of the District, but I think as the presentation said, also we might see greater
growth outside of the District, and then should we try to address that to try to bring in new parts to the
District, things like that. But also, as I said, bigger picture items, would like to make sure that they are sort
of included as well.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you for that feedback.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Rosenthal, does that conclude your comments?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, it does. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much, Mr. Van Meter. I would just have a couple of
comments.
The first one is, I want to congratulate the Reimagine group in getting 1,000 comments. Because when I
looked at the Accountability Committee, they got 391 survey results. And I [INAUDIBLE] have a question
about if you know, by any [INAUDIBLE], Accountability Committee, is there any kind of on both
committees, do you know, Mr. Van Meter?

BILL VAN METER: I'm sorry, Chair, you broke up on my end and I really didn't get the gist of your
question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm going to take off my camera. Can you hear me now?
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I asked-- so you have 1,000 comments, which is great. I'm wondering if
there are any members on the Reimagine committee that are also members of the Accountability
Committee, to your knowledge.
BILL VAN METER: I believe there is some overlap, yeah. I'd have to get back to you on the specific
names. I'd be afraid I'd leave someone out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, sir. I was just asking. But it would be interesting to know.
Thank you.
I'm not seeing anyone else in the queue for any Old Business. So I'll ask again, is there anyone who
would like to speak on old business? Seeing none, New Business. Is there anyone who would like to
speak new business? Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So with the expiration of the contract on the University of
Colorado A Line, have we received any interests in possible sponsorships of the A Line? And how does
that bidding process take place in order to sort of throw that out to the fishes again? Because as you
know, that's an important source of revenue as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct. Ms. Tonilas, I see you on the line. Would you like to respond?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you for the question,
Director Rosenthal.
We have had some interest. We're following up on one firm that we actually have gotten a lead from. And
then we're coming up with our own ideas of what would be a natural fit for a partnership along that
corridor. And so we will definitely keep the Board apprised. As I reported to the Board previously, the
current contract goes through May, 2022. So we have less than a year now. And we are going to make it
a priority to try to find another partner, not only on just the A Line but on our other facilities as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good. Director Rosenthal, does that answer your questions?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, it does. And as you can imagine, we've been hearing some possible names for
it, like Bluestang like Evilstang and things like that line.

PAULETTA TONILAS: They'll be allowed in my [INAUDIBLE].
PAUL ROSENTHAL: --proposals as well. But anyway, good luck. You [INAUDIBLE] on that.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to make a quick announcement about a
partnership that been working on with COVID Check Colorado, the Denver Health, the Denver Public
Health, Mile High Connects, Colorado Access, and the state of Colorado, our governor's office, to provide
vaccines, mobile clinics, at our RTD stops and Park-N-Rides. And so very excited that tomorrow is going
to be the first vaccination site at two locations, in Chair Rivera-Malpiede's district, on Decatur and
Federal, and then also on Colfax and Havana, where Director Kate Williams and I share some
constituents.
Just wanted to make that announcement. We're hoping that in this partnership, we're using it as a pilot,
that it opens the door for us to expand throughout the region to provide vaccine access to the folks who
utilize our services in the near future. And so if y'all would like to hear more about it, I'm more than happy
to discuss with you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Congratulations, Director Lewis. That's an amazing partnership, particularly
in light of the fact that the number of people taking vaccines has dropped and it's becoming an area of
concern for the whole region. So congratulations.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there anyone else who wants to [INAUDIBLE]
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry. I was just saying, General Manager Johnson and her staff have just been
incredibly easy to work with. When we brought it to the attention of staff, they were so open and willing
and available in terms of their resources, their expertise and their time to make it happen. And so I thank
you, General Manager Johnson and your staff, for always getting things done, no matter how small or big
the task is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis, for acknowledging our General Manager.
Is there any new business, other new business to come before the Board? Seeing none, I would be
remiss if I didn't say, on behalf of the RTD Board of Directors and the agency of the Regional
Transportation District, that we would all like to collectively extend our deepest condolences to the city of
Arvada for the senseless actions that have caused three lives. And Second Vice Chair Cook, I just want

to let you know that we are so saddened by this. It's unfortunate that this seems to be a regular
occurrence. But just wanted to let you know that you are all in our thoughts and prayers.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll relay that, and I know it's deeply appreciated. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. Seeing no other business before us in the Board meeting, I
will now entertain a motion to adjourn the meeting. Do I have a motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved, Director Lewis.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, who was second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Bouquet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's what I thought. For a minute, I thought you guys just wanted to stay
on and hang on for this. OK, I have a movement of Director Lewis, a second of Director Bouquet. Are
there any no votes to adjourn? Hearing none, I'm adjourning at 6:34 PM. Ladies and gentlemen, have a
wonderful evening and thank you for joining us.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Take care.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good night.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Good evening.

