1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Bobby Dishell, District D
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Troy Whitmore, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Finance and Planning Committee
Tuesday, March 7, 2023
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 880 0835 0159#
Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Finance and Planning Committee
Chaired by Doug Tisdale

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Information from External Entities
D. Recommended Actions

• Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis Contract Amendment

E. Discussion Items
F. Other Matters
G. Next Meeting Date: Tuesday, April 11, 2023
H. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis Contract
Amendment

March 7, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
March 28, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO), or her designee, to
execute a third amendment to the contract with Four Nines Technologies (Four Nines) to facilitate the
completion and implementation of the Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis (Study) in the amount
of $435,000, increasing the total amount not to exceed from $1,603,540 to $2,038,540.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities
Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager
Carl Green Jr., Director, Civil Rights Division
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
On November 16, 2021, the Board of Directors authorized the GM/CEO to enter a contract with Four
Nines to facilitate the Study. The original contract amount was for $1,503,000. In January 2022, the
GM/CEO executed a first amendment to update the RTD project manager identified in the contract, as
well as Four Nines’ key personnel and rate. In December 2022, the GM/CEO executed a second
amendment in the amount of $100,540 to account for enhanced customer and community outreach
during the first two engagement milestones of the project.
Four Nines has completed a significant amount of work on the Study. Three rounds of customer and
community engagement have been completed with extensive efforts to reach customers and community
members in a variety of ways, including:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Virtual community meetings
Stakeholder feedback panels
Pop up events at RTD facilities
Two extensive online surveys
A project website in both English and Spanish
A second project website focused on detailed information about conceptual alternatives in both
English and Spanish
• Continuous social media presence throughout the Study

Packet Pg. 3

1.D.1

Extensive research and analysis have been conducted on RTD’s current fare structure, fare structures
from other transit agencies in North America, and on potential changes to RTD’s fare structure to
respond to customer and community feedback. The remaining tasks in the scope of work are focused
on recommending and reviewing potential fare changes for consideration by the RTD Board, customers,
and stakeholders.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this recommended action, the agency seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities
of Community Value and Customer Excellence. The purpose of this action is to ensure the successful
completion of the Study.
The Scope of Work for the proposed contract amendment is comprised of three components:
• Schedule Extension
• Enhanced Scope Items
• Additional Scope Items
Schedule Extension
The original Study schedule anticipated completion in April 2023. The schedule has been extended three
months through July 2023, to enable additional customer and community outreach (beyond what was
initially anticipated), sufficient time for Board review, and additional fare structure technical analysis.
This extension requires additional consultant resources for project management, coordination and
extended maintenance of outreach communications through the project websites and other community
engagement tools. The cost of this schedule extension is $195,000.
Enhanced Scope Items Based on Existing Contract Scope
Enhanced scope items are required over and above what was anticipated in the original scope of work as
well as the second scope amendment that occurred earlier in the project. These additional scope items
were requested by staff to maintain RTD’s commitment to strong customer and community engagement.
There are several areas where additional scope has been completed or will be completed including:
Extended Customer and Community Outreach
• Website development and support – to support the communication and outreach efforts for the
third phase of engagement (Evaluating Fare Alternatives, Benefits and Tradeoffs) a separate
website was developed by the consultant. This was in addition to the project website that was
developed earlier in project and served to communicate detailed information about fare study
alternatives. This website was developed in both English and Spanish and was enhanced by
extensive messaging and communication through social media. This website will continue to be
utilized during the fourth phase of engagement.
•

Additional community meetings and outreach for final phase of project – the current scope for the
final phase (Recommendation of Fare Structure Changes) of project only includes outreach
through formal public hearings. This project established a high standard for outreach through
multiple means ranging from customer and community meetings, social media, online information,

Packet Pg. 4

1.D.1

and community-based organization facilitation and outreach. To continue this high standard of
outreach, it is necessary to add consultant resources.
Additional Fare Modeling and Analysis
Additional fare modeling and analysis is anticipated to support the final development of a recommended
alternative. Feedback during the final phase of the project from customers and community members, as
well as the Board, is expected to require additional modeling and analysis support not originally
anticipated in the original scope of work. These efforts will be used to evaluate and respond to specific
ideas that could be raised during the final phase of the project. The cost for enhanced scope items under
the current contract scope is $190,000.
Additional Scope Items Outside of the Existing Contract Scope
Additional work is anticipated that was not identified in the current scope of work. Specifically, it is
anticipated that staff will require consultant support to implement the recommendations of the Study.
With limited resources and capacity of current staff, consultant support to develop refinements on the
to-be adopted fare study recommendations will be critical for efficient implementation and delivery. The
cost of this work is $50,000.
Summary of Contract Amendment
The costs for the enhanced and additional scope are summarized below:
Schedule Extension
$195,000
Enhanced Scope Items
$190,000
Additional Scope Items
$50,000
Total:
$435,000
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This action will require a commitment of $435,000 derived from a combination of unallocated Study
funds ($221,586.14), as originally approved in the 2021 Budget, and the Unrestricted Fund
($213,413.86).

Prepared by:
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.D.1

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 6

