Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 6,
2011
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

September 7, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 6, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Directors Anderson, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer, and Tobiassen.

Directors Kemp, O’Boyle, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Mark Baudermann, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin
Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Brian Middleton, Andy
Mutz, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard Rost, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil
Washington, and Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Jeff Walker, Debra Wilson – CAC, Bob Wilson, Tom Wootten – Alameda
Station LLC.
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 7:55 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Boulder Junction – Design/Build Contract Award
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to award the development
of the Boulder Junction TOD Project (the “Project”) to the successful design/build team
of Adolfson & Peterson Construction and Pedersen Development Company, including
award of design/build contract to Adolfson & Pedersen, in an amount not to exceed
$7,145,816 and authority to negotiate and execute all additional documents necessary
for the development of the Project, including transfer of interests in the property.
Funding for this project is included in the 2011 Amended Budget for the City of
Boulder/RTD intermodal Facility Project.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 6,
2011
Page 2 of 3

Bill Sirois noted that this project began when we applied for and were awarded a
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Grant with the City of Boulder in 2003. The
intended build out of the site includes an underground bus facility, affordable housing
and a parking structure.
Director Malpiede highlighted that she was pleased to see the 16% DBE requirement
was exceeded to 24%.
Director Tobiassen noted that if this is a Transit Oriented Development, the site plans
show parking lots but do not show a lot of connectivity. Bill Sirois explained that the
bus facility will be underground, and there will be a plaza space.
Director Hoy asked if the 71 housing units will all be labeled as affordable housing. Bill
Sirois indicated that they will all be affordable housing units.
Director Tayer added that going through Boulder process can be a challenge and what
we ended up with was an excellent result and something that reflects very positive on
RTD. We are adding affordable housing, economic development and historic
preservation. This represents the power of our transit investments to drive development
in this region. This will create a walk-able, highly residential and affordable community.
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the September
20, 2011 full Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously. Directors
Kemp, O’Boyle, and Riley were absent from
this vote.

II. Updates
 Alameda Site
Bill Sirois explained that RTD has met with Alameda LLC several times over the past
few months. And we believe they have met the milestones that the Board set back in
July. Progress has been made with Greyhound, and we have seen Alameda LLC garner
letters of interest from retailers and lenders. Also, DURA has been involved in this
project from the beginning and they will soon be completing their underwriting process.
Director Tobiassen inquired if there are any milestones that have not been met, or will
not be met. Bill Sirois noted that all milestones have been acknowledged and met.
Tom Wootten thanked the Board for the opportunity to pursue this project and the
partnership between Alameda LLC, RTD and Greyhound and the very exciting retailer

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 6,
2011
Page 3 of 3

possibilities for this particular location.
III. Other Matters
None
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for October
11, 2011.
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m.

