Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday April 14, 2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 14,
2009 in Rooms R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Chair Tayer, Vice-Chair James, Director Bagley, Director Brohl, Director Busck, Director
Chacon, Director Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director Kemp, Director
Martinez, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bob Lewis, Terry Howerter, Phil Washington, Cal Marsella, Robert Merriman, Bruce
Abel, Scott Reed, Daria Serna Dave Genova, Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey, Bill Porter,
Errol Stevens, Caitlin Magee, Paula Perdue, John Tarbert, Susanne Henry, Carolyn
Conover, Larry Buter, Brian Matthews, John Pung, Tony McCaulay

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bruce Behncke (Veolia)

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:37 p.m.
I.

Recommended Actions
a. IT Consultant – Universe/Legacy Programmers (Exercise Third Year Option) – Bob Lewis
introduced this action item. This contract supports the Legacy system that the District is
working on retiring within the next twelve months. Until it is retired, the District needs
support to keep Legacy running. The contract is $100,000 less than the previous year due to
the reduction in the use of Legacy.
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise the third one year option in
the amount of $225,000 to extend the current contract for an IT Consultant-UniVerse/Legacy
Programmer (16DK001). This contract was originally awarded May 1st, 2006 to 5280 Solutions,
LLC (a WSCA company) through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial
year plus three one year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The third
one year option is to begin on May 1, 2009 and remain in effect for one year until April 30, 2010.
The contract is being brought to the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD
Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward this item onto

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday April 14, 2009
Page 2 of 4
the April 21, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.
Second:
Vote on
Motion:

II.

Director Christopher seconded the motion

The motion passed unanimously 14 – 0 (Director Cohen
arrived after the vote.)

February 2009 Financial Status Report - Robert Merriman gave this report. Ridership year to date is up
1.8% over last year. Total system-wide boardings represent a decrease of 2.2% compared to plan.
Mr. Merriman felt the ridership numbers were strong given the fare increase and difficult economic
situation. Sales and use tax is down 14.6% Year to Date. Declines were large due to factors including
the economic downturn, significant one-time taxpayer settlement adjustments and one fewer day in the
2009 year-to-date period since 2008 was a leap year. Had the tax-payer settlements and the leap-year
differential not occurred, February year-to-date would have decreased approximately 11.9% instead of
14.6%.
Mr. Merriman spoke about the difference in sales tax between the City of Denver and RTD with the
City of Denver not reporting as much of a decrease. Mr. Merriman summed it up by saying the District
has very different vendors, different buying habits. New car dealers in the RTD District were down
27.8% from February 2008, Building materials down 39.1%, restaurants down 10.5% and hotels
(except casinos) down 21.5%. All these areas impact the District’s sales and use tax revenue.
Regarding Operating revenues, the District is up 12.6% year to date. Fare revenue is up 12.2% but
4.9% below plan.
Expenses for the year to date period and the month of February 2009 are within budget.
Director Busck asked about other cities and what they are seeing in decreases in sales tax. How does
the District know that what we are getting from the state is the right amount? Terry Howerter
responded that we benchmark against the home rule cities. The home rule cities report to the
Comptroller’s office which is where our records are. The State reported that they are 16.2% down for
the month of February and the District is 16.3% which indicates we are tracking pretty closely with the
entire State. Mr. Howerter works closely with the City and County of Denver to analyze differences
and similarities in tax revenue to make sure there are no large discrepancies. The State does audits on
financial filings on a regular basis and the District depends on these audits to make sure we are getting
the right revenue.

III. Budget Update 2009 – Staff received two proposals for the RFP regarding analyzing sales tax
collection. The contract recommendation will come to the Board next month. Cal Marsella added that
the contract is performance based. The company gets a percentage of money that is recovered.
Mr. Howerter gave an update on the stimulus package. The District has put in all the grants for the
$72.8 million award, the next step is for DRCOG to finalize the projects which should happen on April
16, 2009 and then the FTA reviews the projects and milestones. The projects then go to the
Department of Labor for approval.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday April 14, 2009
Page 3 of 4
The RFP for the fareboxes is on the street. The four car platforms are being worked and getting
contracts started as well as beginning to look at the Queue Jump project.
Robert Merriman spoke about the Amended Budget that will come to the Board in June 2009. CLC’s
March sales tax figures are out and are indicating more favorably then December sales and use tax
figures. Staff feels that these numbers are too optimistic. Another variable that will impact the rest of
2009 will be the results of the Collective Bargaining agreement. Other factors that will affect the
budget are: further cost containment, minor service adjustments, grant revenue, and capital
expenditures.
Bill McMullen asked for an update on the contract negotiations with the Union. Cal Marsella said that an
arbitrator was awarded and opening statements will be April 22, 2009. A decision on the contract has
to be made by July 19, 2009.
Director Brohl asked about if the Union gets a salary increase is it retroactive? Cal Marsella said that it
depends on the arbitrator’s ruling.
Director Daly asked about the fuel price discussion. Staff is still looking at this and will be having a
discussion on this topic this week. Staff is looking at trying to lock fuel prices for 2010.

IV. Board 2010 Budget Strategy Session and 2010-2015 Transit Development Program – Robert Merriman
began this discussion. The key objectives for the 2010 budget will be fiscal management, service
levels, compensation structure, repair and maintenance of facilities, safety of facilities and equipment,
capital improvement policies. Cal Marsella said the TDP will have an annual presentation of priorities
but large capital investments are probably very limited.
Director Chacon asked for the Board to be involved in the budget process again as in 2008. Phil
Washington responded that there will be a Budget workshop on May 26, 2009 where staff will seek
the Board’s input.
Director Kemp wanted to see data analysis on hybrid buses and if it was possible to have more hybrid
buses instead of clean diesel. Mr. Marsella said when staff comes back for the next bus procurement,
they will include experiential based data on the hybrid buses.
Director Martinez asked about the increased bus service that is supposed to be part of the FasTracks
program; how is that going to be taking place? Cal Marsella said the FasTracks plan contains a 1%
service increase until 2015 and then 1.5% increase thereafter. ADA has taken up most of this service
increase. Director Martinez said the Board needs to see the progression of ADA service increases per
year.
Chair Tayer asked that at the budget study session could the Board look at models that other
communities have used in balancing out their funding portfolios (higher fares, property tax, etc.) so that
they are not so reliant on sales tax. He would like to see other models that could avoid the necessity
of cutting service. Also, Chair Tayer would like to see a commitment to environmental sustainability in
the District’s operations parameters.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday April 14, 2009
Page 4 of 4
Mr. Howerter reviewed the next steps on the TDP:
 Continue to review sales tax projections
 Review fuel swap options and report to Board (hoping to lock at $2/gallon)
 Review TDP departmental request
 Present TDP and Options to Finance Administration Committee May 12
 Request TDP approval
Director Christopher requested additional information. He would like to see a summary of sales and use
tax broken out by month for the last 12 months. Director Christopher would also like details on the
expansion of ADA service, specifically where has the sales tax that goes to expanded rubber tire
service under FasTracks gone. Director Christopher feels the Board needs to be more transparent in
letting the public know where the expansion of service has occurred. He would like to see these
figures for each year since the FasTracks vote.
Director Bagley and Director Brohl voiced concerns about how the May 2009 Service Changes left
some areas without transit service and how the Board needs to look at service cuts creatively.
Director Busck asked about call-n-Ride, he wants to see numbers of people that ride it, the amount of
grants that we’re getting separate from the cost. Some cities, call-n-Ride helps over fixed route
service but in some cities it might be an expensive taxi service and the money could be better invested
in other areas of the system.
V.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VI. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be May 12, 2009.
VII. Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting at 6:29 p.m.

