Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on June 11, 2007
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

June 13, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held
on June 11, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Dave Ruchman (Chair), Juanita Chacon, Bruce Daly, Daryl
Kinton, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, John Tayer, Barbara
Yamrick (via teleconference)
Staff Present:

Liz Rao, Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue, Bill Van Meter, Susan
Altes, Dennis Cole, Jennifer Heisler, John Shonsey, Cory
Granrud, Stan Szabelak, Ed Gonzales, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Michael Ellsberry (HuittZoliars), Randall Ritchey (Huitt-Zollars)
***

Call to Order:

Chair Ruchman called the meeting to order at 6:56 p.m.

I. Recommended Actions
a. West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals and Contract Amendment for the
Design and Costing of Approved or Agreed-Upon Items
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager, Planning and Development distributed a
revised Board report. There has been an agreement on the Sheridan Boulevard
overpass, Auraria Station realignment and drainage issues west of Decatur.
Action will be deferred until the July Planning and Development Committee
meeting regarding single track from Denver Federal Center to Jefferson
County Center and the drainage improvements at the Federal/Decatur station.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award contract amendments to the David Evans and Associates
(DEA) for $850,000 for these accepted Value Engineering items; Sheridan
Boulevard Light Rail Bridge/Overpass, Auraria Station Realignment, and
Drainage Redesign west of Decatur. It is also recommended by the Planning
and Development Committee that the RTD Board accepts the remaining VE

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on June 11, 2007
Page 2 of 6

proposals, Single Track Section from Denver Federal Center to Jefferson
County, single track tunnel at I-70, Drainage from east of Decatur to the
South Platte River, and the relocation of the Federal/Decatur Station and
directs staff to continue to work to resolution of the proposals with the
impacted jurisdictions; Jefferson County, the City and County of Denver and
the Urban Drainage and Flood Control District; to the maximum extent
possible that benefits the project. Funding for this amendment is available in
the FasTracks budget for the West Corridor.
Motion: Director Pulliam made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the June 19,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
Director McMullen asked about Sheridan Boulevard. The original plan called
for Sheridan Blvd to go over the light rail tracks. The Value Engineering
proposal called for the light rail to go over Sheridan and would have saved
$7.7 million. The community did not like this alternative and wanted the
original plan. Staff has worked with the City and County of Denver and
CDOT to look at access and traffic mitigation. They were able to come up
with a $3.5 million savings through access and relocation of Sheridan during
construction. City and County of Denver is contributing $3.5 million from
the park mitigation fund set aside in the EIS. The other $700,000 will be
made up through property sales in the area.
Director McMullen asked about drainage issues. Cal Marsella said that the
District can not “worsen” conditions when stations are built. The District
has submitted an alternative. The City and County is evaluating the
proposal.
Chair Ruchman asked if Urban Drainage has any concerns. Urban Drainage
has signed off on the minor drainage issues west of Decatur. Decatur issue
is still not resolved.
Liz Rao said that the Auraria Station plan is going back to original 65%
recommendation. Dennis Cole, Engineering Project Manager, said that the
plan is not going back to original which called for three track/four car
platforms. Instead the solution is for two track/three car platform. Cal
Marsella said that a compromise has been reached that works for all parties.
Director McMullen asked that since the Auraria West stop and Invesco are
so close together, will one stop be eliminated? Dennis Cole replied that the
new Auraria Station at Campus Village will be closed two hours before and

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on June 11, 2007
Page 3 of 6

after any major event at Invesco. Invesco station will not close as the
station would service new developments planned for the area.
Director Daly asked if the Jefferson County I-70 tunnel is still just one bore
for capacity. Will there never be double track? Cal Marsella responded that
RTD has tied the trigger for a double track to ridership totals. Ridership
increases will drive going from double car to triple to quad to then adding a
passing track to adding double track. Director Daly wanted to know if the
space was available to add additional track at a later time. Cal Marsella
responded that it is CDOT right of way that has already been negotiated in
an IGA.
Director Pulliam asked what is the delta difference between doing a double
bore now versus in the future. Cal Marsella responded the delta will be
determined by when the District does the construction. Four million dollar is
the delta to do double vs. single bore today.
Director Kinton asked for clarification on the Auraria stations. Cal Marsella
responded that the City, Auraria and the developer have all agreed to this
plan. The existing Auraria West station will be removed. There will be 825
feet between the Auraria station and Invesco Field station. There is no
additional cost to the District for these changes.


West Corridor Construction Manager General Contractor, Contract
Amendment for Consultation, Civil and Systems –
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to award contract amendments to The Denver Transit Construction
Group (DTCG), the Construction Manager General Contractor (CMGC) for the
West Corridor, in the amount of $ 182,000 for the extension of services
under Task Order 1, Consultation, Civil and Systems of their contract
16FFW01. The services under this extension include but are not limited to;
Development of a Best Value Request for Proposals for completion of systems
design that includes, procurement of system elements and installation of
systems elements, analysis of proposals and advise RTD on best direction for
systems procurement and installation; refinement of civil, bridge and tunnel
designs in conjunction the DEA design team with regard to the impacts of the
VE items Funding for this amendment is available in the FasTracks budget for
the West Corridor.
Motion: Director Pulliam made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the June 19,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on June 11, 2007
Page 4 of 6

the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
Liz Rao said this is a very small contract amendment in the amount of
$182,000.


Authorization for 60 Day Exclusive Negotiation Period for Transit Oriented
Development – Denver Federal Center – This item was pulled from the
agenda. The District was not able to get agreement from the City of
Lakewood.



On-Call Engineering & Design Services Contract, July 2007 through July 2012
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute
all documents necessary to award a contract to the most qualified proposer,
Huitt-Zollars, Inc, in the estimated not-to-exceed amount of $5,000,000 for
the On-Call Engineering & Design Services Contract. It will have a five-year
duration and be administered on an as-needed, work order basis. It is based
on the 2007-2012 projected TDP and currently budgeted projects.

Motion: Director Pulliam made a
motion to forward this item to
the full Board at the June 19,
2007 Board Meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
Cal Marsella said this contract works out to $1 million/year. In the past the
District has spent $650,000.
Director Chacon noted that the list of projects contained a number of park-nRides on the list and inquired why can’t the RTD internal staff perform this
work? Liz Rao and Stan Szabelak responded that the type of work required
utilizes equipment that is needed which the District does not have. In some
cases, the District does not have the amount of staff available so it becomes
cheaper and timelier to use a contractor.
Director Chacon asked if the District has something in place to see when we
might need more staff. Cal Marsella responded that the District staffs

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on June 11, 2007
Page 5 of 6

according to project and the TDP.
Liz Rao added that this contract would be used for TREX follow up work
(County Line pedestrian bridge), SB1 money for building Table Mesa park-nRide and pedestrian bridge, FasTracks non-corridor work on I-25/Belleview
bridge, Cherokee development, and miscellaneous projects that the District
needs expertise. As an example, the McCaslin Bridge was designed in house
but the District was required to get a “second opinion” to look at design and
make sure the calculations were correct and met CDOT’s standards. This
was one of the ways the on-call contract was used.
II. Updates
a. North Metro TOD – deferred to next P&D meeting, presentation will go in
Board packets.
b. BRT Phase 1 Final – Broomfield Slip Ramps and Pedestrian Bridge Property –
last phase of BRT. This is a coordinated project with City and County of
Broomfield and CDOT. The District sold land to Arista development group
and acquired 2.6 acres for new bus turn around facility. Received benefit of
parking structure at Broomfield Event Center. The District is going forward
with is the slip ramps and a pedestrian bridge to connect both sides of US
36. CDOT is moving 120th Street interchange to move closer to the ramps.
Staff will come back to the Board with the IGA because it involves a swap
of property. This is the last park-n-Ride that will move from being an on/off
highway to slip ramps.
Director Kinton asked about the timeframe for this project. Liz Rao
responded that the facility is scheduled to open in 2009.
c. Discussion of Jeffco/Golden West Corridor IGA Terms – Jeffco has
requested the District’s ridership model. Jeffco has hired a third party to
verify the District’s ridership model.
Chair Ruchman asked how is the model used? Bill Van Meter, Senior
Manager, Systems Planning, replied that we used the DRCOG model.
DRCOG forecasts are based on actual experience on bus routes and
operating light rail corridors. It is very accurate on light rail ridership and not
as accurate on bus ridership. The Model looks at how many trips per day
are generated by a household. Jeffco wants to look at our model and rerun.
Cal Marsella said the District has learned a lesson from TREX and will not
force people off of direct Routes from mountains and instead will run some
parallel routes and not force people to go to light rail.
Chair Ruchman expressed concerns about some of the language in the IGA.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on June 11, 2007
Page 6 of 6

Cal Marsella talked about a perceived “bait and switch.” The ballot proposal
was for double track from Denver Federal Center to Jefferson County
Government Center. The only thing that has been taken out of the corridor
that is a substantial deviation is the double track to Jeffco.
Even after value engineering, the corridor is still over budget.
Liz Rao said that staff will come back to the Board in July on IGA which
demonstrates a progressive commitment to service and ridership. This IGA
would require a second action to amend the hold harmless agreement.
II.

Other Matters – Pulliam asked about the Route CC and the August service
changes. Staff is expecting a Board amendment on it at the June 19, 2007
Board meeting.

III.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be July 2, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

IV.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the
meeting at 7:57 p.m.

