RTD Planning, Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee 10-06-20
JUDY LUBOW: Hello, everybody. I hope everybody's back. My name is Judy Lubow, and I'm
the Chair of the Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTracks Committee. And I'm calling tonight's
meeting to order. It's Tuesday, October 6 at 7:27.
Tonight should be an interesting meeting, different than typical. We have no recommended
actions, but two guest speakers will give presentations. And we're switching the order, because
Mr. Bolick has to leave.
So there will be two guest speakers. I want to thank both of them for being willing to share their
time and expertise with us about trends in the Denver economy. The hope is that this information
will help the Board and staff-- can somebody mute? Somebody's-- there's quite a bit of static.
Thank you.
The hope is that this information will help the Board and staff have a fuller appreciation of
economic conditions as we make our difficult budgetary decisions. The generosity of both
speakers in sharing their presentations with us is greatly appreciated. The first speaker will be
Mr. Patrick Bolick of-- and I hope I'm pronouncing that right-- of Jones Lang LaSalle, the
commercial real estate services company. And after him will be Jeff Romine-- and again, I hope
I'm pronouncing that correctly-- the Director of Economic Vitality and economist for the city and
county of Bloomfield.
In the interest of time, after both speakers are finished, I will contact each Director to see if there
are questions or comments for either presenter. OK. So with that, why don't we have the first
presenter, Mr. Patrick Bolick of Jones Lang LaSalle? Are you still here, Mr. Bolick?
PATRICK BOLICK: Yes, Chair Lubow. This is Patrick Bolick. And I also have with me Paul
Washington, who's our Market Director, and my partner Jamie Roupp. And I'll hand it over to
Paul if he's on right now for an introduction into our company, and then we'll start with our
presentation.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
PAUL WASHINGTON: Great. Thank you, Patrick. Good evening, everyone. Let me begin by
thanking Jeff Walker and the rest of this committee for the opportunity to brief you on how
COVID's impact on commercial real estate might serve as an indicator of ridership in the region.
My name, as was mentioned, is Paul Washington. I am the Market Director for JLL. JLL is a
Fortune 500 commercial real estate services company with over 90,000 employees worldwide.
I run a three-state region for the company, which includes Colorado. We provide at JLL all
manner of advisory services for investors and occupiers of commercial real estate, including
leasing, financing, buying or selling, managing, and overseeing the construction of office,

industrial, multifamily, or retail property. Our clients are some of the largest and most
sophisticated investors and employers in the world.
Importantly, JLL's Denver offices enjoy number one market share in tenant and landlord
representation, meaning our teams advise more landlords and tenants of commercial property as
a percentage of total square feet in the market than any other real estate firm. With me today are
Patrick Bolick, who you've heard from briefly, and Jamie Roupp, two of our most accomplished
real estate brokerage experts.
Patrick focuses on representing large tenants with a focus on public institutions like the state of
Colorado. And Jamie Roupp focuses on representing institutional owners of commercial
properties in downtown Denver and the RiNo District. So in essence, Patrick represents the
demand side of commercial real estate. And then Jamie represents the supply side of commercial
real estate.
The first slide, which is entitled Office Insights, is our attempt to give you a quick overview of
key dynamics within the Denver region. The first thing to note is that office tenants and
employees are reluctant to make any long-term decisions until they have more clarity on the
pandemic and when it will end. So major decisions are being delayed, and employees are signing
short-term leases as a result. This, of course, masks any long-term impact of COVID on the
Denver market.
The oil and gas industry, which represents about 10% to 15% of downtown office space and
about 7% of employment-- and both of those numbers can easily double when you look at the
service providers that focus on the oil and gas industry. The oil and gas industry has been
particularly hard hit, which we expect to have a permanent reduction in demand for office space
by as much as 1.5 million square feet in the downtown Denver market-- between 32 to 35 million
square feet.
Denver will remain an attractive place for growth companies to locate, including larger
companies headquartered in higher cost regions like San Francisco, Los Angeles. And these
companies will look to relocate divisions in lower cost regions like Denver to save money. I
think COVID has highlighted the efficacy of working from home.
And so companies will also look to put employees in these lower cost regions that are already
working from home to support headquarter functions in higher cost cities. So think of a young
analyst right out of school. There's no need for that young analyst to be working in a high cost
city like San Francisco when they can easily support that from Denver or even Salt Lake City for
that matter.
What will be important, however, is that Denver will need to continue to provide flexible
working spaces for growth companies so that they can scale as these companies grow. A
significant amount of large commercial real estate assets have been underwritten in the last
several years, a time of unprecedented growth and vibrancy. So when you take into consideration
the taxes and operating costs, landlords cannot absorb much more than a 15% or 20% reduction
in lease rates and then still continue to service the debt on those buildings. I mention this, and we

mention this because the real estate in the business community will struggle to keep solvent by
putting enormous pressure on policymakers looking to solve fiscal problems to increase fees and
taxes.
And so I'm going to stop there. That's a little bit of an overview. Next you're going to hear from
Patrick Bolick and his partner Jamie, who will give you a more in-depth intel on the Denver real
estate market and its dynamics.
PATRICK BOLICK: Thanks, Paul. Jamie, are you with us here on the line?
JAMIE ROUPP: Yes, I'm here. And I'm not on mute. Am I static, or can you hear me all right?
PATRICK BOLICK: I can hear you. I think we've moved to slide 3 if the board? Can see that.
And, Jamie, do you want to talk a little bit about kind of just the office stats from the second
quarter as we start to move into the third quarter and what we're tracking and what we're seeing?
And I can jump in as well.
JAMIE ROUPP: Yeah, you got it. Thanks, Patrick. There's a lot of data that we tracked. We're a
business of information, and so we're always studying the statistics. We're in a period where
those statistics are changing quickly.
Note that this slide represents the central business district. The total inventory of 30 million
square feet is approximately 30% of the total metropolitan statistical area, which is more like 100
million square feet. Notice that the vacancy in downtown Denver is at 15.8%. That's a
combination of direct space and sublease space.
On the next slide, we'll dive a little deeper into the sublease space that's available. But 15.8% is
anticipated to grow. Our third quarter stats are scheduled to come out within about a week. These
are all in the second quarter. And so as we've worked our way into this COVID pandemic, we're
certainly seeing less demand.
Notable in that regard is the under construction statistic, which represents 1.2 million square feet.
If you look at the past development cycle, which started in the year 2013, there's actually been
just over 6 million square feet delivered in downtown and the perimeter markets, most notably
RiNo. That represents a 20% increase to our supply.
And right now in this COVID pandemic era, we're able to keep closer track of supply than we
are demand, because as Paul mentioned, right now a lot of the tenants are in what I would call a
wait-and-see mode pending medical solutions. But then also, as you look at sort of that supply
and demand graph on the top right portion of the slide, we're talking about net absorption, which
is how does demand relate to supply. And when supply outpaces demand, you end up with
negative net absorption. Right now we're looking at approximately half a million square feet of
negative net absorption in this quarter alone. That's sort of the bad news.

The good news is there's a lot of tenants that remain on the sidelines. There were requirements
looking in Denver pre-COVID, and we anticipate that they'll come back post-COVID, albeit
maybe in a slightly reduced format.
One notable new occupancy that's happening real time is VF Corp, which is at 1551 Wewatta,
what was formerly occupied by Gates. That's a full building occupied by a new market tenant
that came from North Carolina. We have a lot of tenants in that same basket which are currently
located in other municipalities, other states most often that are looking at coming to the core of
downtown Denver, and we anticipate that that story will continue.
One that you might have saw in the newspaper recently was Palintir, based out of Palo Alto,
California, announced its move to Denver as a headquarter company, not dissimilar to DaVita or
Arrow or VF Corp, as I mentioned. And then there's a bunch of other technology companies
coming out of the Bay Area that are focused on Denver. And so big picture, we anticipate that
although the stats are not attractive in the short to mid-term, Denver's going to come out of this
economic correction and experience a disproportionate share of in migration.
PATRICK BOLICK: And, Jamie, another-- a bright spot-- I was on a similar presentation
recently for DRCOG along with the Denver EDC and JJ Ament. And we have been the
beneficiary here in Denver of in migration through COVID from the coast. There are several
companies that have made commitments to Denver, although they are not ready to make an
infrastructure investment in office space. Once we're past the pandemic, they will be absorbing
office space. So that is a bright spot that will absorb some of this vacancy that has come on the
market here over the last few months.
Additionally, you know, when you start to track kind of where we sit compared to other markets
as similar to Denver, and you look at the under construction number, we're a lot less as far as
new construction. We saw a lot of our new construction in the last few years that was absorbed.
We have seen a lot of traction with regard to new construction, in particular McGregor Square,
which is the Rockies West Lot property-- some of that has not been announced. But there are
some tenants that are very active looking at those properties.
And we were also in a great position coming out of the Great Recession where we were not
overbuilt. And so Denver was one of the first markets to recover once the demand side of the
business started to uptick.
JAMIE ROUPP: Patrick, if I might-- particularly germane to this conversation, the development
of the Denver Union Station has been tremendous for the migration to Denver and also to the
core of downtown Denver. In fact, I've got-- as Paul mentioned, my business is primarily focused
on landlord representation. And we've got buildings really all over the seven county metropolitan
area.
Some particular household names that I will mention have said in so many words, within two
blocks to Denver Union Station, don't show me anything else. And that really underscores the
value of what RTD and its partners have created in the Denver Union Station redevelopment as
well as the strength of the hub and spoke network that we're all enjoying in Denver.

But that includes companies like Facebook, Amazon, Checkr, Apple, and Slack Technologies, all
of which have a presence in the Denver Union Station neighborhood. And although they had lots
of options to choose from, they selected being in close proximity to the hub of the transportation
system.
PATRICK BOLICK: Do we want to move on to slide 4, which gives us a little bit of a snapshot
on-- with regard to the sublease market, which is-- some of it is a direct result of COVID. But
we'll talk through some of the larger subleases on the market. And some of this was already in
motion prior to COVID. But it just added to the supply downtown.
So that's on page 4. You can get a sense of the total square footage. We're at just over, I believe,
2 million square feet downtown, which is just under 10% of the marketplace. The spaces are still
under-leased. Some of them are occupied, but definitely there is a mind shift with regard to the
marketplace. And companies right now are re-evaluating what they're going to need going
forward.
We are definitely going to see an impact coming out of this. I've been on some recent calls at the
national basis talking to some of the larger global clients. And it's all across the board what
companies are talking about and what they're looking at as far as coming back to the office.
There's companies that have been in business since day one that are essential businesses. And
there's other companies that are talking about first quarter, second quarter as a time frame to look
at coming back to the office.
But I think an interesting stat that I heard recently when we surveyed our Fortune 500 companies
is the numbers about 10% to 15% is what they are seeing impact to the COVID changes with
regard to work from home as far as a reduction in office space. That's not going to happen
overnight, but potentially is going to-- over time, as leases roll, they're going to reduce their
footprint.
JAMIE ROUPP: And as a follow-up to that, Patrick, on that page 4 of the slide deck with the
subleases, one of the things that we're hearing anecdotally is that companies are being asked to
put their space under sublease market as a measure of prudence seeking to mitigate costs for
space that they're not using. However, that's a short and mid-term reaction. But long term, these
are still companies that are a going concern and do anticipate occupying space in the future.
And to Patrick's point, we're seeing the square footage is being pushed down by work from home
and pushed up by social distancing with regards to how dense space is. And so when you speak
with architects, they aren't seeing a tremendous reduction to the amount of square footage that is
required. A couple of exceptions-- in the law firm space, we're seeing a reduction in the 20% to
30% range. And then in sort of the tech space, we're seeing a reduction of approximately 10%.
A lot of it, though, is sort of-- we're waiting to see what the future of office will look like. But at
the heads of these companies and at the HR level and also on down to the employee level, we're
seeing more people describing their desires to be back in the office for culture, collaboration, and
creativity. Working from home is a bit of a short-term solution. There certainly are some

functions that can do that long term. But our opinion is that the office space will continue to be
occupied once we work our way through this medical solution.
If we go to page 5, this is sort of my most exciting part of the presentation, I would say-- our
most exciting part, because it's actually empirical data from our property management team
related to the physical occupancy of the buildings right now. So the previous statistics we were
looking at relate to what's under lease. And now on this page, we're actually looking at the
physical occupancy.
And this sort of spans-- as listed on this table on the bottom right, it's sort of working its way
from south to north-- Meridian, Inverness, Centennial, Greenwood Village, the Denver Tech
Center, Cherry Creek, RiNo, the Central Business District, and then the Northwest Corridor.
Note that this represents 10% of the total building stock, about 10 million square feet out of the
100 million that I described as the seven county metro area.
And then you see the average occupancy. This is a September statistic as a percentage of that
stock. Notable-- Cherry Creek is the most occupied, and RiNo is the least occupied. When you
take all of those numbers on a weighted average basis, it's just over 17%.
So said another way, downtown office buildings and suburban office buildings from Northwest
to southeast are, on average, occupied physically by about 17% of the workforce that would
otherwise be there pre-COVID. And so that's a pretty tremendous decline in physical occupancy.
You see the chart above going back to January. And then you see the low point being June, a
spike in July. And we've sort of been stable through September.
And then you see too the projection. A lot of these are-- the data is tracked with physical swipethroughs on garage and/or card key access, but also in dialogue with our tenants to say, how
many folks are in your office today, and what are your projections? Initially, it was sort of after
the 4th of July was when people were anticipating coming back. And then it was after Labor
Day. And now it's sort of moved out to that Q1 time frame for which people expect that they'll
have more people back in the office.
But I feel like this is a pretty telling statistic when you walk through these buildings. And in
these micro markets, you can see it visibly that there's a lot less of the workforce that you would
otherwise see. But this just shows that empirically, we're somewhere below 20% in terms of
physical occupancy.
PAUL WASHINGTON: Thanks, Jamie. The next slide is a snapshot of a presentation we gave to
ULI members about two weeks ago. I'm not going to run through every component of this slide.
But I do want to focus on the last issue. And Jamie, I think, summarized it very well, just what
do we anticipate being the lasting impact.
At JLL, we have a saying, 330-300. As a general rule from a real estate perspective, utilities are
roughly 10% or $3 a square foot of rental rates, which are roughly $30 a square foot, which is
10% of employee costs, which is roughly $300 a square foot. So in other words, employers
should be making decisions on where to locate and how to design office space based on how

such decisions improve the ability to recruit and retain talent. Obviously, talent is the most
important asset in most office environments. And therefore, any investment on that most
important asset could generate the most and the highest possible returns.
The lasting impact of the pandemic we believe is an evolution if not a clarity on what it means to
go into work. From an office perspective, going in to work is becoming much less about the
physical production of actual work product, because we've more or less proven that this can be
done at home when one has the right working conditions. Instead, the role of the office is really
providing the opportunity to tap into the collaboration, inspiration, and innovation that's
occurring within the office.
So the office is not dead, as Jamie just mentioned, but it has been accelerated towards an
evolution that, quite frankly, was already occurring. The evolution will involve a fundamental
reallocation of the amount of office space dedicated to individual work areas towards more space
dedicated to social interaction and collaboration, which is a means to accomplish a dual purpose.
It establishes a culture of innovation, which improves productivity, thereby satisfying the
employer and then also is providing a safe environment where social interaction and mentorship
occurs, thereby satisfying the employee.
So in our opinion, the most sophisticated employers will take this opportunity to reimagine the
future of office as a way to recruit and retain the most talented workforce and thereby gain a
competitive advantage. So in our opinion, the office demand in the Denver region will continue
to be primarily dictated by macroeconomic cycles and regional job growth rather than by the
number of people choosing to work from home. This is because most employers will take the
opportunity to reduce the amount of office dedicated for individual desk space and replace to
reclaim square footage with dedicated collaboration and innovation areas, thereby decreasing the
overall density of the office floor plan. In other words, a decline in the total square feet of office
space needed as a result of employees working from home will largely be offset by a similar
increase in the total square feet of office space needed as result of a less dense workplace.
And so from a macroeconomic point of view-- and I know Jeff Romine, one of the brightest
minds in economics, will opine upon this. There's certainly no consensus between economists on
how long the recovery period will last. But from a regional and job growth perspective, Denver
is likely to be the net beneficiary of this recession. And I think I alluded to reasons why.
So it's really important, and I think RTD is going to play an invaluable role on making sure that
the region remains attractive to a talented workforce and therefore to employers. And some of
the driving forces to our attractiveness will be the safety of the region and the perception of
safety, particularly along the 16th Street Mall as was already discussed. Our transit system,
specifically our mass transit system, and our utilization of I-25 and I-70. Of course affordable
housing will play a key role, and I think RTD can really impact the number of affordable units
we can put onto the market by encouraging density at TOD.
And then of course, our culinary, cultural, and sports venues-- making sure that they remain
experiential, accessible, and relevant and also diverse. So I think Denver, as Jamie alluded to, is
well positioned. And we should come out of this recession stronger than we went into it. But it

will take some time for this to work through and for us to get back to some sense of normalcy,
particularly from a commercial real estate perspective. But we're very, very bullish on the longterm prospects of the Denver region. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Gentlemen, thank you very much.
PATRICK BOLICK: Thanks, Paul. That concludes our presentation. We can open it up for
questions if there are any.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. This is Judy Lubow. We're going to save the questions till after
Jeff also does his presentation. Thank you very much for this very interesting presentation. It had
things to think about that I hadn't thought about before, such as redesigning the offices
themselves.
OK. So we will do questions after the second presentation. Jeff, would you like to step forward
and start yours?
JEFF ROMINE: Absolutely. And Thank you, Chairperson, and then the Directors of the RTD
district. My name is Jeff Romine. I formerly was the Chief of Commerce for the city and county
of Denver. I also was an economist at DRCOG. So I've looked at the region as a whole, the state,
also various cities. And today I'm just going to talk briefly about the urban market as Paul and
Jamie and Patrick have already started. I'm not going to talk about some of the things they did.
So I'm just going to take a broader economic view. But I will get to a couple of key points that
will link up to what was just presented and then also lead into the following presentation from
the RTD staff.
Quickly, if you go to page 47 in the Board packet, that's really the meat and potatoes of the entire
presentation. And it gives you a sense of where today's economy is. I want to just mention
though that this is a consumer-led recession. And so while we are in a pandemic-- and I'm not
going to speak about the pandemic and the public health effects-- there is an underlying
economic weakness that was beginning to appear in the fourth quarter.
It was not going to lead to a recession. It was likely going to be a slowdown. But now because of
the effects on the consumers, now we are in a full recession. And it is a consumer-led recession.
Secondly, the other part of it though that's important is that there was a fatigue that had been
growing especially from the consumer standpoint. And so to some degree, we're deflating that
exuberance bubble. And we've done this before in this region where we've seen a slight
correction in some of the exuberance that existed.
As everyone knows-- and this is not anything surprising-- the major impacted sectors are also
linked to the pandemic, but they are the lifestyle sectors. And some of those would have been
affected a little bit anyway, but not to the degree that they are. And that's lodging, travel,
entertainment, and dining. And that goes without being said.

The community serving portions of the economy though are stable and, in fact, in some cases
growing. And I'm going to talk about that, because it does have some implications upon some of
the revenue things that you look at when you go into your future budgeting. Paul and Patrick and
Jamie all talked about the strength of this economy, and it goes beyond the center core of the
metro area or even the central city. It goes into the entire metropolitan area and arguably to the
state as a whole.
And that's really important, because a significant portion of our economy of the metro area is
also driven by the strength of Colorado. So I don't want to lose-- you know, we can't separate
this. But those economic factors include access to markets, reliable water and energy. Yes, we
are in a high plain desert. But nevertheless, we do have access to water.
And then most importantly, as mentioned several times in the last presentation, is talent. The
quality of place is really important. And while many people who've lived here for 20, 40 years or
more will think about-- when you see the word "reasonable" in my presentation, you're like, wait
a second, or "affordable." But compared to many of our competing market areas, we actually are
both reasonable and affordable.
And when I say reasonable, it's because we're very stable. We're very collegial in the way that we
do things. And traditionally-- and this is true for what RTD did with FasTracks. And that is, we
build ahead of where the demands are sometimes and get in front of it. And that allows us to do
it at a more reasonable cost. So it creates the opportunity for future growth.
We are concentrated in the next generation part of the economy. You've seen this next slide,
which is on page 48 of your packet. I don't need to go into it, and I'm not going to describe it. But
effectively, the economy was doing well. And then, of course, you see the drop-off. There will
be a number of other graphs that will have spiking in the other direction.
How does this compare? I just want to hit this just for a quick moment, and that is to speak to
that this recession, which I refer to as the 888 recession-- and the reason why I do that is because,
as you can see in the bullet points, there was the immediate impact that was coming from the
public health issue. But as we've begun to move through that-- we're not through it, but as we've
begun to move through it, we're seeing some stability in some elements of the economy. We're
seeing variance in others. And that's the 8 month.
Then we move into the full recovery, and that's likely to take us all the way into 2022 is where
we're going to be probably coming out of this. At least that's been my view of this for a number
of months now.
Just to give you the comparison points, you can see what happened in the 2001 and the 2008
recession. And you can see the depths of those recessions and how long it took us to recover. So
this recovery coming in 2022 to 2023 is not atypical. There's a greater depth right now, but not
necessarily from the standpoint of the duration.
The next page, number 50 in your packet, just shows you some of the national statistics. I would
just point out to you that our high point for initial workforce unemployment claims was 56,444

in this metro area. Currently, the most recent week was around 3,200. So as you can see, that big
impact that occurred in March and April has been mitigated.
But a number of those people that did file for unemployment in March and April are still on
unemployment. Even though the $600 has moved away, they still are on the extended
unemployment that now can go out to 39 weeks, which was part of the package also. It's not in
the enhanced level though.
Our current unemployment in the metro area is roughly 6.9%. But the thing I would mention
here just for you all to kind of always put when you see that headline figure is that's about
115,000 people in the metro area. When you think about the people who have dropped out of the
workforce, and those are the people that have become discouraged workers or said, you know
what, I'm going to sit this out because of either family or health reasons or other things, you can
add almost 2% more to that unemployment.
So our unemployment still, when you think about a full employment level that we were seeing
prior to this recession starting, is roughly at about 9%, a little bit less, but roughly about 9%. So I
would just point those quick numbers out. You can see the economic trends in the next slide.
And I'd like to move quickly to slide 52 in your packet, which is two slides in. And it just talks a
little bit about-- I just want to mention this, because there's been some conversation amongst
people about why is the economy so different? Why is Denver as a city having a different impact
fiscally and economically than perhaps the suburban areas?
Jamie made a very good case for why the strength is still there in Denver. But part of this is
around both employment as occurring in the office locations, but also the other parts of the
economy, so the retail, the dining, the sales activity things. And one of the things that I would
just put into your mind is when folks-- as Jimmy, I think, pointed out that it's roughly about 20%
of people working in the downtown or in the metropolitan area are not working from their office
location. And I believe it is roughly 18% to 20% for downtown itself. Those people are though
still working, but from home.
And so what they've done is they've taken those dollars that they would have been spending in
downtown Denver for lunch and retail activities and other places, and they're spending them in
their home locations. So what you've seen is a shift in retail spending in two ways. One is away
from certain types of sectors-- the hospitality, the dining, some degrees of retail-- but also a shift
from the urban core back out to the suburban areas.
And so it is a characteristic of two things. One is that it's because where people are working right
now. And as pointed out in the previous conversation, not everybody wants to sit for 12 hours or
8 hours on a Zoom call. And so therefore, what ends up happening is they do take off and go
shopping for a few moments safely or perhaps grab something to eat and either have it delivered
or pick it up or even eat in the patio areas that many of the communities in the metro area have
set up to encourage safe dining in our communities.

The second part of it, though, is the shift in retail spending from dining to other food as an
example. So there is a movement toward grocery. And so what you see is grocery and mass
merchandisers are seeing a growth actually in building materials. They're seeing a growth in
retail spending at the same time that we're seeing entertainment, leisure, as well as dining see
really a significant hit.
And so what you end up is having this transfer. Now, one of the things that's an underlying issue
then as you think about this in the short-term budgeting characteristic of RTD is of course
groceries are-- I believe groceries are not part of the sales tax bases for RTD. However,
restaurants are. And so as you see that shift from one to the other, it doesn't necessarily benefit
RTD in the way that your revenues will be coming in. So how long that dining effect occurs and
how fast the consumers come back to some of those types of things does have an impact.
I will just then move on to a couple more slides just to kind of be quick with this and to kind of, I
guess, whet your appetite for your questions or perhaps for some written questions that I'd be
happy to answer at another time. This shows you what I had originally forecasted for Broomfield
employment going outward. And you can see how I thought the recovery.
My sense of this was what a swoosh economy would look like. The way I created this as well as
the way I created the one for Denver-- and I did these both in April-- was thinking through what
would be happening on industry by industry and trying to understand the impacts upon the
consumer and upon the worker. If you look at slides 53 and 54 in your packet, you can see the
differences. And there's a slightly more-- there's a slightly deeper impact that occurred in Denver
than perhaps in Broomfield or some of the other communities. We'll say like Lone Tree and
Greenwood Village, some of the suburban areas.
So as I go on then, my last real point of size that I just want to hint to-- see where it says 888?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
You can see what I'm talking about. And if you go to that last slide, which is really where we're
thinking about the forward look on the economy and the forward look to recovery, you can see
that in the third 8. And that's the 8 quarters and how we move through that. I would suggest to
you that the recovery will-- starting later or early in the next year and will start solidifying.
We still see some weakness. As an example, the most recent weekly unemployment filings
included a higher level of professional business services and construction, which were holding
up over the last six months. And we're now seeing those weekly filings starting to come in. And
so it's starting to impact.
Again, the legacy issues-- retail will not return in 2019 to this-- or return to that same level for a
number of reasons. And one is retail is changing, and those things are continuing. And that
started back in the early part of this millennia in the 2005 to '10 period. We started seeing that
activity moving to not really an online versus bricks and mortar, but a hybrid is really what we've
emerged into. And we'll continue to see that evolution.

Work-- I'm not going to speak about that, because Jamie and Patrick and Paul did a really good
job. We will see a growth in our experience spending, but it will take till we feel safe before
we're going to see that resurgence come back.
And then finally, public revenue approaches will continue to weaken. And what I mean by that is
the sales tax, there's some underlying conditions that are affecting that, as I've already
mentioned-- fuel taxes, the HUTF tax, and others. We will continue to see an erosion with
electric vehicles and others. And of course, property taxes-- it's one of the issues that's on the
state ballot. And it's just an issue as we think about our economic recovery and then our
economic opportunities as we move forward.
So with that, Madam Chairman and Directors, that concludes my presentation. I really do
appreciate you listening. And please let me know if I can answer any questions. Thank you very
much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Jeff. And thank you for the other presenters also. Very interesting
new ideas to think about. I am sure people will have some questions and comments. So what
we're going to do now is go to each Director in turn and ask them to express whatever comments
and questions they have.
OK, first up-- we're going to start alphabetical order-- is Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Interesting information. No questions. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Very interesting, both presentations. And what I will be anxious to see is the
CU Leeds School of Business forecast. And this background information will actually, I think,
be helpful in our consideration of those moving forward. With that, I have no other questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Thank you. And thanks, Peggy, for highlighting that. Good point. So I
do have a couple of questions if I can quickly go through them.
There was a mention of sort of an expected recovery and a change in office space, both
downward and upward pressures kind of counterbalancing each other, but continued focus on
CBD. I know that some of the recent newspaper reporting has indicated that residential demand
has spread to the suburbs. And it's kind of burgeoning there. Do you folks from-- like Patrick or
Jamie or Paul, for example, do you see that commercial activity chasing any of that or following
that to outer locations at all, or do you mainly see the patterns we've seen in the past recover but
with different looks and office evolving?

JAMIE ROUPP: Sure. I can take a crack at that. This is Jamie with JLL. We do see a bit of a
migration out of the CBD at the present moment. And Cherry Creek is, as I mentioned
previously, the highest physical occupancy of any of the micro markets that we've studied. And
we also see some tenants that have active requirements with near-term lease expiration dates
looking outside of downtown in part because of the sort of perceived unsafe nature of the 16th
Street Mall and even, in fact, some of the stuff up by Civic Center Park where there was more
disruption with the-- sorry, the word just escaped me. But the folks-- the protests. Sorry about
that.
But at the end of the day, there's two things I would point out. One is sort of real estate 101 is
where does the executive live? And in a lot of cases, those are in suburban markets. What we've
seen in this past cycle is a lot more decisions being made at the HR level and those decisions
being guided by where do their employees live. And the millennial workforce living in dense
urban cores that are walkable has sort of driven a lot more demand into the core of downtown.
The other note that I would make as it relates to sort of a flight to the suburbs is if you're a
company that is occupying office space in Greenwood Village, for example, it makes it really
difficult for you, the company, to attract and retain talent from the northern edges of downtown,
be it Broomfield, Thornton, Northglenn, et cetera.
And so to the sort of thesis of the war for talent, I continue to believe that the core of downtown
Denver will ultimately be the biggest or the most active of our office markets because of that.
However, in the short term, I see sort of a more suburban interest. But again, I think that's
relatively short. I'd be curious, Patrick, your thoughts given your tenant rep hat.
PATRICK BOLICK: Yeah. I agree with your sentiment, Jamie. There has been-- definitely
there's been an urbanization in Denver over the last five years. We've seen a lot of the young
workforce occupying housing in the central area. And that's further driven the growth downtown.
There has been interest from tenants in suburban markets that are currently occupying
downtown.
However, we have not really seen any data showing that there have actually been leases
executed. So there is interest in looking at those options, but I think ultimately when they're
making long-term decisions, we're going to see those companies make those investments in
downtown just because of the public transportation access, the central location in the metro area,
and just the infrastructure. I still am bullish on downtown Denver.
JEFF ROMINE: And if I may-- Chairperson, if I may, I'd just like to add though the suburban
perspective having been one of the key people that worked on economic development in Denver
for a number of years. There were projects that always chose not to be in downtown or in the
core center of the metro area. And that's been true for the last 10 years.
And my colleagues know a number of those businesses who have chosen not to be in Denver.
And they've chosen suburban locations. So oftentimes, it was pointed out by both gentlemen, it is
a decision that the company makes based upon what makes best sense for them and for their
workforce. So there are a number of firms as an example in Broomfield or Greenwood Village or

Lone Tree and other parts of the suburban areas that they have literally looked at downtown
Denver and chosen a suburban location.
So it's not a complete that everybody looks that only goes to downtown. They are growing
throughout the metropolitan area, which improves the utilization of the transit system, because it
can't just be one-way traffic. So thank you.
PATRICK BOLICK: Yeah, and I actually want to make one more comment with regard to the
suburbs. Although, you know, we think downtown will grow, what we're seeing in the suburbs
over the last five years is a lot of companies that are really suburban companies are looking to
relocate when their leases are up or consolidate along the light rail system. And the reason being
is that what we would call the reverse commute actually works very well in Denver. You've got a
lot of the young labor that's concentrated in central Denver, but they're willing to take mass
transit south to their jobs along light rail in the south suburban and other markets-- in Santa Fe,
other areas as well, and then take the train back, because they never have to jump in a car. So
because of the transit system that we've built out here, I think that we will continue to see interest
in both markets. But because of the access to labor through public transportation, I think those
areas will continue to see growth.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: That's great.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Excuse me. Are you done, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I had another quick one, but I can forego it since we're running pretty late.
Thank you very much. Jeff said we could submit in writing. I'd like to do that. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: That would be great. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Excellent presentation, you guys. I really
enjoyed it. It's very thought-provoking. In the '90s, IBM sold a bunch of their real estate off. Are
you guys there? I heard so much noise.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. They sold a bunch of real estate off, and then they had, like, main
office buildings that they did keep. And IBM employees would just float around building to
building really all over the globe. So maybe that's something that would be interesting.
The observation I'm making from the recession we had in 2001, 2008, and then today really take
on a different characteristic, right? Like, in 2001, it was a big, amazing demise of huge
companies. Like, Arthur Andersen you never thought would go away. Then we had the mortgage
crisis in 2008.

And this pandemic just seems to be so ubiquitous. And those were big in 2001, 2008. But they
weren't hitting the small businesses like the pandemic did. And 90% of America is employed by
small businesses.
And so I'm thinking, all the big businesses that are going to buy these millions of-- or lease
millions of square feet of office space. It seems like it could be a big problem. But on the other
hand-- now here's my question-- what about climate refugees? And I'm not just talking
California, but climate refugees from other regions of America coming to Colorado either as
talent or as corporate headquarters? And if you could comment on that, I'd be grateful. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Does anybody want to take that up?
JEFF ROMINE: Madam Chair, this is Jeff Romine. And perhaps I can start, and that might
trigger some of my friends. What we are seeing is there's a fair amount of activity that we are
responding to right now from an economic developing prospect. I believe Patrick alluded to his
last presentation with JJ Ament from Metro Denver EDC. We're working with a number of firms
who were looking at Broomfield as well as other locations in the metro area, and they're
evaluating it against other places in the country.
I think what we provide is-- and this was true in the last recession and how we were able to grow
our way through that one and re-establish our economy. We thought about where our primary
industries and where our opportunities were. And recognizing talent is a critical factor, but also
recognizing where we wanted to move to. And so what we did in the metro areas, we began to
focus on green technologies. We began to focus on our orientation and practice towards
sustainability. And we have continued that.
And using FasTracks as an example, we've recognized and used that as part of our economic
strategies for growing our economy. And the same is still true today. So you're absolutely right
on point. There are people that are making choices about the long-term sustainability of a
location, not just economically, but also environmentally and what is in the best interest for their
family and their extended family through their company. So thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Gentlemen, we are kind of going over our time limit. I want to thank you so
very much. And we have a lot of Directors that we haven't gotten a chance to ask if they had
comments or questions. And what I would suggest, given our time crunch, because we have a
whole other committee meeting after this, is that the Directors could email questions if they have
to myself. And I'll be able to then email them to the presenters.
Yeah. So I'm sorry to do this, but we just have a chock full program. So I wanted to thank our
wonderful presenters. Thank you so much for this very thought-provoking information.
JEFF ROMINE: Thank you for the opportunity. Have a great evening.
JUDY LUBOW: You too. All right.

JAMIE ROUPP: Thank you, everybody.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you for joining us. OK. Next up, we have an update, Quality
of Life Report.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill-- yeah, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager
for Planning. And I'm going to turn this presentation over to Carly Macias to give you a quick
update on our latest addition of the Quality of Life Report. Just briefly, I want to also let the
Board know that Carly will be leaving RTD. Her last day is actually going to be this Friday.
She's got a great position as a Senior Transportation Planner at Apex Design. So this is her last
chance to address the Board as an RTD employee at least.
And just a couple quick comments about Carly. Earlier this year, she was recognized by Mass
Transit Magazine as one of the nation's top 40 under 40. A big contribution that she has made to
RTD is by leading efforts around our fleet electrification work, from being an advocate for
reducing our carbon footprint to working with Xcel and the PUC on lowering our operational
costs for our existing and future battery electric bus fleets.
She worked very closely on moving towards our next electric fleet purchase with Fred Worthen.
She's really motivated. She spent a lot of time learning how our bus operations work and learning
the limitations that we're going to have to work around with battery electric buses-- range anxiety
and battery degradation issues. Her knowledge has really helped us advance towards a battery
electric fleet.
She's also just an outstanding and great colleague. Her work on this product that she's about to
present, the FasTracks Quality of Life, really demonstrates her ability to communicate very well
and do quality work. So she's a very nice person, a genuine person, who's been great to work
with. And we're going to miss her greatly. And I just wanted to take that moment to say that.
Carly, the floor is yours.
CARLY MACIAS: Thanks, Bill. Can everyone hear me OK?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
CARLY MACIAS: OK, great. I really appreciate that, Bill. And I did want to say that I have
really enjoyed my time at RTD. And it's really hard to leave. I'm very excited about my next
opportunity, but I'm really grateful for all the opportunities I got at RTD to work on some of the
great projects that Bill talked about. And yeah. It's sad to go, but I do hope to be at least
somewhat involved with RTD, even if it's on the sidelines. I will continue using RTD at the very
least.
But I'm happy that I'm able to make this presentation tonight. So speaking of one of the projects
that I've been working on for the past four years, I'll be talking about the Quality of Life study

tonight. And I'll try to make it short, because I know that we're a little short on time. So I'll go as
quickly as I can.
So the Quality of Life study, it really began in 2006. The purpose of this study is to track the
progress of meeting the FasTracks program goals. It's kind of expanded a little bit over the years.
We've tried to incorporate metrics that are interesting at the time to keep the study relevant.
So you would imagine that this year we tried to incorporate metrics around COVID. So typically,
we've tried to stick with annual data so that we can compare data over years. But this time, we've
included daily, weekly, and monthly data over the course of 2020 so that we could show those
trends that are going on with COVID. And in addition, we also introduced sustainability metrics
and actually created an entire sustainability report, which you can see on the web page, the
Quality of Life study under Projects on RTD's web page.
So I really encourage you to take a look at the full report. I hope that that report is useful for lots
of different things, maybe even with the RTD Accountability Committee since I know that a lot
of those-- the members of that committee are interested in how RTD is helping meet the state
climate action goals. So I'll cover a little bit of that in my presentation. But I'll just go into it.
So I'm working with the consolidated agenda packet. So I'll reference page numbers from that
packet. I'm starting on page 61 and going into the first metric on page 62.
So first you'll see actually kind of similar to what you saw in the previous presentation, but
maybe a little bit of a different perspective. COVID unemployment-- and this is for the entire
state of Colorado, but a lot of the employment is concentrated in the Denver metro region, so I
think it's still very relevant. So you'll see that COVID-19 there on the right is-- I mean, the
unemployment rate is significantly higher than we saw during the two prior recessions that you
see on there.
And the peak was in mid-May at 10%. And there's been a slight decline since then, but it's still
very high. And this really affects the way that people live their lives and move around our region
and the way that RTD serves our customers.
So next, I'm looking at page 63. So this is COVID fare revenue. And I'm sure you all are familiar
with a lot of these numbers, but I think it's still helpful context. So with the stay-at-home orders,
we started to see declines in fare revenue. But really, they went down significantly when we
suspended fare collection, which makes a lot of sense.
But then even once fares were being collected again in July, we're still seeing much lower rates
than we did in 2019 because of declines in ridership. And so from March to July 2020, we saw
over $40 million less collected in fare revenue. And fare revenue last year represented about 14%
of RTD's overall revenue.
So the next page is page 64, and that's COVID sales tax revenue, which at first glance, doesn't
look quite as dire as the fare revenue. But sales tax revenue represents a lot more of RTD's
overall revenue at about 61%. So from March to July, we had about $25 million less collected in

sales tax revenue due to stay-at-home orders and store closures and things like that. So that's
definitely had an impact on how RTD can provide service.
So the next page is 65, and it's COVID vehicle miles traveled. So this is actually a chart that is
for specifically the RTD boundary, which StreetLight worked with us to give us this great data.
And so you can see that VMT started going down in March like you would expect and kind of
hit rock bottom in April at about half the amount of 2019.
But we've definitely seen VMT start to recover. So as of July, which is a couple of months ago,
but the most recent data we've had, it was only 11% lower than 2019. So VMT is definitely
starting to come back. But it is difficult to say whether those are commute trips, which is
probably unlikely. It could be other types of trips like recreation or going to grocery stores or
things like that.
And I did just want to point out that you do see for the 2019 data that VMT naturally goes up
over the course of the year. So it's relatively low in the winter and starts to rise through the
spring and summer, which will be relevant for the next metric on page 66. So that's COVID
driving versus transit trends.
So the way that this is shown is percent change. And so it looks like VMT is higher than it ever
was before. But as I said, VMT is traditionally higher in the summer. But regardless of that, we
are seeing that VMT has recovered more quickly than RTD boarding. So these are both
measurements for the Denver metro area.
So I think one of the biggest challenges is just RTD tends to serve a lot of commuters that travel
during the peak period. And a lot of those work trips are not happening right now, which leads
well into the next metric on page 67. So COVID home and work trips-- we're seeing, as you
would expect, that more people are spending additional time at home. So that orange line on the
top is showing the increase in time spent at home, which is about 10% more. But this is-- you
know, you already spend a lot of time at home even if you're going to work every day. So a 10%
increase is actually pretty high.
But then on the other side, you see the percent change in work trips has definitely declined like
you would expect. And it's hovering between 40% and 50% less than what we saw in January
2020. And this is probably because work from home, students doing remote learning, and then
even people that have been furloughed or laid off are probably spending more time at home and
not having those work trips.
So next is page 68. And this is actually 2019 data, but I do think it's still interesting. So this is
quarter commute mode share. And some of you may remember that we've shown this metric
previously, but we focused on rail routes in prior years. And we do have that metric in the full
report that you can take a look at.
But we wanted to highlight some of the major bus routes this year in my presentation. So this is
morning peak period in the peak direction. So for example, the first one in that table is Colfax
Avenue, and it's westbound, which is the peak direction, which most of the traffic is going in that

direction. And you'll see that 40% of the people traveling along Colfax going westbound in the
morning are on transit, which is-- I just think that's fantastic.
And so that means 60% of the people going westbound in the morning are traveling in vehicles.
So you can see that transit is very competitive on Colfax during the AM peak period in 2019. But
I do think that that has somewhat continued during COVID that R15 and 15L services are doing
very well.
And quite a few of these other major bus routes are also somewhat competitive with driving,
especially considering that they don't have their own right of way and that they're possibly being
stuck in some of that congestion of all that vehicle traffic, which leads me to the next metric on
page 69. So this is COVID travel time and variability.
And again, you may recognize this metric, but it's a little bit different. In previous years, what
I've presented to you is transit versus auto times. But when we're looking at older data, that's a
little less relevant right now, although we do have that metric in the full report. But for this one,
you can see the darker color on the bottom is travel time, and the lighter color on top is
variability.
So variability you can think of as the amount of time that you would budget to make sure that
you get to a meeting or a destination on time so that you're not late. So you can see for each pair
on the left is the August 2019 runboard, which is last fall. And then on the right is the pandemic
'20 run board, which is kind of this current time during COVID.
So you'll see for our major bus routes that we're having much lower travel times and variability
during COVID. So with fewer vehicles on the road and less congestion, our buses are able to
travel more quickly and get people to their destinations more quickly, which I think this is just-you know, you have to look for some of the silver linings during COVID, and I think this could
be one of them, just showing that transit can be better if we give transit priority and right of way.
So I think it's a decent argument for some bus only lanes maybe on a few of these corridors.
So on page 70 is one of our first sustainability metrics. And in this presentation tonight, I'm just
going over two of them. But again, I would highly recommend you check out the whole report,
because I think there's a lot of great information in there. So this is transportation sector
emissions. And this is from the EPA National Emissions Inventory. And it is from 2017, because
they only do this data collection every three years.
But from what I've read, I don't think that the trends have significantly changed in that time. So
you'll see the orange and yellow sections of that pie chart are passenger vehicles. So that's cars,
SUVs, trucks, and light duty. And those two sections represent 50% of all greenhouse gas
emissions in the Metro Denver region.
So that's not just 50% of transportation. That's 50% of everything. So that's really the biggest
source of greenhouse gas emissions. And you'll see this tiny red slice on the left is transit buses,
which is less than 1% of contributing to those greenhouse gas emissions.

And I think that the big takeaway here is that getting more of those people out of their cars and
onto transit is going to make a big difference in accomplishing those GHG reductions. And you
know, I think it's essential that we continue moving forward with looking at zero emission
transit. And I think that has to happen. But I think the biggest priority is getting people out of
cars and onto transit. So I think that's the takeaway that I get from this.
And so I'll move to the next slide, which is on page 71. So this kind of goes along with what I
was saying about electric transit. So I call it zero tailpipe emission transit, because there is some
emissions associated with this, because electricity generation can be from natural gas or from
coal. So there is some indirect emissions.
But RTD operates quite a few transit services that are powered by electricity. All of our light rail
and commuter rail are electric, and our MallRide buses are also electric. And so they have no
tailpipe emissions.
And so this chart shows passenger miles over time, which is, I think, a great way of looking at it,
because it's this combination of ridership and revenue miles kind of showing how far people are
traveling on these services. So you'll see we've had a dramatic increase in electric transit
passenger miles over the last 30 years. And a lot of this is the expansion of our rail network,
especially through FasTracks, but also the deployment of those electric buses on the 16th Street
Mall just because there's I think 10 million boardings a year on our MallRide.
So really we're operating a lot of transit that has no tailpipe emissions. And something else that's
great is that Xcel is planning to offer 100% carbon-free electricity by 2050. And they're already
making a lot of moves in this direction. And so basically, our electric transit is just going to get
cleaner over time because the electricity powering it is also getting cleaner because of Xcel's
goals, which I think is really great.
So that wraps up my presentation. There's a lot more to it that you can see on the web page,
which I encourage you again to visit. I think the web page also looks pretty great. But I am
happy to answer any questions that you may have, or you can send me your questions later on.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Carly. Very good presentation. And I wanted to wish you luck on
your new job and new life. And thank you for the work you've done for RTD. I will be asking
the Directors if they have questions or comments, but asking them to be mindful of the time,
because we do have another committee meeting afterwards. And this time we'll go from the back
of the alphabet. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Carly. We will miss you. Well done. And I'm happy to know
that it is up on the website, that we are making this information available. And again, I'd like to
ask Director Guissinger and Director Whitmore if they're make sure that the Accountability
Committee gets to look at this work. That's all. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Thank you. Director Williams, good point. We will-- it seems that
our whole agenda is very valuable tonight I think for a number of groups outside of this Board.
Tremendous presentation. I look forward to looking at it more in depth on the web. Thank you
for the presentation and your service, Carly. Good luck.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Great presentation. Good luck with everything you do. And no
questions. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm glad we're not playing a drinking
game for the phrase "great presentation." But it truly was.
And I do want to just make two quick observations. Looking at page 66 of the packet, it seems to
me that a large part of the disparity between private vehicle trips rising and transit not rising is
the appearance or the concern about safety and cleanliness. And we just need to point out that
you may think your car is cleaner, but actually we clean our vehicles in such a way that they are
probably cleaner.
And looking at page 69, I think we can make lemonade out of all the lemons, because we can
show that the trip times are shorter. They are more reliable, and the cars are cleaner. So that's
something to consider for messaging. But thank you very much. And again, great presentation.
Cheers.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't have any questions. And yes, good presentation.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No question or comment.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi. Thank you so much. Carly, I just would like to thank you for your work
here. I am so sad to see you go. But this presentation is a reminder of why I have fallen in love
with transit. And really excited about potentially looking at bus only lanes, because I'm a utilizer
of public transit. And I would love to just get to places much faster.
But thank you so much for this. I will refrain from asking the myriad of questions that I have in
considering time. And I will let folks chime in.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger, please.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, great report. I will go back to the website and look at
the rest of it. And I will get this to DRCOG and the Accountability Committee.
One thing that I'm still just astonished at and love is the slide on page 70 that says that 50% of
the GHG emissions in all of Denver are from cars, and only 0.4% of those emissions are from
transit. I don't think people have any idea of that disparity. And it's great. Thanks. That's all.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well done, Carly. No questions or comments. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, Carly, I'm so sorry to be losing you, but I know you'll do great things.
Thank you for what you've done for RTD and the region, and the best of luck.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Carly, I echo the sentiments of my fellow
Directors that I'm sorry to see you go, because my experience, particularly with your
presentation on the electrification of our fleet was one of the most informative I've ever sat
through. And I want to thank you for that. And this was a great presentation. But good luck to
you in your new ventures. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I liked the presentation particularly because it supports
what I've said for a long time, which is public transit reduces congestion and improves air
quality. And we need to message that more often. Thanks a lot.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Are there any hard copies of this report available?
CARLY MACIAS: So this is Carly. We didn't print copies this year just because all of the
presentations are remote. But that may be something that we can do.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I just find it's nice to have that to use as a reference as opposed to have to
go to the computer, start it up, and look up one thing. But if there are some hard copies, I'd
appreciate one. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Carly, I always find your
presentations to be extraordinary. They really just are so valuable to us as an agency. And as a
TMA and a TDM advocate, this is the story we need to be talking about in terms of the value of

transit in terms of not just climate control, but the environment. And it just goes on and on and
on. And you always knock it out of the park.
And I just want to say thank you so very much. And I agree with Director Williams. This
presentation to the Accountability Committee really needs to be given to them in printed form so
that they can actually digest it, because it really has a lot of invaluable information. So thank
you. Good luck. And I'm sure we will all be reading about the great work you're going to be
doing as you go on in your journey. So thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. This is Chair Lubow, and I'm just going to end the comments with
telling you, Carly, thank you once again. And it has been a great presentation. And to me, page
70 says it all. With the majority of greenhouse gas emissions, 64% are from the transportation
sector, but only 0.4% come from transit buses. So that basically says why we're doing what we're
doing. Thank you and good luck in your new career.
OK, let's move on. The next item is an information item-- equitable transit-oriented development
deep dive. And we've been informed by staff that all of the Directors will be contacted by staff to
have one-on-one discussions about-- OK. Next up is other matters. Does anybody have any other
matters they want to discuss?
That sounds great. OK. The next meeting date will be December 1. Can we imagine that?
December 1. OK. And after that, we're going to adjourn. And I suggest we take another fiveminute break and then go to the Communication and Government Relations Committee meeting.
Thank you.

