2020-08-07 SBM
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, it is 10:30. We are back in our open session. And we have a couple of
items to discuss. I believe-- Gregg, do you still have your hand raised?
GREGG MOSER: Sorry. I'll put it down.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam-- Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to move that we include Director Folska in this decision-making
process going forward due to her inability-- accessibility issues that she had earlier.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that's a motion. Is there a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Whitmore was the second. Are there any objections? Hearing none, I
take that as an affirmative vote. And we will allow Director Folska, under the circumstances, to
go ahead and have a vote in this matter. Director Guissinger, I believe you had another motion of
process that you wanted to make.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I don't even know if it's a motion. It's a discussion. We currently
had interviews scheduled for the 19th and 20th, which just leaves a very short time for the videos
to be made public and the survey to be out in the public till midnight on the 23rd. And so I talked
with Gregg and Barbara and others doing all our interviews on one day. I think it's an hour and a
half each with 10 minutes in between. Miss McManus recommended that we make time
available from 7:45 to 3:00, but ideally we would finish sooner than that.
So, you know, because of what's on people's calendars right now, I'm suggesting that we do it on
the 19th. Director Lubow just called me and said, why can't we do it sooner? And I just think
that's a question of whether people have filled up their calendars sooner. So at least the 19th
would give one more day-- survey.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to ask Mr. Moser what he has conveyed to the finalists at this point.
GREGG MOSER: I told the candidates that we would probably record their videos, if I have it
correctly, on Monday the 17th. I told them to keep the 19th and 20th available. So I believe we
can make the 19th work. And one particular candidate in particular I just talked to has a flight
that day, but I think that we can work around that. That shouldn't be an issue based on
scheduling.

So it'll just be a long day. It'll be 4 and 1/2 hours of interviews and some breaks and things like
that. But I think we can logistically probably make it work on the 19th.
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds good. So we'll work out the details. But thank you, Director
Guissinger, for being particularly sensitive to our stakeholders.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Does anybody object to doing them all on the 19th I guess is the
question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you all. I'm going to go through the list of people that I know are
participating in this meeting. We have Director Buzek, Director Cook, Director Williams,
Director Lubow, Director Guissinger, Director Menten, Director Mihalik, Director Tisdale,
Director Walker, and Director Whitmore. I see that there are a number of people who have called
in-- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. At least 14 people on the phone.
I also have-- with us, we have Paul Ballard. We have Gregg Moser, our consultant. And we have
our Board office staff, Miss McManus and Mr. McKay. And also on the line is Zamy Silva, our
Civil Rights Director and others. I do not believe-- Director Menten had asked that our General
Counsel be invited, but I do not see her on the line.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin, Barbara McManus.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just forwarded the invite to the senior leadership team, Melanie
included.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm not sure if they had that on their calendar or not. And Director
Malpiede is having some issues. John is working with her. She'll be signed on in a moment.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, we'll give it-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm on.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, good. Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: And Director-- Madam Chair, Director Lewis will be here as soon as she
can.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Should we give her a minute, or-- you're here, Director Lewis? Did I
hear-- so for the record, the Chair Rivera-Malpiede has joined us by phone. And has Director
Lewis joined? Oh, is Director Folska on the line?
You might need to send her a call-in number again.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, no, no, no, no. I'm here. I was just trying to mute. OK, great. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for joining us, Director Folska. So I believe we are waiting for
Director Lewis. All right. I think I will go ahead and-- there is an echo. I apologize. But I will go
ahead and reconvene the open session at 10:37. I want to thank each and every one of you for
your hard work and great discussion. And I have a text from John McKay saying he's going to
try and mute everyone so that we can get rid of this echo.
So Mr. McKay apparently muted me as well. We have done a lot of really, really good work, had
interviews with some very, very high caliber candidates. And our Board has come to consensus
on moving a slate of three finalists forward for a second round of interviews. And I would like to
entertain a motion to move our finalists forward and to announce their names. Is there a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair? Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please. Are you there?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can you hear me, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Now we can. Yes, Director.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. I would like to make a motion to move
forward the following three candidates as finalists for the General Manager position for the
Regional Transportation District-- Miss Adelee Le Grand, Miss Debra Johnson, and Miss Tina
Quigley.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there a second?
VINCE BUZEK: Second. Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek with a second. Is there discussion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I wish we could get Shontel on. I know she's teaching a class. I don't
know if there's anything else we can do. Did she get back to you, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I believe she's in the middle of teaching. So that's the best we can do.
PEGGY CATLIN: Since this is such an important decision that this board has to make, I would
really like to call each of the individual directors for comments starting with Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: We're just commenting now, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.

PEGGY CATLIN: On the motion.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I thank you, and I thank your Vice Chair Lynn Guissinger. Thank
Gregg Moser, consultant on this. We had a great slate. And we've made this motion with these
three women to move forward in no particular ranking, just the three of them altogether. They're
fantastic candidates. The candidates that didn't make it, I thank them as well, because they were
equally well qualified. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Cook. You're on mute.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I just discovered that. Sorry about that. I agree with Director Buzek. I
first want to thank everybody involved-- you and Director Guissinger, the Board staff, Mr.
Ballard, and of course Gregg Moser. Just really well run process. And we had a great slate of
people. Very difficult choice, but exciting to be moving forward at this point. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also feel like this was a great opportunity to see
that people are interested in RTD, that we have some very, very qualified candidates. I am sorry
we couldn't just hire them all. But I am excited to see that we have three people, one of whom
will end up being our new GM, and that we are moving forward. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Lubow. Director Lubow, are you-JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lubow, are you there? I will circle back to Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Can't unmute.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, there you are. Are you there?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Can you hear me now?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, sorry. Technical troubles. I also wanted to thank our consultant and the
team for a wonderful process and terrific candidates. And, like other people have said, I am so
sorry we couldn't bring everybody forward, because they were very good. So I'm looking
forward to the next stage and ultimately choosing our General Manager. Thank you all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry about that. I think right now the main thing I would want to
focus in on a comment is for this public record, the timeline on public input. And, Mr. Moser, I
was trying to find that latest document that we had, but could you please cover that real quickly

so that anybody who should be on this call or review this recording later out of many sources,
they'll be able to also know that right here and now what will be that public process?
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten, we can probably talk about that under other matters. But
right now we are speaking to the motion. So Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten finished? I guess. I just-- I'll echo what's been said. I
think Gregg Moser has done a great job for us. Peggy-- Director Catlin, thanks for leading the
charge. And I'm excited about our slate. And I appreciate all of the applicants. We had a lot of
good choices. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. Circling back, Director Menten, would you like to speak to the
motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I have nothing to comment on that portion.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Catlin. And yes, this morning has been full of a lot of
discussion about these good candidates. And it's refreshing to have people externally excited
about RTD. And it was an energetic conversation amongst Board members. And there's just a lot
of enthusiasm. And so those are my comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Mihalik. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I have said before that hiring of a
General Manager CEO is the single most important job that this Board has. And the process is
critical to that decision. And I am glad to say that this process has yielded extremely talented
candidates for this position, both the candidates that we are proposing now to move forward as
finalists and those who are not moving forward. It has been a pleasure to be a part of it, and I
congratulate the committee on its hard work. And I congratulate the candidates on their
tremendous presentations. And I look forward to an excellent selection done in collaboration
with all of our stakeholders and all others who will have a voice in this process. And I thank you,
Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So, Director Catlin, thank you for your leadership in this process.
Thank you to Mr. Moser for his skill in bringing us all of the candidates. And like it's been said
before, all of them were really well qualified. Congratulations to these three persons that will be
moving on to the next stage, and I'm looking forward to hearing from the public and going on
with the process. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: By being a Director at the end of the alphabet, I risk being the chair of the
Department of Redundancy Department. But that being said, I echo what my colleagues have
said. It's been an outstanding process. And thanks to all involved. A tremendous amount of work.
Appreciate it and look forward to the next couple of weeks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Are you able to
unmute?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to take this
opportunity to thank you and Vice Chair Guissinger for the amazing work that you've been able
to put together with Mr. Moser in terms of getting some really amazing applicants to move
forward. I would be remiss if I didn't just say this is a historical day for RTD, because one of
these finalists who will become the General Manager will be the first woman in the history of
RTD to lead this agency. And I find that pretty exciting. So thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Was Director Lewis able to join us? I
guess not. Director Folska. Is Director Folska on the line? OK. Are there any directors that I
missed in speaking to this motion? OK. I don't hear anything.
All right, so I guess I wanted to echo some of the comments that were made with regard to this
motion. I am extremely excited to advance these three finalists forward. And as Chair RiveraMalpiede-- it is truly an historic moment. I believe that all of the candidates that we interviewed
were extremely well qualified, and that's what made our discussion this morning so very rich and
very interesting. And I wanted to thank you all for being very, very professional in these
deliberations and very respectful. It was a great process this morning. So I wanted to thank you
for that.
So now I would like to have a vote for moving this slate of three candidates forward. And I will
repeat their names. We have Miss Adelee Le Grand. We have Miss Debra Johnson. And we have
Miss Tina Quigley. And we had a motion and a second. I'd now like to go through the alphabet.
And I think I will go in reverse order this time. And please, for the record, state your vote. Did I
hear somebody get on the line? OK. Director Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair, I had a text from Claudia Folska, who's trying to get back on
and said she was inadvertently muted, couldn't talk even though she was trying to.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I know John McKay tried to mute everyone. And you have to physically
unmute. So I think we've been unmuted because I hear traffic noise. OK. Director Folska-LYNN GUISSINGER: We should make sure she's on, I think.
PEGGY CATLIN: What?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, we should make sure she's on.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Folska, are you on?

BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. I just texted her. Oh, is that her?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. I'm here, and I just found out that I had to press star 6 to unmute
myself even though my own device was not on mute. So the technical problem is solved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great. Director Folska, we are now casting our vote for the slate of three
candidates. We had a motion and a second, and we had discussion. And I did call on you, but I
right now we're in the process of-- or we are starting to cast our votes individually. But I will
give you an opportunity to make any remarks that you might have.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So is that now or later?
PEGGY CATLIN: Now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK. Well, like everyone else has said, I can echo all of those
sentiments. It's been a great process. I feel very excited. Like Chair Rivera-Malpiede said, it will
be a historic moment, because whoever is chosen will be the first woman to lead this agency
forward. And I think I'm really excited about all the candidates. They bring great skills and
competencies. And I'm looking forward to seeing the outcome. And thank you all-- our Board,
Gregg Moser, the GMEC. It's really been a lot of work, and I value and appreciate everybody's
participation and thank you for that. Do you want my vote?
PEGGY CATLIN: Since we're risking technology, maybe we ought to seize that opportunity and
get your vote right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So can you-- am I telling you my top three?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. No. We've already made a motion for the three names that we cited. So
it's just an up or a down-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I agree. Yes. I vote yes. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I definitely vote yes, but I think we skipped Director Williams.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did we? Oh, yes. We did. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm OK if the alphabet goes I or H first. I don't care. But my vote is yes, that
we move these three candidates forward for consideration. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Dr. Whitmore, you were a yes as well.
TROY WHITMORE: Definitely a yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Definitely a yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director-- these might not be in reverse alphabetical order. They're actually
the order that I see you on my screen. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I am an enthusiastic yes. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm a yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes from me. I think it's a great group. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am an enthusiastic yes as well. So we have a couple of absent directors.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Madam Chair, may I cast my vote?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. You did not appear on my screen. How could I forget? Please cast
your vote.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. An enthusiastic yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, have I missed any other Director? Just technology has made me stumble
a little bit here. OK. I believe that-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, I'll note the Director Broom was on the call earlier. I don't
know if he is still with us.

PEGGY CATLIN: Director Broom? I don't know if he is or not. But thank you, Director Tisdale,
for bringing that up. I believe with the exception of our directors who, for some conflicts, were
not able to join us, we have a unanimous vote in favor of our three candidates. And I would like
to congratulate the three women whose names we are forwarding to go through this next process.
We have Miss Adelee Le Grand, Miss Debra Johnson, and Miss Tina Quigley. And
congratulations to all three of them. And I want to-- so I believe we have concluded our vote.
Are there other matters?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, Menten. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are you on-- I'm sorry. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I just was going to agree with Director Menten. It would be good to
go through the process [INTERFERENCE NOISES ].
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Gregg, could you please describe the process moving forward for benefit
of the public and for our Board members?
GREGG MOSER: Yes. Thank you. And I want to also reiterate, just thank you to all the
Directors, everybody's time. This was a lot of hours of commitment. And I want to particularly
thank Directors Catlin and Guissinger, because there were a lot of countless hours spent early,
middle of the day, and late at night talking on the phone and coordinating and working on
logistics behind the scenes to make sure this all went smoothly. So-- and also thank you to Paul
Ballard, because Paul was an instrumental help to help keep everything moving forward and the
process moving forward also. So thank you for your support as well.
In terms of the process moving forward, an announcement's going to go out today from RTD
announcing the three finalists and next stages of the process. We're going to do a couple of
things. We are going to have each of the candidates prepare a presentation of a vision of what
their vision is for RTD under their leadership. And we'll have more details about that to come out
as to exactly what that will look like. And each candidate's presentation is going to be recorded.
And we're going to make those available on RTD's website. Those should be available on RTD's
website at the conclusion of the executive session interviews that the Board members have on-tentatively going to be scheduled on August 19. We'll make those available.
We're also going to make available a survey for members of the public to be able to provide
public input on each of the candidates. So we'll have their cover letters, their resumes, and these
presentations available for everybody in the public to be able to review and to be able to provide
feedback. And again, those presentations-- my understanding is the resumes and the cover letters
will be made available as soon as possible. The presentations-- we need to allow the candidates a
little bit of time to prepare those presentations. Then we've got to schedule time the week of the
17th, beginning of the week of the 17th, to have those presentations recorded. And we're going to
make those, again, available on the 19th for the public.
Those will stay open and available for public comment along with those surveys through
Sunday, August 23, I believe till 11:59 PM. And that's just technically how the system closes

itself out that night. And then the Board will have an opportunity to review all that feedback
along with references and some additional diligence background checks and things like that that
we'll be conducting as we move forward through this final stage of the process. And I believe we
have a executive session scheduled and a public session scheduled tentatively right now for
August 24 and 25.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Gregg. Are there any questions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just had one.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I've been confused about when the decision is made. I thought we had
moved it to the 25th.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Miss McManus, do you want to talk a little bit about that? And before
you get on the line, Barbara, I wanted to thank you personally for all of the work that you've
done with Gregg and with Lynn and myself and the rest of the committee to get all of this-- all of
these parts going in the right direction. And I give a proverbial pat on the back to all of us for
getting through this. So, Barbara, thank you. Do you want to address the Board schedule going
forward?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sorry. Was unmuting, and I have-- of course, the guy is here cutting
my grass right now. So I apologize. So you're just asking about the date on the 25th? I'm sorry. I
missed the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The executive session and open meeting are the 24th and 25th. And that's
sort of been unclear. And I thought it had all been moved so that we were going to making the
decisions the night of the 25th.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I will have to double-check that with my past emails and the calendar
that we have posted right now. I also would like to take the opportunity to thank Nicole, TaiShrae, and John, because I would not be successful without them. Make no mistake.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. And I think we all agree and appreciate all the work done
behind the scenes from your staff and from you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Hi. Director Lewis apologizes for not being able to be there and says
that she's very pleased with the three candidates that we moved forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great. Thank you. Thank you for sharing that. Appreciate it. Gregg Moser?

GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I just want to apologize to Barbara and her team, because I just didn't
think. And it wasn't for lack of all the hard work they've done as well. So I just wanted to thank
them, because they have put a tremendous amount of work behind the scenes as well. So my
apologies for not mentioning it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No apology needed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there other comments? We're going to verify that we are making the
decision on the 25th, which I believe is true. John McKay, do you have any comments about that
or clarification?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It is-- this is Barbara McManus. I just had my team verify. The special
Board meeting is on the 25th. There is another meeting for the Directors on the 24th. And I think
that's what was bringing forth some confusion.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Barbara. Appreciate that. Are there any other comments or
any other matters to bring before the Board today? Well, congratulations on a lot of hard work
and great discussion. And my admiration for this group and ability to get this accomplished has
grown considerably over the last couple of weeks. So thank you. I will entertain a motion to
adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved. Director Williams.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Williams. Second from-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chair Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Malpiede. Do I hear any objections? We are adjourned at 11:02 AM.
Thank you all very much. Have a nice weekend.

