Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

July 13, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
July 12, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair James; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Brohl, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Riley, and Tayer.
Director Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Eric Farrington,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins,
Tyler Kealy, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Bob Medina, Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Massimo Rolle, Jannette Scarpino,
John Shonsey, John Stark, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Christina Tubb,
Bill Van Meter, Mike Washington, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Celina Benevidez – Celina Inc., Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Stan Groneck
– ATU 1001, Lesa Nery, and Anna with Celina Inc.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.

Updates
Terry Howerter noted that there were no action items and both items for tonight are
for discussion and update only.
 May 2011 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod indicated that these figures represent the month of May and as noted
on the top of the handout that was distributed, the sales and use numbers were
received after the packets were sent out. Starting with the May Dashboard, you can
see that the ridership numbers and fare revenue were very good due to factors such
as the U2 concert and other special events in town. Our balance sheet indicates that

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2011
Page 2 of 4

the Base system currently maintains $56 million and the FasTracks system retains
$454 million in cash & cash equivalents; however, we do expect to see the base
system funds deteriorate by the end of the year. Sales and Use tax show the figures
from January of 2010 through May of 2011 and the forecasts for the rest of the
year. While somewhat unexpected, we still anticipate ending the year at 5.1% over
2010.
 2012-2017 Strategic Budget Plan Update
Terry Howerter noted that PowerPoint slides had been passed out to all of the
Directors as a handout for this presentation and this is another update for the 20122017 Strategic Budget Plan. We also wanted to provide a summary of the Board
input following the June 28th Study Session in which various scenarios were provided
to staff and grouped as best as we could. We will be providing option scenarios
based on the Board input both with and without the Leeds update, and have provided
a year end fund balance summary to show where we would be under the various
options.
Jeannette Scarpino explained that on June 28th Finance indicated that they would
continue to monitor sales tax forecasts and we have received a sales tax forecast
update from the CU Leeds School. In that same meeting we discussed the volatility
of sales and use tax revenue, the four year gap from 2007-2011 of nearly $60
million that will not be recovered, our continued fuel cost and collective bargaining
uncertainty, the establishment of a Fund Balance Policy, and reviewed seven options
to resolve the budget shortfall with anticipated Board input.
Terry Howerter indicated that several Board members provided input and the common
primary themes among the Board were to have a fare increase of 5%-25%, a service
reduction of 5%-25%, a hiring freeze, and a build-up of fund balances.
Jeannette Scarpino explained that options 8-14 were created based on Board input
prior to the CU Leeds sales tax update. Two scenarios were provided: The first
based on prior to the CU-Leeds sales tax update and the second based on the CU
Leeds sales tax update. Option 9 is not sustainable due to inability to sustain
operations, and options 10, and 11 are not sustainable due to lack of adequate fund
balance growth.
Terry Howerter added that RTD has always carried a 5% operating reserve. It is very
important to maintain a cash on hand balance since it is looked at and reviewed by
rating agencies.
Bill McMullen noted that we have not quantified what the reduction means whether
it is 2%, 5%, 7% or more, and that as of right now we are only looking at the
numbers. Terry Howerter explained that was correct, and at the July Study Session
we will have a more accurate look at the break down of what each percentage would
actually mean.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2011
Page 3 of 4

General Manager Washington interjected to ensure the Board understood the SBP
update by noting that information from the CU Leeds School improves the sales and
use tax assumptions.
Director James asked if the staff option is an attempt to be representative of the
combined Board input. General Manager Washington indicated that it is an option
based on both staff and Board input. This does not include a fare increase since three
of the past four years, RTD has had yearly increases. We have also analyzed how we
compare with other transit agencies around the country and if we were to have
another fare increase in 2012 we would be one of the highest in the nation.
Director James reiterated that the goal for tonight is to attempt to narrow the options
so that the Board can have a consensus of a basis for the SBP for the study session.
Director Anderson inquired as to what sort of fallback plan was in place in case the
projections from CU Leeds turn out to be inaccurate. Director James noted that the
nature of projecting is that it is done every year; however if there is a downside, it is
included in the projections for the following year. Director Anderson indicated that
she understood the concept, but she was not comfortable with the projections from
CU Leeds because they were not conservative enough and RTD has a history of not
projecting accurately. Director James added that was one of the main reasons we
approached CU Leeds, so that RTD could get input from outside sources.
Director Deadwyler asked if the hiring freeze would be for six years. Jeannette
Scarpino indicated that yes, the hiring freeze would be a permanent fixture for that
six year window with the exception of those positions considered critical by General
Manager Washington.
Director Daly noted that he was one of the Directors that were not in favor of a fare
increase because the fare increase would not help the campaign to raise taxes next
year and would upset the public if presented with both a fare increase and service
reduction next year.
Jeannette Scarpino added that our next steps are to continue to monitor fuel lock
options, being pursuit of alternative revenue sources. We must reach a consensus of
the options presented. They would like to bring the preferred option to the Finance
Administration and Audit Committee on August 9th, and hope to see adoption of the
full SBP by the Board at the August 16th Board meeting.
Director Deadwyler asked if it were possible to add another option to the list in terms
of the suggestion made at the beginning of the year regarding asking for an increases
in taxes for our base business in an effort to minimize the impact on the public that
the proposed service reduction will cause as well as the potential impact to
employees.
Chair Kemp noted that Director Deadwyler’s request would not be feasible at this
time but could be something that the Board considers for the 2013 budget.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2011
Page 4 of 4

Director O’Boyle indicated that he would like to see more cost control in terms of our
non-operational costs and our plan for reducing those and also to our administrative
support organization as well. We need to demonstrate that we are controlling costs
to the public if they must bear the pain of increased fares and taxes.
Director Anderson asked if staff had incorporated the changes suggested by the
Fiscal Sustainability committee that could be implemented immediately and inquired if
they were incorporated into the projections given tonight. Terry Howerter noted that
three options were available for immediate implementation and those were fare
increases, service optimization, and the development of a Fiscal Policy but the
remaining options fell to 2012 or 2013.
Director Cohen inquired as to what flexibility the Board has with regards to making
adjustments to the approved budget should there be an increase in income that
wasn’t projected for. Terry Howerter explained that those adjustments could be made
next July.
Director Cohen further added that he would not be able to support a fare increase for
the third year in a row along with a service reduction. He noticed that the staff did
not recommended touching the Mall Shuttle operations and inquired as to why staff
did not address that. Terry Howerter indicated that the Mall Shuttle had been
discussed several times and it is a costly, yet very beneficial service and there is a
suggestion to look into a value added tax along the corridors where a property tax
could be implemented to assist in the mall shuttle operations. Fare policies on the
shuttle would be difficult, and to reduce service would be very limiting since most of
the shuttles are usually nearly at capacity.
Director Malpiede added that if we decide to do a service reduction, it should be done
across the board and should include the mall shuttle as well.
Director McMullen added that we must increase revenues, but we must address the
operational budget and inquired what the tax rate would have to be so that RTD
would not have to collect any fare.
II.

Other Matters
None

III.

Next Meeting Date – August 9, 2011

IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:32 p.m. to the DBE Committee

