2021 – 03 – 09
Financial Administration Audit Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: So we will begin in about one minute.
OK. I'd like to call to order the Financial, Administration, and Audit Committee at 8:01 PM on March 9, 2021.
And I think that since Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Director Williams have already talked about the protocols
for this, I will suspend with that in the interest of time, just reminding Directors to silence their phones, and
also, if they're on the phone, to use star 9 and star 6 to mute and unmute. And if you would also raise your
virtual hand if you would like to speak.
The safety briefing has already been done, as you know. We have no recommended actions this evening.
So we will move on to discussion items, and we have two of those this evening.
The first one is the Represented Defined Benefit Pension Plan. And our acting CFO and Controller, Doug
McLeod, will now introduce our guests. Please state your name and your titles for the record for this
evening. Mr. MacLeod, the floor is yours. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, Acting Chief Financial Officer
and Controller.
Once a year, we ask the actuaries from each of the Defined Benefit Pension plans to make a presentation
to the Board of Directors to give an update on the financial status of those plans as well as the outlook for
their funding. Back in October of 2020, an update was given to the Board regarding the salaried employee,
non-represented employee Defined Benefit Pension plan. Tonight we will be speaking about the
represented employee pension plan.
With me tonight from Gabriel, Roeder, Smith, the actuarial firm that's contracted with the Amalgamated
Transit Union Pension Trust, is Thomas Lyle, as well as Paul Wood. They are both actuaries with the firm.
I would like to mention a few things before Thomas gets started on his presentation. First of all, thanking
ATU President Longenbohn for allowing the actuaries to come to present and give an update on that
pension plan to the Board of Directors.
And then a few other items. As Mr. Lyle goes through this presentation, you will notice there are some
technical terms, actuarial terms that are included in that presentation. And Mr. Lyle will give, will translate
into layman terms as we go. So just wanted to mention that, since you had the presentation in advance.
You also notice that the actuarial valuation date for the financial evaluation of this plan by the actuaries is
dated January 1st, 2020. That is not a typo. That is how actuaries look at things. So they use the prior year
closing data and then they project forward, using demographic data and a lot of statistical information. So
it is current data that you will be viewing tonight.
The final thing I'd like to mention is that the projections that you will see are all predicated upon the funding
of the plan that's established through the collective bargaining agreement. So you will see two things
primarily. You will see the current funded status and you will also projections going out.
What I'd like to point out with those projections going forward is that we've only included in the analysis
those funding requirements that have been established through the collective bargaining agreement and
haven't carried those forward. So as a reminder, currently RTD contributes 13% of represented employees

wages to the pension plan. The employee contributes 5%. And then RTD also contributes a lump sum each
year of $6.2 million.
As you're aware, the most recent collective bargaining agreement expired on February 28th of this year.
That was extended for another year. Those same terms apply as far as the pension funding goes, 5%
employee, 13% employer, plus $6.2 million. So I point that out because the projections going forward only
include that $6.2 million lump sum assumption in the current year of 2021, and then it falls off after that, to
be determined at a later time through negotiations with the Amalgamated Transit Union.
So with that groundwork set, Thomas, please go ahead and walk us through your presentation. Thank you.
THOMAS LYLE: Hi. Thanks for the introduction, Doug. And so my name is Thomas Lyle. I'm a consultant
with Gabriel, Roeder, Smith and Company as an actuary on this plan. I'm joined today by Paul Wood. He's
here to help out with some questions as needed.
I'll go ahead try to share my screen. Can you guys see my screen?
KATE WILLIAMS: We can.
THOMAS LYLE: Awesome. Thank you.
So just to give you a brief overview of what we're going to talk about, I just wanted to point out some
demographic information for you, followed by the January 1, 2020 valuation results, talk about your
contribution amounts, and then introduce to you some information from the Public Funds Survey that was
asked from prior meetings.
So to start out, we just want to look at the demographic information. So from our 2019 valuation to our 2020
valuation, you'll notice that our population remained fairly stable and our payroll growed. This is kind of what
we expected. But you'll notice that the people who are invested in the plan grows faster, while the people
are not vested in the plan decreases. These are people who are entitled to a benefit once they terminate.
This unvested group essentially makes up those one percenters. So that's about 2/3 of the population is
currently only earning a 1% multiplier, versus the people hired before January 1, 2011, they're earning
2.5%. So this will give you a basic idea on how that's working now.
So next here, just your summary of some valuation results. And I won't go over all these numbers. I just
want to point out a couple of highlights. First of all, the accrued liability continues to grow. And we expect
that to happen as the plan members accrue benefits and time moves into the future. But also, 2019 had a
really good asset return. So you'll see that there was an approximately $36 million increase in the liability,
or the assets on a market value basis. And it's also important to note that the plan did see a good asset
return for the year of 2020, a little over, I believe it was around 14% or so.
But noting that even with a really good percent return here, and for 2019, it was around 19%, so even with
a 19% return, the plan only moved from about 44% funded to just under 50% funded. So that kind of gives
you an idea in a year which the asset return was 2 and 1/2 times the size it was expected to be, the plan
only increased in 6%. So let's just say the point is that the plan is not going to be able to invest its way out
of-- it's not going to be able to invest its way to full funding.
And that's one I want-- I've got to kind of go over a little history of how we got to where we are today. So
over the past 20 years, just shows the funded ratios. The blue line really is your market value. And the
green line is your actuarial value. The green line is just a smooth version of the blue line, essentially. So
the blue line is kind of where we're more focused.
So the plan was well funded back in the early 2000s. And then the dot com bubble happened. You had a
big drop. Then there was a smaller recovery and the plan kind of stagnated around 90% for a while. And

the Great Recession happened. And then around 2011-2012, the plan lowered its discount rate from 8% to
7%. This is the rate at which we value the liabilities. And since then, the plan has not gone above 50%
funded since 2012. And there's a couple reasons for that. And I want to dive into one of them at the moment.
So first of all, I just want to kind of define what an actuarial determined contribution is. Or we'll just for short
call it an actuarial contribution. It's made up of three components. And this is like a number that we would- the actuary calculates and use as a measurement of how sufficient the contribution rate is that the plan is
making in order to meet the plan's obligations.
So there are three components to that. First is your normal cost. And the normal cost is the cost of accruing
one years of benefits. So that's approximately 8.34%. So every year that passes, approximately 8% of the
salary is the value of the service accrued in that year. You'll notice that from the prior year, it has gone down
a little bit. And that's because you have members with higher benefit multipliers terminating and new
members being hired who are earning a lower multiplier.
So next is your amortization component. This is essentially the payment towards that unfunded liability. So
your plan is only about 50% funded. So there's a payment towards that unfunded liability to help get it to a
full funding level. That estimate is around 17.3%. You'll notice that this number also went down since the
prior year, and that was due to those strong asset returns.
And the last piece is your administration expense. So the cost of accruing service, the cost of administrating
the plan, and the cost of paying down your liabilities. So all this together is what we call our actuarial
contribution. So that's about 26% for this plan.
Now when you compare that to what's being contributed per the collectively bargained agreement, it's about
23%. So we're short by about 2.25% or so. And this is just a combination of the contribution rates just put
in the percentage of payroll. That's the 13%, the 5%, and the $6.2 million expressed as a percentage of
payroll.
So I mentioned before, we haven't made a lot of, much progress over the past 12 years. And so a part of
the reason is when we compare the actual contributions towards what was our actuarial contribution versus
what is actually contributed to the plan, the purple lines represent what was calculated as the actuarial
contribution and the green lines represent what is actually contributed. And you see that over time, while
the actual contributions are increasing, they haven't been keeping up with what we've calculated from the
actuarial perspective.
For this last line, we haven't filled in that number yet, but we would expect it to be a little bit short. But
depending on how payroll worked out, it may or may not be higher or lower.
Next, I want to talk about the public funds survey. Last time I was here, there were some questions about
how the RTD plan compares to other plans. So just wanted to kind of point out a couple of things. So this
is the public fund survey that's established by NASRA. And this graph here shows the distribution of funded
ratios by each of these plans. So RTD being just below 50% is in the nine percentile down here. The majority
of plans we see in the public sector are between
60% to 70% to 90% to 100%. So this is where the majority of plans are. So RTD is lagging a little behind
on that.
Next, this was-- I believe this was the question specifically that was asked last year is how does the
contribution amount compare to other plans? And you'll see that 26% is almost right in the middle of the
pack on this, for what is contributed for a plan. So you're right in this neighborhood here, which is where
the bulk of people, bulk of the plans are.

And lastly, this is your normal cost. Again, the normal cost is the cost of accruing a benefit in any given
year. And RTD's in this group.
So this just gives you a basic summary and the numbers, for those who like to see numbers instead of
graphs.
Next, I just want to talk about a couple of things related to COVID-19. And these are just things that may or
may not happen. And I'm just going to give you an idea of how it impacts the plans. So currently, there was
some ideas the returns could be potentially lower than expected moving forward. And this would be
potentially some continued market volatility. Lower returns than expected would put upward pressure on
the contributions needed. Additionally, if you had smaller than expected population or if you had lower than
expected payroll growth, there would be upward pressure on that needed contribution as well.
So in summary, even though the plan has been getting good assets returns over the past couple years,
they're still going to need additional contribution in order to achieve that full funding goal.
And with that, I'll open it up to anybody that has any questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. Appreciate your presentation. I'd like to open it up to Directors, if
they have any questions. I see Director Cook has a question.
SHELLEY COOK: A couple quick ones. You had a slide where you showed the discount rate. And I took
that to mean that that's the rate we assume the investments will earn over time. So when you lowered it,
which seemed reasonable to me, that increased our, that decreased our coverage at that point. Is that
correct, Mr. Wood? Is that what you showed there?
THOMAS LYLE: Correct. So when we lower the discount rate, it increases the liability to the plan, because
we're essentially discounting expected benefit payments in the future. So that lowers our funded ratio, when
you lower the discount rate.
SHELLEY COOK: Right. That's just verifying what I thought was true.
You had a slide where you showed the differences between 2019 and 2020. I thought that-- is that 0.23,
should that be a negative, showing the change from 2019 to 2020?
THOMAS LYLE: Yeah. So it did go down 0.23, correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. No worries. I don't mean to point it out as an error, just wanted to double check.
So Doug MacLeod, didn't we have a sort of schedule that Heather would show us about where we'd be
going forward year after year after year, and we'd finally be on top of it by about 2040-something? Can you
refresh my memory? Is that still our plan?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, this is Doug MacLeod. So one of the goals that the trustees had set on the
represented plan was to be at least 70% funded in this plan in 30 years. And I believe that time horizon was
in the 2040s, mid 2040s is how it projected out. The 70% number was arrived at because 70% or above is
considered to be in that yellow area, still caution but not obviously as bad as a 50% funded ratio.
One of the things, though, that I think is important is if you were to look at that projection going forward, is
that, as Mr. Lyle had pointed out, we have a population of the employees that were hired after a certain
date that only vest at 1% per year. So that means that after 30 years, they would be entitled to 30% of their
pay once they retire. The other group who preceded them continues to vest at 2.5%. So after 30 years,
they would get 75%. Both groups are contributing the same 5% of their payroll.
So what's happening over time is those older grandfathered employees terminate, the newer employees
are actually bringing back the health of the plan, to a certain extent. So if you were to look at it over time,
the funding requirements actually drop down because the benefit payments decrease significantly.

So we kind of have this hump in terms of being underfunded for a period of time and then if we were to
continue contributing at the rate we're contributing, we'd become overfunded. So what we've tried to do is
balance those two so that we have a target of getting to a certain percentage funding over time without
unduly burdening the agency with additional outflows of cash.
SHELLEY COOK: For what it's worth, I wouldn't mind seeing alternative scenarios for bringing that date
forward, different contribution rates and the effect of that going forward. So thank you. Thanks, all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. I don't see who got their hand up first. But in my order, it looks
like Director Dishell is next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you for the great presentation. Really appreciate
it.
I'm wondering, maybe I'm just missing this, but what percentage of our employees actually convert from
non-vested to vested, and how does that impact our modeling, and are we seeing any general trends sort
of over time of the amount of employees who end up vesting? Is that going up or down?
THOMAS LYLE: So I would speculate-- and Doug may have more information on that-- that you're seeing
that number go down. Because that newer group has a 10-year vesting versus a 5-year vesting. So I would
just speculate that purely based on that alone, you're seeing fewer people over time. However, we are
going to do an experience study this year, and we can have more information on that for you when next
time we come.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Well, I mean, the answer is they don't-- we don't have the answer. But we're getting it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right.
PAUL WOOD: A little bit of color to that, if you don't mind.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
PAUL WOOD: Paul Wood with GRS. You know, as Doug alluded to, you've got this benefit tier that is 1%.
And it's significantly lower than the benefit tier for those folks who are already vested or who are in that
2.5%. So one of the things that we would expect to see when the benefit level is around that point is a fair
amount of turnover earlier in the career. And so that's something we're going to be keeping an eye on for
the experience study to see if those termination rates that we're currently using are doing a good job of
modeling your population.
So when we do all these projections, we have these rates that are built in there that say, x% of the population
that has one year of service is going to leave after that year. And then if you survive the second year, then
there's another percent that's going to leave after that time. And so we develop these tables of rates to
model that population to get a sense of what that churn is. And we see a lot of that churn usually within the
first few years of service.
And in particular, with a plan who's vesting is extended, like this plan, where you've got 10 years vesting,
we might even see more churn all the way up until that 10-year period, until they reach that point at which
they are vested in their benefit. And then maybe after that point, the likelihood of them sticking around within
the plan is a little bit higher.

But that's something that we're going to keep a serious eye on, because that benefit level is going to help
inform that decision, not only the experience that's played out in the last couple of years but also what do
we think is going to happen in the future as we have new members coming in accruing that benefit level.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Wood. Director Dishell, did that answer your question? I do have a
comment to that point, though. And then I'll go to Director Lewis.
One of the-BOBBY DISHELL: I'm all set. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. One of the state audit findings was that we have a difficult time retaining new
operators, represented employees. And this might be another one of those factors where we're not able to
retain operators for much more than a couple years.
I would actually be interested to understand what-- and I don't know if it would be too much trouble-- what
the difference in a 5 year vesting period would be versus 10 year, even if the rate is the same. That was
something I was familiar with at the state of Colorado. So it was just, rather than waiting the whole 10 years
to become vested, if there might be some incentive to be vested at a 5-year milestone. Just curious.
And you don't have to answer that today. And I can talk to Mr. MacLeod about that a little bit later.
Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate your question, because I had the same question.
It's my understanding that non-represented folks are vested in five years. And so I was curious of that exact
same thing, understanding that represented employees are vested in 10 years.
I have a question. And I tried to jot it down so that I can ask it succinctly. But I don't know if it's going to
happen. And so Thomas, I hope you just, you stay with me. You spoke-- I guess I'm curious as to the folks
that we anticipate will be near retirement age in the next-- I think it said 2040-- but like in the next 10 years,
20 years, 30 years. And what does that mean like for actual people, in their actual lives, beyond the
numbers?
THOMAS LYLE: I'm not exactly sure what you're asking. But as far as what we're looking at from an
actuarial perspective, there'll be money in the plan, at least based on our projections, there'll be money
around to pay the benefits. So from a consumer perspective, like the participant in the plan, they're
concerned about getting their benefit, right, getting paid when they retire. So there's currently $246 million
in the plan as of January 1, 2020. And there's $490 million in liability.
But if you look at the benefit flows, the benefits aren't going to draw that down. So when the contribution's
coming in, and there's going to be plenty of money in the plan. It's just a matter of, well, can we fully fund
that liability, and how do we get there?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So there would never be a scenario in which someone who is fully vested would not
have access to their benefits, based on the projections that you all have presented today.
THOMAS LYLE: We do not expect the plan to run out of funds based on this current financial situation and
our assumptions. However, that doesn't mean there isn't a scenario that does exist. So-SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll accept that. Thank you. I appreciate that.
THOMAS LYLE: Too many actuarial words.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, fair enough. One more question for you. So if the contributions would have been
made over the years-- OK, let me make sure I'm asking this correctly-- If the contributions would have been
made over the years, would the fund be fully funded today?

THOMAS LYLE: It's hard to say exactly where the fund would be. However, it's important to say that every
plan in the public sector experienced these same three major events that we pointed out that impacted this
plan's funded ratio. Every plan had that drop off in the early 2000s, every plan had felt the Great Recession,
and there's been downward pressure on the discount rate for all plans across the board.
But if we look at this slide, we show where all the peer group of RTD is. So you'll see that not many of them
are fully funded. You only have a handful of them that are over 100% funded. But they're further along
because they were making those contributions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. So what would it take to get us into-- oh, you can't see me pointing at my
computer-THOMAS LYLE: You pointed at something, though.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am pointing at something-- to get us into that 60%, 70% range, or 70% to 80% range
that other agencies might be doing.
THOMAS LYLE: Well, I think the answer to that is always the same thing, time and money. I don't have a
contribution amount off the top my head that would answer that question. But essentially it would be
continued contributions to the plan and a commitment to set that goal and achieve it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. But at a higher rate. But you just don't know what that would be. Is that-- am I
understanding-THOMAS LYLE: Right. I don't have that number off the top of my head to say what does it get to this level.
But it would be additional contributions for sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I would be curious to know what some scenarios might look like for us to get
closer to being fully funded and not 2040, but maybe a bit sooner. I'd just be curious to know what it would
take, as one individual Board Director. Thank you, Thomas and Paul, so much for this presentation. I really
appreciate it.
THOMAS LYLE: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. I also see that Director Davidson would like to speak.
Another thing that occurred to me, I would actually like to see what percentage of our operating costs are
attributable to these pension funds and what, if any, has been the growth over time in that percentage as it
relates to operating. I'm just curious about that.
The other thing I wanted to point out, before I call on Director Davidson, is that this committee meeting is
not open for public comment, and if you would like to provide a comment to a Director after the meeting or
send an email to staff, you're welcome to do so. But that I do see one person on the attendee list who has
his hand up. And we're not taking public comment on this at the time. Thank you.
OK, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you very much for the presentation here. I
had two related questions, just historical, and I apologize for backing up here. But did the change in the
benefit multiplier from 2.%% to 1%, that was 2011, I believe, did that coincide with the vesting change from
5 to 10 years as well?
THOMAS LYLE: Yes, that's a part of, I believe, was Amendment 22, the vesting change and the multiplier.
And then there was a handful of other things that I don't recall off the top of my head.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. And then just also just a little more history. At one point-- and Mr.
MacLeod, you had explained this to me-- we were at a 2% benefit multiplier. We increased to a 2.5%.
Where did that happen in our chart on packet page 69 there?

PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod, go ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. So it's, I believe it was right around 2000. I don't know,
Thomas, we both weren't here, but I believe during that time. So you can see where we start out in 2000,
we were over 100% funded in this plan. If you were to look back in prior years, it was still at that level.
So what the thought process was at the time is that the plan is well funded, we can probably offer additional
benefits. So it was agreed to to increase that multiplier from 2% to 2.5%. And that has obviously contributed
to some of the shortfalls that we have going forward, because we weren't funding it effectively to match that
2.5% with the combination of the market returns decreasing.
A couple things I like to point out is one of the things that you see it to the far right on this slide is that the
reason why that line is flattened and hasn't continued to decrease, particularly in the years, well, beginning
in 2013, the collective bargaining agreement required additional contributions. So I believe the ratio used
to be the employer contributed 8% and the employee contributed 3%. Each successive year, up through
2018, that increased by a few percentage points each year, until we reached 2018 and we've stayed at that
level of, excuse me, 13% and 5%. And then we also added in the $6.2 million kicker in 2018.
What that's accomplished, as Tom had showed in the prior slide, is that the required funding is about 26%
of wages. And we're funding it at about 23%. So they're very close. There is still some net outflows to pay
benefits, that difference between the 23% and the 26%. Most of that is being paid through investment
earnings. So that's allowed the plan to maintain this flat status in spite of the fact that we've had additional
retirees, et cetera, and other changes throughout.
So we're encouraged by that fact that we've stopped the bleeding, but there's obviously more work to do in
terms of getting this funding back in a better position.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So thank you very much for that. That's extremely helpful. So if I understand, prior to
adding that kicker in 2018, we were looking at an eventual fund depletion, 30 years out or somewhere
around there.
THOMAS LYLE: Yeah, absolutely. I believe it was actually, if you went back and looked at some of those
projections a couple of years ago, before we instituted this additional funding, I believe it ran out of money
in 2032.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. Appreciate that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. When somebody leaves RTD before they vest, what are they
paid back?
THOMAS LYLE: Doug, you're probably best to answer to that question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, Director Broom. So if an employee leaves before they
fully vest, they're entitled to receive back their 5% contributions plus a small interest earning each year, I
believe it's 3%. So they get back what they put in plus a little bit of interest. And they can cash that out. I
believe they have the opportunity to leave that in as well and wait till their retirement eligibility date and take
those benefits, as long as they're vested.
So if they work 10 years, leave, they're not 60. I believe it's 60 is the eligible retirement date, maybe 65.
They could leave their money in the plan and still draw benefits once they reach that retirement age. But if
they're not vested, they get cashed out with interest.

BOB BROOM: Thank you. You know, it's ironic, but a lot of new employees are more interested in getting
up front cash in their paychecks, rather than paying more into their pension plans to improve the actuarial
soundness of the plan or to improve benefits. So you've got a lot of give and take between the membership
of a pension plan, because the ones closer to retirement obviously have other thoughts about that. Thanks.
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, may I?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, please, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. One thing else I'd like to just remind the Board of is that all employees for
RTD, whether they're in the Defined Benefit Pension Plan or just the retirement plans, where RTD
contributes money, all employees contribute to Social Security. So that is kind of a unique occurrence with
a governmental agency.
So for instance, if you're a state employee in PERA, you do not contribute to Social Security but you do
qualify for the PERA benefits. In our case, not only are we and the employees contributing the 13% and
5% and $6.2 million towards the benefit, the Defined Benefit Pension Plan, but the employee also must pay
the, what is it, 6.2% of their wages towards Social Security, and then the employer matches that with 6.2%
into Social Security as well.
In the past, with prior General Counsel, we did look into that to see if there were any options perhaps that
we could discontinue participating in Social Security for those Defined Benefit Pension Plans and take that
funding and contribute it towards their pension plan. The ruling from our General Counsel was that that was
not an option.
So unfortunately, we're contributing-- there's a significant amount of money going towards both plans. But
I just wanted to point that out.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, that train left-- that train left the station probably in the early '80s. Because
municipalities did have the option of being able to drop out of Social Security, and then that was stopped.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Director Broom, was your question answered?
BOB BROOM: Yeah. That's all I had. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, to reiterate what Mr. MacLeod said, if you look at the collective contribution of both
employees and RTD, it is pretty considerable, especially when you factor in the $6.2 million cash
contribution. That's why I was interested in the percentage of the overall contribution.
Are there any other Board members who would like to pose a question or-- Director Broom, did you still
want to pose a question? I see [INTERPOSING VOICES].
BOB BROOM: No, I'm finished.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I just saw your hand was raised and I didn't know if that-- OK, any other questions?
Well, thank you, Mr. Lyons and Mr. MacLeod, we really appreciate it.
Moving on, our second discussion item is internal audit activities. And our Manager of Internal Audit, Ann
Marie Isaac-Heslop, will be giving a presentation. But I wanted to point out to Board members that we are
taking the state audit recommendations very seriously. And one of the things that was pointed out was that
there wasn't regular interaction with Internal Audit and the Board. And this is our first step at trying to do
regular updates and status reports and everything, where we are, not only with implementing the state audit
recommendations, but also just so the Board is aware on a regular basis during this committee what our
Internal Audit group is doing.

And I'll turn the meeting over to Ann Marie, to Ms. Isaac-Heslop, but I also, at some point, would like to call
on Vice Chair Erik Davidson, as well as General Manager CEO Debra Johnson to maybe add any
comments that they would like to add.
So Ann Marie, the floor is yours. Thank you.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: So Madam Chair, members of the Board, ladies and gentlemen, this is Ann
Marie Isaac-Heslop, Manager of Internal Audit. I am going to attempt to share my screen. I tried it earlier,
so hopefully it'll work. And is it working?
PEGGY CATLIN: Not quite.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: There we go, I think.
PEGGY CATLIN: There you go.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Now one kind of thing that I need to figure out is how do I forward to the
next page of my presentation.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe you could probably do an arrow key.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: So I'm not really-- oops.
PEGGY CATLIN: There you go.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Oh, OK. So let me start. So I'm doing a brief update on internal audit
activities. What we're going to touch on today, we're going to touch on the standards, we're going to touch
in current activities, and then we're going to do next steps. And I know that it's late and this presentation
isn't-- it's not very long.
Why are we doing standards? Well, the standards were mentioned, basically, in the state audit, and it was
also mentioned in the peer review. Now there are two different sets of standards here. One, the first one is
the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Audit. Now these provide a framework
for performing and promoting internal audit services and they foster improved organizational processes and
standards. These standards are from the IIA and they provide mandatory guidance, the internal audit
definition, and code of ethics.
The second set of standards that I have is the Information Technology Audit framework. And these are for
IT audit. Now these address IT audit and assurance roles and responsibilities, ethics, professional and
personal conduct, and required knowledge and skills. They also define all the IT terms and concepts, and
they provide guidance and techniques for planning, performing, and reporting on IT audit and assurance
engagements.
Now the current activities. The 2020 state audit, completed in January 2021, that fulfilled the requirements
of the RTD audit every five years by the state. The audit section of the report could be found using the link
that is in the presentation. There were several recommendations, because it was found that RTD had not
utilized its internal audit unit to effectively address and respond to organizational risks. It was
recommended, therefore, that the agency improve the internal audit unit's effectiveness and compliance
with internal audit standards and also establish procedures and expectations for the unit to be utilized,
supervised, and evaluated.
There were recommendations in the state audit, several recommendations on risk assessment,
independence, Board communication with Internal Audit, audit time frames, internal and external quality
assessments. And all these were agreed by the Board and with a completion date for implementing the
recommendations by December, 2021.

Now because of the state audit and in view of improving internal audit, I believe it was General Manager
Johnson asked for a peer review. And that peer review is being conducted by APTA currently. The
objectives of the peer review-- and I want to read them out-- are assessing the efficacy of fulfilling the Boardapproved charter goals, compliance with audit standards and practices, division reporting structure
compared to other agencies, internal audit division functions in comparison to similar agencies, current
employee knowledge, skills, and abilities and technical knowledge, adequacy of report documents, and
audit recommendations follow-up practices.
Now this is currently taking place, and we expect the report from the peer reviewers-- and I have it in like
weeks, but within the next month, I would say. So currently, what Internal Audit is doing, we are still working
on the approved 2020 audit plan. We have some audits at the top that we are working on. And we're also
monitoring, still continuously monitoring cyber security. We have some audits that will come up fairly soon,
in March, and then another couple that we're working on that would be finalized in May, 2021.
The next steps, we are-- this is the steps that we are working on. But we will be working on this with basically
the Board, the General Manager and CEO, and the SLT, for the most part, for all of it, assessing the peer
review corrective actions and recommendations and implementation. We expect that by quarter 2 of this
year. We are looking at draft risk assessment and having a final risk assessment, again with collaboration
from the Board, the General Manager and CEO, and SLT. And we will also develop a risk-based annual
audit plan for 2021 and 2022, with input from, again, the Board, the General Manager, and SLT.
And so all through the presentation, we're reiterating what Director Catlin said. We are working together
with the Board, the General Manager, and SLT in putting some of the recommendations in place and
eventually improving the activity for Internal Audit.
With that, I would say I would be happy to answer any questions that anyone would have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ann Marie. I really appreciate your brief presentation. And I would mention to
the Board that we will be doing these on a much more regular basis. And we'll have opportunity to
communicate all of this back and forth.
And I think I might yield to General Manager CEO Debra Johnson to talk about how this particular activity
will be iterative and will integrate with the-- just a minute. I got a text message-- will iterate with, or iterate
and we can discuss how we move forward to develop a really, really robust audit plan. And I am going to
implore upon all of you, as Directors, that we do need to engage. And as we go through our strategic
planning process that is planned for later this spring, that we utilize the information that we glean from that
to really provide meaningful input to Ms. Isaac-Heslop so that we can develop a meaningful audit plan as
we move forward.
Ann Marie, would you mind turning on your video, so that we can see you as you respond to some of the
questions? We appreciate that. Right now, you're just a gray square. OK. Thank you.
I do see that there are a couple of Directors-ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Am I there now?
PEGGY CATLIN: There you are Thank you.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks for joining us. I appreciate it. I'd first like to-ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I forgot.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's OK. You know what, as we move forward with these more regularly scheduled
meetings, we'll all become a little bit more comfortable.

I would like CEO GM Debra Johnson to make a few comments, as well as Director Erik Davidson. And then
I see that Director Broom has his hand up. And I noticed that Director Lewis did as well, but she took it
down. So let's first go to Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you, Ms. Isaac-Heslop, for your
presentation. I appreciate the opportunity to address you all pertaining to our internal auditing functions.
And just as you heard from the chair of our committee, as it relates to the internal auditing function, I think
basically this is an opportunity for us to have a jump-off point relative to being more engaged with Ms. IsaacHeslop as it relates to leveraging the opportunity to look at our internal operations and garnering whether
or not we are capitalizing on efficiencies.
Recognizing that there were some recommendations set forward by the State auditor, I believe that this is
in our best interest as we're leveraging the American Public Transportation Association's peer review
capabilities, leveraging our internal auditing functions. I think this sets us on a trajectory whereby we can
enhance what we're doing now and, in relationship to the ongoing peer review, be able to garner some
valuable input that will assist you all collectively on discerning what our path forward is.
And so with that as a backdrop , having Ms. Isaac-Heslop incorporate into her normal activities and
incorporating into her normal activities an opportunity for her to come before this committee on a recurring
basis will better enable all of you to have an understanding of what's happening and then shape things as
we go forward. So in that regard, I have been meeting with Miss Isaac-Heslop on a more frequent basis, in
tandem with Director Katelin-- Catlin, excuse me, I apologize-- and Director Davidson. It's late.
I think we have an opportunity to go forward and make some steps toward capitalizing on what we have
here. So that's what I wanted to share. And I will yield the floor to the Vice Chair of the committee, Mr.
Davidson, to put forward any comments that he has. So thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you for the comments, Ms. Johnson. And thank
you for the presentation, Ms. Isaac-Heslop. Very much appreciate the opportunity to get this started and
move through this.
I do want to point out to the Board, to me, this has become a very serious issue on my mind, just looking at
this as a Board function. Audit and risk assessment is a Board function. And the 2020 state audit, I would
really encourage all Board members to really particularly read through pages 58 through 70, which go into
the internal audit and recommendations. Alarmingly, there's some similarities to the 2010 audit. And I think
we have some very serious problems in terms of the engagement of this Board on the audit function.
One of the recommendations-- I won't go through all of these-- that I would call attention to is reporting
structure. And the audit function, as Ms. Isaac-Heslop has noted for us, needs to be independent and free
of influence. And while there can be the administrative line into the CEO and General Manager, or potential
other avenues within an organization, the functional reporting should come into the Board of Directors,
which is something that has been called out by the audit.
So I appreciate the opportunity to speak about it, Madam Chair. I just would like to point out to the Board
the seriousness of this. Obviously, there are some issues that the Board needs to be involved in to be
looking at where we can be better and optimize as an organization. But there are some things that are
functions that are owned by a Board of Directors. And this is one of them. This is one of the biggies. And
we've gone 10 years now from an audit and having another audit that said something similar.

So I look forward to seeing the APTA audit. I just would also like to stress I'd like to work with all of you to
find a good solution here. And let's make 2021 the year that we solve this problem and get a good function
going. And again, Ms. Isaac-Heslop, thank you for the presentation. I appreciate it. I know this is a tough
function, in that there are kind of these different actors. So that's certainly not lost on me. Thank you for
walking us through that. I'll yield the floor back. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. I completely agree with the seriousness of this Board
responsibility. And I've been trying to beat the drum for about three years. And I think that we finally turned
the corner and have an opportunity here to really move this responsibility and this obligation of the Board
forward.
I know Director Dishell had some questions about the credentials of the peer review team. And they will be
providing their respective credentials included in their report. But I have every confidence in the capabilities
of these folks. They are just stellar individuals in the industry. And we, I think we really got a great team,
and they're working very hard on this.
And to that point, when we talk about the reporting structure and some of the governance issues, that peer
review team will be coming up with some options for us to consider. And Director Davidson and I have
talked about perhaps coming forward with some sort of a resolution that would memorialize that a little bit
more. But we wanted to wait until we got the recommendations from the APTA peer review committee.
So I won't dominate this conversation anymore. But I do see Director Cook has her hand up. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you very much. And mostly I just want to say thanks. And I really appreciate
the level of attention to detail and seriousness being lent to this by everybody, including General Manager
Johnson. I think it's really needed and important. And I feel so good about what you're doing. So thank you.
I did want to hark back to the audit recommendations, which entail, or may entail, a modification to our
bylaws and/or committee charters. And we committed to doing that by the end of the year. So I just, I know
you are. But in terms of time frame, I didn't see how that's laid out. I want to make sure we're keeping that
in mind, to the extent that the findings call for that. Then we'd need to allow enough time to go through that
process toward the end of the year.
So thank you. Thank you all very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. That's a good point. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. And after speaking with General Manager and
CEO Johnson, just learning more about the APTA peer review process, I am-- on a different APTA peer
review matter-- I am confident as well in the APTA peer review credentials.
I also really want to emphasize the importance of audit. It's one of the first things we learn in corporate
compliance at school. It's one of the first things we tell clients in private practice, which is audit need to be
independent. And I think it is-- I appreciate those who have been beating the drum before I got here. And
it's past time that we are really serious not only about making sure audit is independent, but also that we
put some more-- not to try and not mix metaphors here-- but try to ensure compliance with audit
recommendations and do what we can as a Board to make sure that those get implemented. Because from
what I heard in the past that there's a lack in implementation, from recommendation to implementation of
internal audit in the way that that gets rolled out.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good point. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am actually really excited about this renewed energy. I think
it's going to be great. I really appreciate our General Manager and her leadership, and also the two cochairs in this work.
I wanted to go back to the comment about our strategic plan. Because I just wanted to level set that. To
Director Cook's point, we talked about a commitment to the end of the year. But I just want to make sure
that we're managing our own expectations that we aren't going to be held to a 2021, December 31 deadline,
but rather that we get it right and we do it the right way and however long that takes. And so just wanted to
say that, because I think it's important that we keep saying that, as we're building out our strategic plan,
and we're not binding ourself to arbitrary deadlines that might cause us to not have the best outcomes in
terms of a strategic plan.
And then the second, I actually had a question regarding the contracting process. And this one, I have a
question. Because this recently came up as a concern, and so I was just curious as to what that might entail
in terms of the contracting process, like what are you looking for in terms of maybe efficiencies or outcomes
or recommendations?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm not sure I quite understand the question. Are you talking about our external contracts
and how those are audited?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, so on packet page 85, it says, RTD contracting process in progress, final report,
end of May, 2021. And so I'm just curious as to what that entails.
PEGGY CATLIN: Miss Marie? Yes. Ms. Isaac-Heslop.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK. So Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop here, Manager of Internal Audit. In the 2020
audit plan, the overall objective reads as follows. Review for compliance by both parties with the terms of
the contract, review of invoice approval process.
So basically, what we are going to be looking at, we're going to be looking at our own internal contracting
process and the way we adhere to our contracting process, as it is written.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. Is there-- with any of the current activities, what opportunity will the Board have
in terms of input?
Maybe I can connect with you offline. I'm thinking of a specific thing that someone recently brought to me
as it pertains to contract. But the process of contracting, but I would just be curious as like what, when
would the Board have any opportunity to provide some input, individual Board members or collectively?
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might respond. Excuse me, Ms. Isaac-Heslop. That, I would think, Director Lewis, that
we could, if that was of concern to you, that we could maybe incorporate that into an audit plan going
forward, if it was of great interest to the rest of the Board. And we don't want to get, as you said, too far
down the road. So it's our hope that the results of this peer review, which should happen in the next couple
of months, that we can then incorporate that into our strategic planning process and then develop a very,
very specific audit plan that prioritizes those audits that would align with the goals of the agency, and then
along with that, provide necessary resources and budget to achieve that.
And one of the reasons that the 2021-2022 time frame was put in there was because we're not going to be
completing these activities probably until later in the summer, which would not give a lot of time to complete
a substantial number of audits. And so that was kind of why there was a carryover to 2022.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. Thank you for that clarity, Director Catlin. If I might ask you a follow-up question.
What would be different as we move forward as a collective in ensuring that we are adhering to, or
implementing, or executing on, the recommendations that might come from our audit department?

PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I think that as far as Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop indicated, this is an iterative process
with the SLT and the Board. And so it's not going to be just a one and done, here's our recommendation.
We're going to have a discussion to make sure that aligns with the strategic priorities.
I might want to yield to General Manager CEO Debra Johnson, if she wants to add to that a little bit.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: No, your thoughts about how that all meshes together.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And a couple of thoughts. As it relates to
the question you posed, Director Lewis, there is a myriad of different things that could happen. And what I
mean by that, recognizing that there needs to be input garnered from the Board relative to what risks are
associated with this agency, there's a couple of steps that need to be taken, i.e., a risk assessment to
discern what we should have a laser focus on as we go forward to ensure that we are maximizing the
efficiencies from the agencies and being good stewards of taxpayer dollars.
So with that as a backdrop in reference to soliciting that input, there could be one-on-one interviews done
with each Board member, very analogous to what the peer review is doing. There could be surveys that
are leveraged as well. And that information could be shared collectively, and then basically get consensus
among the Board about what those elements should be based upon the aforementioned, i.e., the risk
assessment and how we came to that and what's a higher risk for the agency as a whole.
In reference to the senior leadership team, I think if anything, it's basically with me being the General
Manager CEO having an opportunity to confer with all of you all collectively, looking at what the risks are,
of course, with input from the senior leadership team. But right now, from my understanding, that was done
previously. Ms. Isaac-Heslop was doing it independently by getting information, by disseminating emails,
and there could be something that one individual put forward but it wasn't synthesized in such a way that
would be of the betterment for the agency as a whole.
So I think as we go forward, we have to have a methodology, we have to be intentional about what it is that
we're doing. And getting to the point that Director Lewis raised relative to having strategic priorities, that's
one thing for certain, doing a risk assessment, if we identify those, as I envision going forward, then we
could say this falls underneath the auspices of exercising financial accountability or it falls under the
auspices of improving safety and service quality, if those were things-- and I'm just using this for discussion
purposes-- relative to what strategic priorities could consist of, and that would be a determining factor to
help lay out what the plan is that would be adopted by this body. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I really appreciate that specificity and that level of detail. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. Did that answer all your questions, Director Lewis? Good. Perfect.
Director Sloan, you've been very patient.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Not at all. I really feel privileged to follow CEO GM Debra Johnson. Because I just
wanted to point out not only is the audit process inextricably missed with strategic planning, it's also part of
the Board's responsibility to do the evaluation of the General Manager. So this is sort of a coming attractions
teaser that the Board will also be dealing with the recommendations from the Oversight Committee, and
the Oversight Committee will be seeking the Board's guidance on the evaluation process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for those comments, Director Sloan. Are there any other comments?

Well, I think that we're off to a good start here. And I'm really encouraged that we're embracing this and
moving forward deliberately with our improvements to our internal auditing function. So thank you, Ms.
Isaac-Heslop, for your presentation and for the thoughtful comments from Board members, or committee
members.
Are there any other matters to bring before this committee? Oh, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had a question for Ms. Johnson.
The new COVID relief bill contains funds for transit. And the question is, is that just a list of earmarks or is
that money going to be distributed based on former existing formulas?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Director Broom. That is a good question. And that's what folks
have been talking about, waiting to see how it all folds out as it relates to tomorrow. But basically, as it
shakes out-- and Director Guissinger's smiling, as we've been having conversations around this-- we're not
too certain. It looks as if, as you know, it's amongst party lines right now. The Democrats are trying to bring
back the earmarks. So we will soon have an understanding, because you're talking about this latest round
in reference to the 30.5, correct, sir? Yeah, OK.
Yeah, we will apprise you once we actually know. Once there is a bill that's signed by the president and we
have an understanding of what that is, I will ensure that we disseminate information to all of you all,
recognizing what it will be going forward.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you. That's all I have.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you, sir.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I believe Director Guissinger was next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair Catlin. Very quickly, just wanted to give a quick update on the
Accountability Committee. They're moving along apace now. And we've had some really interesting
meetings in the last couple of weeks, especially the subcommittee meetings. The governance
subcommittee was looking at our partnerships. And people from Denver, from Boulder County, from VIA,
Lonetree, there are a couple of others that spoke about-- and some of our staff spoke about some of our
partnerships. Very interesting.
And all of these are available, if you haven't seen them. I know a number of you do try to attend. But that
one I think is worth listening to. We might try to-- I would love to try to bring some of those in over time to
the Communication and Government Relations Committee, start back up where we were bringing outside
people in for 10 or 15 minutes at the beginning again.
The Finance Committee took a first shot at Northwest Rail, had an interesting discussion. And there were
no conclusions. I think they're a long way from-- I mean, we'd love to have them find conclusions, right? But
they did, several people did say that they like the idea of moving forward with the design work.
And then the Operations Committee, there was an interesting, I think a very good discussion that Paul
Hamilton helped with part of, and Kristin Trestman, who is on the Accountability Committee, helped with
talking about Access-A-Ride and paratransit and some of those services and some of the things that we're
doing and how we compare with other agencies.
So I think, although we thought it was happening before and it got bumped, I haven't seen the agendas for
next week, but I think the Governance Committee is going to be talking about these potential local service
councils or subregional councils that we sent the draft out on. So just giving you the update, if you have
questions or comments. Several of you did send comments, so I appreciate it. We haven't gotten to that
topic yet on the subregional councils. So that's coming up.

And just one other thing that I would highlight is an interesting thing, and again, maybe something we could
bring somebody in on in the future. The Regional Air Quality Control Council, Regional Air Quality Council- I got those confused. This morning, Erik and I, and I think several others were in the Commuting Solutions
meeting. And they are finalizing, in the next few months, near future, few months, an employee trip reduction
program, or traffic reduction program, that's going to be working with large employers, either over 250 over
100, requiring, as I understand it, plans for their employees to reduce trips, which I think seems like it offers
a lot of opportunity potentially for us. And I'm looking forward to hopefully finding out more about that. Maybe
we'll be able to bring someone in.
That's all I have. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I believe that Director Tisdale was next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Appreciate that. I just wanted to respond further to
Director Broom's comment regarding the $30.5 billion that is in the current legislation for transportation.
Understand, that is $30.5 billion that is to be spread out over three years. That was the request that we
made through APTA to Congress relative to that, with about $11.5 billion being targeted for 2021 and the
balance to be spread out over the next two years.
The intent, and the current language in that bill, is for a formulaic distribution as the CRRSA (Coronavirus
Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriation Act) funds were distributed. So the same formula that
applied there that the FTA is responsible for administering. We've been in Zoom conferences for the last
number of days with members of the Transit Board Member Legislative Committee, which I chair, and then
our lobbyists at APTA, to explain all this and to make sure that we're getting it out right.
But that's the current statement of where it stands, although I haven't seen whatever last minute
amendments might have been thrown into it. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. We appreciate your involvement in that effort.
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually just had a question to Director Guissinger about
the Accountability Committee, specifically regarding the input for some of the recommendations that might
come out of the Accountability Committee. And I think this is probably more of a process question, but I'm
curious as to how the input that you receive from other Directors, I guess you and Director Whitmore, is
used as you all go back and have conversations with the folks as representatives of the Board for the
Accountability Committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, thank you for the question, Director Lewis. And it really depends on the
issue. General Manager Johnson is attending all of these meetings and is doing a lot of the updates and
responses. And I think in particular on that issue that you gave us some feedback, which I appreciate, the
subregional forums, I know that-- and she can speak too, but she's got some thoughts-- I've got some
thoughts. I did have a conversation with Director Dishell, who sent some feedback. And I intend to follow
up with you and Director Cook, who both gave me comments. I was kind of waiting to see when it's going
to get scheduled, and we will follow up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Slightly. I guess I'm just curious of what the feedback loops are, like what is it, when
Directors give feedback or input, how is that taken to the Accountability Committee for consideration? And
also, how is that communicated to other Board members as well?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, there's been very little of that in terms of something written up. This is one of
the few times that we've gotten some feedback. And it's not, we're not giving them individual Directors'
feedback. I think it's been more of a conversation that we've been having.
And so I don't have a set approach, but it does go into our conversations. I've had several conversations
with Ms. Johnson about the local councils or the subregional forums. Why don't we-- I'm happy to talk to
you about the specific feedback, if you want. Like I say, there's just, it's sort of a process of getting good
ideas and seeing how they seem to fit with where we're going with the agency with Ms. Johnson.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I think that makes sense in terms of next steps. I guess I'm thinking about us
potentially taking a position as a Board collectively and just thinking, and wanting to know what the process
is for actually taking back feedback to the Accountability Committee to ensure that what is being presented
is indeed representative of the collection of the Board. So yeah. But we can chat offline. Thank you, Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I would encourage other Board members, if they have feedback as well, if they
participate or participated or listened in on those committee meetings and subcommittee meetings, if they
have comments to provide to Directors Guissinger and Whitmore, please do so.
I see Director Williams. Were you finished, Director Lewis? OK. Take your hand down.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to point out in terms of this discussion-- and I've pointed it out before-- that
when it comes to subregional councils, there are already seven local coordinating councils whose specific
purpose is to deal with transit. They have been around for years. And a lot of them have some great ground
rules.
There are also about the same number of transit management associations, TMAs. The TMAs are projects
of DRCOG and the LCCs, local coordinating councils, that are projects of CDOT. It seems to me that it
would be a shame to have a third set of local councils.
And the only other comment I would have on that is I wonder if there's been any discussion about having
those councils sorted the same way our districts are sorted. That's all. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Williams.
Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I noticed in today's Denver Gazette an article about
how RTD is going to be coordinating its FlexRide with Metro Taxi, and wondering what would that do
financially. Is this a net positive? Is this an expense for RTD? Is this a wash financially for RTD?
PEGGY CATLIN: General Manager CEO Johnson, do you have a response to that, or is that something
we should get back to the Board with?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, I think we could answer in a general sense. I think if anything, it optimizes our
service delivery options as it relates to capitalizing on efficiencies from a financial standpoint. But I will let
Michael Ford speak to that more specifically, as he and his team have been working on this endeavor to
bring it to fruition. It had been in play prior to me coming to the organization. So Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. Thank you. It's Michael Ford, COO. We're looking at opportunities where we can
deliver service more efficiently and at less cost. And these are one of the examples that we've rendered as
a pilot program to determine that. In terms of the total cost and everything else, I'll need to get back to you
on.
But again, we launched a couple of different pilot programs with the goal to make sure that the service is
efficient as possible, that we change the trajectory of how we deliver the service, and we also do it at a

lower cost, while continuing with the quality of service. To get back to you on your specific point, I can follow
up on the cost implications. I just don't have that in front of me right now.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Ford. And I happen to think this is a wonderful idea. And I look forward
to hopefully the program being a success and to expanding it, particularly, I believe, on some of our major
routes, major bus routes particularly. And so thank you very much and look forward to the information.
Good job to the team-MICHAEL FORD: No problem. Thanks
PAUL ROSENTHAL: --for putting this together.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Rosenthal.
Are there any other matters to come before the Board-- for this committee? I don't see any other hands
raised.
Our next meeting date is April 13, 2021. And this committee will be adjourned at 9:18 PM. Thank you all
and good evening.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you and good evening.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

