Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on August 7, 2007 at 5:32
p.m. Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

August 8, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, August 8,
2007 at 5:30 p.m. at UCDHSC on the Anschutz Medical Campus

Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Chair Martinez, Director Chacon, Director Brohl, Director
Busck, Director Daly, Director Kinton, Director Kemp, Director
McMullen, Director Pulliam, Director Quinlan, Director
Ruchman, Director Yamrick
Directors Christopher, Elfenbein, and Tayer
Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Dave
Genova, Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott
Reed, and Phil Washington.
Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Carol Duecker, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Krutsinger, Caitlin Magee, Daria Serna, John Shonsey,
Joe Smith, John Tarbert, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Zack
Van Gemert

Others Present:

Call to Order:

Marion Combs, Roger Sherman, Howard Alton, Jay Gershen,
Carolyn Goble, Dave Trunquist, George Peck, Kevin Hougene,
Dick Hinson, Kathryn Middleton, Jill Farnham, Judi Guy, Mac
Callison, Jeff Thompson, Chancellor M. Roy Wilson, Bart Neu,
Maren Stewart, Hollie Stevenson, Dwight Schock, Pete
Hankovszky, Brendon Harrington, Bill Obermann, L.W.
Morrow, Larry Warner
***
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

Chair Martinez thanked the Stakeholders Committee for the invitation to
have our Study Session at their facilities and to open up dialogue for
common grounds on how we can work together to enhance the
transportation experience for the Anchutz Medical Center campus
employees, patients and guests.
Chair Martinez then introduced M. Roy Wilson, the Chancellor for the

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on August 7, 2007 at 5:32
p.m. Page 2 of 3
UCDHSC.

Study Session
I. Welcome
Chancellor M. Roy Wilson, UCDHSC, provided the welcome and talked
briefly about the challenge of moving from a 200 employee to
23,000 expected employees and visitors daily on campus by next year.
Looking at the total Campus, he expects over 40,000 employees at complete
buildout. The thing that keeps him up at night is concern over how they will
efficiently and effectively transport employees, patients and guests throughout
this community. He then introduced Jay Gershen, Vice Chancellor for External
Affairs to provide an update on the Anzchutz campus plans.
II. Update on Plans for Anschutz Medical Campus and Fitzsimons Life Science
District
Jay Gershen, Vice Chancellor for External Affairs, indicated that he
represented the site wide stakeholders that consisted of Forest City,
Fitzsimons Redevelopment Authority, University of Colorado at Denver and
Health Sciences Center, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, City of Aurora,
University of Colorado Hospital, The Children’s Hospital, Aurora Economic
Development Council, Aurora Chamber of Commerce, Adams County
Economic development, Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce and Governor’s
Office of Economic Development and International Trade.
Jay shared a map of the campus and provided a handout of the traffic
congestion mitigation measures they are currently taking on the Anschutz
Medical Campus and Fitzsimons Life Science District. He shared that this
medical development project is one of the largest undertaken in the country.
The economic impact of this is $ 6B at full buildout that equates to jobs for
Colorado and growth. For example of $350M put into research grants, each
million dollar equals about 38 jobs created for Colorado.
For more information on this project and its impact, please refer to the map
that is included in the minutes of this meeting.
Jay thanked RTD for their involvement and sees this as a great PPP
opportunity between RTD and the stakeholders of this site. He also shared
the status of the I-225 exchange buildout and where they are on obtaining
funds. He shared another concern on public safety as a large number of
expected patients (over 800,000 outpatient for the University and Children
Hospitals alone will be using the facilities) and the concern over possible
congestion on the highways and streets leading into that facility.
III. RTD Bus Service Plans to Accommodate Anschutz Medical Campus and
Fitzsimons Growth Plans
Jessie Carter with the assistance of Zack Van Gemert, provided an update on
the current service that RTD provides to the Anchutz/Fitzsimons Medical
Campus including the recent service changes and projections for the future.
He shared information on the key facilities that serves this community today
and elaborated on some of the route changes that were made. This includes
changing the route 121 to provide connectivity with the shuttle that goes

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on August 7, 2007 at 5:32
p.m. Page 3 of 3
within the campus, creating a new DM route from Boulder to the Medical
Facility and increasing the service level on route 15/15L. Other future
proposals include:
 Increasing the service level when demand warrants it.
 Implement limited stop service on route 121
 Introduce route 89 (Stapleton to Fitzsimons)
 Extend route 20 to Aurora Centrepoint
 Joint TMA research customer and employee survey
 Create awareness on campus
 Continued information sharing between transportation and parking
management.
Various questions were asked from several directors that ranged from the
route from Southmoor to the campus, mobility issues, how long to
determine if the new service will meet ridership criteria, route 121L and 89
concept and definition of peak service for Anschutz Medical campus to
concerns over access and egress into the campus, the handling of parking
management and potential subscription to the EcoPass program.
Cal Marsella summarized by indicating we are looking at short term, mid
term and long term needs for the campus community and will continue to
work with the Stakeholders group and others to meet the needs of this
community.
Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting
The Board adjourned to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting at
6:35 p.m.

