Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 15, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Special Board Meeting
Chaired by Chair Tisdale
A.

Call to Order

Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Bob Broom
Director, District F

B.

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM
5:26 PM
5:15 PM

Peggy Catlin
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

4:56 PM
5:20 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Ken Mihalik

Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

4:47 PM
5:26 PM
5:33 PM
5:31 PM
5:00 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:30 PM
4:59 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:20 PM
5:15 PM

Roll Call

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 15 members present at roll call.
Staff Present:

Will Adams, Rolf Asphaug, Martha Bembry, Shirley Bennett, Steven
Butcher, Nicole Carey, Jessie Carter, Joe Christie, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Dawn DiLeo, Kevin Diviness, Stephen

Dory, Steve Eubanks, Kimberly Ford, Michael Ford, Kyle French,
Amerie Gagliardi, David Genova, Greg Goldman, Bob Grado, Chris
Harmon, Laurie Huff, Dave Jensen, Virginia Johnson, Doug MacLeod,
Armando Martinez, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara
McManus, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Beverly Riley, Ruth Seleske,
Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk
Strand, Mark Tieman, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van
Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Michael Washington, Luke Westlund
Others Present:

Joshua Acosta, Carl Atencio, Chris Blake, Doug Brockwell, Eva
Butcher, Shelly Cook, Jackie Crea, Jenee Donelson, William Gross,
Anne Herzenberg, Paul Kenny, Wendy Londa, Jonathan Lovato,
Cyntha Menge, Tom Peterson, Joe Phillips, William Richardson,
Shawn Sink, Susan Spry, Zara Stephenson, Don Stitt, Jeremy Story,
John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

Chair Tisdale noted RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency occurred. He added
that the proceedings were being both audio and video recorded as part of RTD’s
continuing pilot testing of the new Board recording system, which was set to go live and
official on June 1st.
Chair Tisdale also noted the passing of Aurora Mayor Steve Hogan, who gave himself
tirelessly and who was an effective advocate on behalf of the City of Aurora and a partner
of RTD. He added that there would be a memorial on Saturday morning and encouraged
anyone that was interested to attend.
C.

Action Item
1.

Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue

It is recommended that the Board of Directors adopt the attached resolution stating
that additional voter authorization is not required for RTD to resume collection of
marijuana sales tax revenue pursuant to SB18-088.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals as follows:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management (pursuit of financing leading to
additional funding).
Task Goal #1: Fiscal Sustainability (identify opportunities to enhance revenue;
revenues exceeding forecast).
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve
Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue.

Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that the Colorado
General Assembly had passed a law in February that fixed a
mistake which had inadvertently halted the collection of
marijuana tax revenues by RTD the Scientific and Cultural
Facilities District (SCFD) and a number of other entities. The
new law, passed in February, allowed for marijuana tax
revenues to again flow to RTD provided that the Board
certified to the Colorado Department of Revenue that no
further vote of the electorate was required by the Colorado
constitution and under applicable case law by the Colorado
Supreme Court and Colorado Court of Appeals to do so. He
indicated that the certification requirement came about as a
result of a pending Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR) case
which involved RTD and SCFD being undecided at the
Supreme Court at the time that the general assembly passed
the new bill in February. That case involved a statute which
was passed in 2013 and RTD and SCFD won that case, and
relevant statements were made in the case opinion which
were helpful in deciding this issue. He noted that staff had
recently provided the Board with copies of the legal opinion
analyzing whether the legal authorities required a vote and,
now that the Supreme Court case had been decided in RTD’s
favor, his opinion was that no further vote was required to
resume collection of the marijuana tax under TABOR, other
provisions under the Colorado constitution, or other case law.
He stated that he had drafted a recommended resolution
containing the necessary certifications so that RTD could again
collect marijuana tax revenue. He noted that the SCFD had
already undergone the same exercise as the Board and had
already issued their certification to the Colorado Department of
Revenue. He added that there was some urgency, and if
RTD’s certification was not submitted by May 17th, both RTD
and the SCFD would not be able to collect marijuana tax
revenue until the following January. He commented that, if the
certification were submitted before May 17th, RTD could begin
to collect marijuana tax revenue beginning July 1st. He further
added that the new Supreme Court opinion had language
supporting the concept of being able to resume collection of a
previously voter authorized tax in a situation like this, when

the legislature made a mistake which caused the collection of
an existing voter-approved tax to be inadvertently interrupted.
He reiterated that this was not a new tax, or a tax policy
change under TABOR, but an effort to fix a mistake so that an
existing voter-approved tax could be properly collected.
Director Menten said that she provided each Director with an
original promotional flyer produced by RTD in an effort to sell
the FasTracks program to the voters. She noted that she had
highlighted one portion of the flyer, which indicated that sales
tax would not apply to groceries. She said that with the sales
tax parity, otherwise referred to as the dirty dozen bills, there
was a sales tax on certain groceries and asked if RTD was
collecting sales tax on groceries.
Mr. Asphaug stated that, if Director Menten was referring to
the bill from 2013, it was sustained as constitutional by the
Colorado Supreme Court.
Director Folska, Ph.D., commented that Director Menten’s
remarks were off topic and asked to either call the question or
get back on topic.
Chair Tisdale asked Director Menten to be more concise with
her question.
Director Menten remarked that RTD staff waited to bring
forward the marijuana reinstatement of a retired tax because
of the Supreme Court ruling for the tax of some grocery
products and added that she would like to continue with this
discussion as she thought it was appropriate.
Chair Tisdale said that the Supreme Court needed to rule their
decision before RTD could move forward because RTD needed
to know if the action that needed to be taken was in
compliance with the Supreme Court decision.
Director Menten commented that the Board owed it to the tax
payers to have the discussion. She noted that one bill was
referred to as the pop and candy act. She said that if a food
product was qualified as junk food it would be taxed, and to

her, it was immoral to tax food. She added that the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force was created to increase sales tax
and the numbers mentioned in their documents indicated that
it would raise sales tax revenue by $3 to $12 million. She
added that TABOR was very clear that tax policy changes are
supposed to go to the taxpayers. She further added that she
strongly disagreed with the policy actions and, that if the
marijuana tax resolution passed, she could not trust
government.
Director Mihalik noted that he too took issue with the opinion
and how it diluted the meaning and intent of TABOR and
added that this would set a dangerous precedent for future
TABOR opinions.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that it was clear to her that this
was something that the voters approved, and, only because of
an error by the Colorado legislature was the reason for RTD’s
discussion. She added that RTD was not issuing the tax, the
state was.
Chair Tisdale remarked that the legislature did admit it was a
mistake on their part and it needed to be remedied.
Director Lubow said that she would be voting in favor of this
item. She added that, while she appreciated the opinions of
those opposed, the standard of reasonableness was something
that the courts had the right to consider.
Director Catlin noted that she shared some of the same
concerns with the ruling as Director Mihalik. However, she
noted that she would rather RTD have the ability to control
that tax than to have it put into the black hole of government
spending.
Director Hoy said that there should be a distinction between
groceries and marijuana. He noted that the Supreme Court
dealt with the grocery issue, and they may have watered
down TABOR, but the issue this evening was whether RTD
should collect marijuana taxes as it did in the past. He added

that the tax went away by mistake and the Board should
acknowledge that and move forward.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Catlin, Deadwyler, Folska,
Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, and
Williams) and 2 opposed (Menten, Mihalik).
Director Menten asked if she could submit a minority report. She wanted to make it
clear that she was not a unanimous vote.
Chair Tisdale stated that the official record would show that she was a no vote.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [13 TO 2]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Catlin, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten, Ken Mihalik

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.
D.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E.

Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 5:55 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

