Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 15, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Special Board Meeting
Chaired by Chair Tisdale
A.

Call to Order

B.

Roll Call

C.

Action Item
1.

Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue

It is recommended that the Board of Directors adopt the attached resolution stating
that additional voter authorization is not required for RTD to resume collection of
marijuana sales tax revenue pursuant to SB18-088.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals as follows:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management (pursuit of financing leading to
additional funding).
Task Goal #1: Fiscal Sustainability (identify opportunities to enhance revenue;
revenues exceeding forecast).
D.

Other Matters

E.

Adjourn
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 4, 2018

From:

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel

GM

Date:

May 4, 2018

Board Meeting Date: May 15, 2018

Subject:

Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended that the Board of Directors adopt the attached resolution stating that additional voter
authorization is not required for RTD to resume collection of marijuana sales tax revenue pursuant to
SB18-088.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals as follows:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management (pursuit of financing leading to additional funding).
Task Goal #1: Fiscal Sustainability (identify opportunities to enhance revenue; revenues exceeding
forecast).
BACKGROUND AND DISCUSSION
Before the enactment of Senate Bill 17-267, the state levied two sales taxes on retail marijuana sales:
(1) The 2.9% general state sales tax levied pursuant to article 26 of title 39 of the Colorado Revised
Statutes. (2) The retail marijuana sales tax: a 10% special sales tax levied on retail marijuana sales only,
pursuant to article 28.8 of title 39. Senate Bill 17-267 increased the total rate of state sales tax levied
on retail marijuana sales, as authorized by prior voter approval, by exempting retail marijuana sales from
the article 26 2.9% general state sales tax and increasing the rate of the article 28.8 retail marijuana
sales tax so that, without reducing total state sales tax revenue attributable to retail marijuana sales,
only one state sales tax would be levied on such sales. The bill was introduced and passed in the last
days of the 2017 legislative session, and no special districts like RTD and SCFD were asked for fiscal
notes – as they would have been, had anyone anticipated that the bill would affect them.
Because their enabling statutes specify that RTD, the Scientific and Cultural Facilities District (SCFD),
and health services districts (HSDs) may levy sales tax only on transactions upon which the state levies
sales tax “pursuant to the provisions of article 26 of title 29, C.R.S.,” the exemption of retail marijuana
sales from the article 26 general state sales tax inadvertently exempted such sales from RTD, SCFD, and
HSD sales taxes, even though the state continued throughout to levy sales tax on marijuana sales. In
addition, because some other special districts and authorities had laws allowing them to collect sales
taxes only upon transactions upon which the state levies sales tax, without specifically referencing
article 26, Senate Bill 17-267 made it unclear whether such entities could continue to levy sales taxes
on retail marijuana sales.
To correct these unintended consequences and allow RTD, SCFD and HSDs to resume collection of
marijuana tax revenues, a bipartisan coalition of 23 Senators and 35 Representatives (Senators Gardner,
Aguilar, Coram, Court, Crowder, Donovan, Fenberg, Fields, Garcia, Grantham, Guzman, Jahn, Jones,
Kagan, Kefalas, Kerr, Martinez Humenik, Merrifield, Priola, Todd, Williams A., Zenzinger, and Moreno;
and Representatives Becker K., Arndt, Bridges, Buckner, Coleman, Duran, Esgar, Exum, Foote, Garnett,
Gray, Hamner, Hansen, Herod, Hooton, Kennedy, Lawrence, Lee, Lontine, Melton, Michaelson Jenet,
Pabon, Pettersen, Rankin, Roberts, Rosenthal, Salazar, Singer, Thurlow, Weissman, Young, Benavidez,
Ginal, Kraft-Tharp, and McLachlan) approved Senate Bill 18-088, which was signed into law on February
22, 2018.

Packet Pg. 2

1.C.1

Senate Bill 18-088 acknowledged the 2017 bill’s “inadvertent and unintended” exemption of marijuana
sales tax revenue from RTD, SCFD, and the HSDs, noting that the exemption was “inconsistent with
prior voter approval to levy broad general sales taxes obtained by” RTD, SCFD, and other entities that
had formerly been collecting marijuana tax revenues. The 2018 bill stated that it was “curative and
remedial legislation to correct an oversight in Senate Bill 17-267 and ensure that the original intent of
the general assembly in enacting Senate Bill 17-267” was honored, and that RTD, SCFD and the other
entities “be able to continue to levy sales taxes on retail marijuana sales on and after July 1, 2017, is
realized …”
The General Assembly further found, as stated in the text of the bill, that the 2018 corrective bill was
“consistent with existing state tax policy and prior voter approval to levy broad general sales taxes
obtained by” RTD, SCFD, and the other affected districts, and “to clarify that retail marijuana sales
remain subject to sales taxes levied by the affected special districts … so long as the continued levying
and collection of [such] taxes … complies with the requirements of the Colorado constitution and
applicable decisions of the Colorado supreme court and Colorado court of appeals.”
The bill therefore amended article 26 to clarify that RTD, SCFD and any other entity that had previously
been collecting marijuana sales tax under article 26 “retains its authority to continue levying sales tax
upon retail sales of marijuana under this article 26.”
Finally, the bill stated that “the governing body” of RTD, SCFD, and each other district for which the bill
was correcting this inadvertent and unintended exemption “shall determine whether the levying of such
sales tax complies with the Colorado constitution and applicable decisions of the Colorado supreme
court and Colorado court of appeals and, if the governing body of any such [district] determines that
additional voter approval is required to levy sales tax upon retail sales of marijuana, the [district] shall
not resume levying sales tax upon such sales until voter approval is obtained.”
The 2018 curative bill was enacted with this unusual provision because, at the time the General
Assembly was considering Senate Bill 18-088, the Colorado Supreme Court had before it a lawsuit
against RTD and SCFD challenging the ability of the General Assembly to make changes to the tax laws
without voter approval if such changes caused even incidental and minor increases in tax revenues. The
undersigned advised the Board that it would be prudent for the Board to await the outcome of that
lawsuit before making the above-required determination as to the need for additional voter approval.
The Colorado Supreme Court has now spoken, in its unanimous April 23, 2018 decision in TABOR
Foundation v. RTD, et al., 2018 CO 29. In that opinion, the Supreme Court for the first time considered
what the Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR) means when it requires a “new tax” or a “tax policy change
directly causing a net tax revenue gain” to go to the voters for approval. While the facts before the
Supreme Court were different, the Supreme Court supported the conclusion that where voter approval
had previously been obtained to collect sales tax, a bill like SB18-088 – which states that a district
“retains the authority” to “continue” levying a sales tax and that sales “remain subject to” such taxes,
and which corrects an indisputably inadvertent and unintended exemption from such taxes – does not
create a “new tax” or a “tax policy change” so as to force the entities to return to the voters to once
again get approval that the voters had already granted.
Simply put, the Supreme Court stated that the word “new” in “new tax” suggests “creation, not
alteration,” and cited the dictionary definition of “new” as “never existing before” and “appeis aring …
for the first time.” Thus, a bill that fixes a mistake to allow resumed collection of a tax for which prior
voter approval had been obtained is not a “new” tax: the tax existed before.

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

Likewise, the Supreme Court noted that “tax policy change” “contains ‘policy,’ which, in this context,
suggests a significant change: It means ‘a principle, plan, or course of action.’ … [C]onstruing ‘tax policy
change’ to encompass any tax change would render the word ‘policy’ superfluous.”
The Supreme Court also noted TABOR’s “central concern: constraining tax hikes.” Finally, the Supreme
Court noted that RTD’s voters had already approved “a broadly worded and unqualified sales tax” for
RTD.
Considering all of the above factors, plus the fact that the voters had approved the marijuana taxes at
issue, voter approval is not required to correct the inadvertent mistake and resume direction of marijuana
sales tax revenue to RTD. Where the voters had previously stated that an authority like RTD should
receive tax revenue, an inadvertent suspension of such existing – not “new” – taxes due to a legislative
mistake – not a conscious principle – shouldn’t thwart that prior voter decision and require the voters to
go back and re-state what they had already decided was right.
If there is any doubt in this matter, the Supreme Court also noted that TABOR is to be viewed through a
“lens of reasonableness,” and that “We have consistently declined to adopt interpretations of [TABOR]
that would unreasonably curtail the everyday functions of government.” There is additional appellate
case law supporting the ability of the legislature to correct a mistake without such correction creating a
“new tax” or constituting a “tax policy change.” Under these circumstances it would be unreasonable
and expensive to require RTD to have to hold a new election to resume receiving marijuana tax revenue.
Everything in the TABOR Foundation decision supports the conclusion that additional voter approval is
not required for RTD to resume receiving sales tax revenue from retail marijuana sales.
SCFD’s governing body has already unanimously determined that additional voter approval is not
required for SCFD to resume levying the tax.
The Colorado Department of Revenue has advised RTD and SCFD that because SCFD’s and RTD’s
boundaries are contiguous, it will not resume collection of marijuana tax revenues for either district until
both of them determine that no additional voter approval is required (or, if one or both determine
additional voter approval is needed, such approval is obtained). DOR only makes changes to its tax
collection twice a year, on July 1 and January 1, and requires 45 days’ advance approval by a district
for such changes. Thus, if RTD wants marijuana tax revenues to resume effective July 1, RTD has only
until May 17 to notify DOR.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Approval of the attached resolution on or before May 17, 2018, will allow RTD to timely notify the
Department of Revenue of the determination by RTD’s governing body, which will in turn allow DOR to
resume collection of the tax effective July 1. It is estimated that this tax contributes approximately
$600,000 per month, or over $7 million per year, to RTD’s revenues. If approval is delayed beyond May
17, RTD will lose approximately $3.5 million more, on top of the $7 million or so in revenue that RTD
has lost since SB17-267 was enacted.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action and adopt the attached resolution. This will allow RTD to
resume receiving marijuana sales tax revenues after July 1.
2. Postpone consideration of the Recommended Action. This is not recommended due to the May
17, 2018 deadline to notify DOR. Any postponement will result in loss of at least $3.5 million in
tax revenues.

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

3. Reject the Recommended Action and determine that resumption of tax collection without
additional voter approval does not comply with the Colorado Constitution and applicable decisions
of the Colorado Supreme Court and Colorado Court of Appeals. This is not recommended,
because the Colorado Constitution and applicable decisions of the Colorado Supreme Court and
Colorado Court of Appeals indicate that additional voter approval is not required to comply with
the Colorado Constitution and applicable decisions of the Colorado Supreme Court and Colorado
Court of Appeals.
(Note: The above Recommended Action and accompanying Resolution does not contain an exhaustive listing or analysis of all of
the reasons that voter approval is not required of RTD. The above also: (1) is not intended to convey or constitute legal advice
to any person or entity other than RTD through its collective Board of Directors; (2) does not create an attorney-client
relationship with any other person or entity; and (3) does not waive the attorney-client privilege.)

ATTACHMENTS:


2018 Resolution - 005 Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue (PDF)

Prepared by:
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: 2018 Resolution - 005 Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue (3469 : Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue)

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: 2018 Resolution - 005 Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue (3469 : Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue)

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 2018 Resolution - 005 Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue (3469 : Resuming Collection of Marijuana Tax Revenue)

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 8

