FINANCE & PLANNING
2202-07-12

ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening, everybody.
The Finance and Planning Committee
will now come to order.
We are convened as of 5:31 PM.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting
to please unmute yourself unless you're recognized to speak.
Thank you for joining us, and please note
that as always here, as been the recent case,
we are holding our official meetings
for the RTD Board of Directors remotely
in the interest of health, public safety, and welfare.
For the immediate future, these official meetings
of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded.
Please visit RTD-Denver.com to access meeting recordings

and unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record,
if you would like to be acknowledged
for tonight's proceedings, I would
ask that you please raise your virtual hand
and wait for me to call on you before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone
can also raise their virtual hands
to indicate that they would like to speak
by pressing star nine to toggle your mute settings
on the phone.
Please press star six.
I will now call for the role of the directors
committee members present.
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mini-Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Board first Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am here.
That is all seven committee members present, zero absent.
For the sake of the record, I also
see that we are joined this evening by Board Chair
Buzek, Director Williams, Director Tisdale, Director
Bouquet, and Director Rivera-Malpiede.
Thank you for joining us at the committee meeting.
We're going to now move into the public comments period.
I will open public comment to anyone
who would like to address this committee specifically

regarding any topic in the published meeting
agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not done so,
please either raise your virtual hand or press star
nine on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak.
If you're dialed in, please press star six
to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process,
you're being recorded, and if you do not wish to be recorded,
your comments will need to be submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference material
for the committee, or if any member of the public would like
to submit written comments, please email those materials
to our Board Office at RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During public comments, the committee
will not offer any comments or responses.
Directors or staff may contact speakers following

their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves
to follow-up.
Speakers should please begin their remarks
by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes
to speak.
I am not seeing anybody in the queue, but Barbara,
would you mind confirming whether anybody has raised
their hand to speak tonight?
I'm hearing down from our Board Office,
and we're not seeing any raised hands.
We're going to go ahead and move on.
We also did not receive any email comments
for tonight's meeting.
So with no other participation and
with no other email comments, we'll
go ahead and close out the public comment period.
There's no information from external entities this evening,
so we will go ahead and move into our recommended actions.

We have three recommended actions tonight.
The first one is for the Series 2014
A certificates of participation refinancing.
This is for the RTD Board of Directors
to adopt the attached resolution number of the 2022
authorizing the issuance of bonds
for the FasTracks project series 2022 A and 2022
B. Do I hear a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So move, Dishell.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Catlin.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mover, Dishell.
Second, Catlin.
We will go ahead and have a discussion period.
We'll kick this off.
I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Doug MacLeod, our Chief
Financial Officer, and to Brenden Morgan,
our Senior Manager of Debt and Investments,
to present the item to the committee.

DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening, and thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I'd also like to introduce Mike Newman, who
is our Senior Managing Director from Hilltop Securities.
He will also assist in the presentation.
We do have a short presentation to go through, but first
of all, I'd like to do a quick recap.
This isn't the first time that you've
heard about this refinancing opportunity.
At the Finance and Planning Committee meeting in March,
staff presented a discussion item
regarding the potential refinancing of the 2013
and 2014 certificates of participation,
also known as COPS.
Those were issued to fund the N Line buildout.
At that time in March, the projected interest savings
from the refinancing indicated total savings
of between $103 million and $120 million.
The higher savings of $120 million

required the use of the remaining FasTracks
voter-authorized bond capacity, meaning
that additional interest savings could be generated
by refinancing the COPS with bonds as opposed
to refinancing with COPS.
During that March meeting, this committee
requested additional information regarding bond counsel's
opinion that the FasTracks voter authorization to issue bonds
could no longer be used after 20 years, which would
occur in November of 2024.
Since that time, bond counsel and staff
have provided additional information
to the full board supporting that position regarding
Tabor case law and the RTD Board's
fiduciary responsibility to pursue the most efficient use
of taxpayer funding.
Staff agreed to return to this committee in July
tonight to request approval to move forward with a refinancing

to generate interest savings.
Staff, along with Hilltop Securities,
has revised some of the terms of this refinancing
to generate those savings, which we
believe will be a very positive financial action for RTD.
So Brenden is going to walk us through a few slides
to discuss what that financing mechanism looks like,
and I will share my screen with that presentation.
Brenden please go ahead when you're ready.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you, Doug.
Good evening.
I'm Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments
here at RTD, and as Doug mentioned,
I'm going to walk us through a few slides that
are in the pack-- starting on page 19 of the agenda packet.
Doug, are pulling that up?
I can't see the slides myself at this point.
But I can walk through it without them

if you're having any technical difficulties.
DOUG MACLEOD: I apologize.
Let me try again.
Sorry.
BRENDEN MORGAN: There we go.
DOUG MACLEOD: Now can you see it?
Thank you.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Perfect.
So as Doug mentioned, this refinancing deals
with our RTD's series 2014 A certificates of participation.
These COPS were issued back in 2014
to fund a major portion of the In-line project at that time.
The refinancing that we're proposing here
involves the use of fast-track bonds for interest
expense savings.
After we spoke with the Board back in March,
we issued a request for information
to RTD's investment bank pool.

RTD maintains this pool of investment banks
who help us with finding major financing projects anytime
we have to issue bonds, or COPS, or other financings.
We go to this pool of banks.
There's nine banks in the pool currently,
and they're available as a resource for RTD.
Every five years, that pool gets refreshed
through a competitive solicitation.
So we sent this request for information out to our pool,
and we received nine proposals, one
from each bank that's in the pool, with various responses.
And the question that we asked was simply,
how could RTD refinance these 2014
certificates of participation and maximize the savings?
So of all nine responses that we received back, four of them
were very similar, and they all four proposed
the use of what we're calling here Cinderella bonds.
Cinderella bonds are called such because they transform

from taxable to tax-exempt after the old bonds are called,
or in this case, certificates of participation are called.
And the benefit to that is simply
that tax-exempt bonds pay a lower interest expense,
so it's cheaper for RTD if we can do it as a tax-exempt bond.
So we would only be paying taxable rates, essentially,
for the first few months, and then it
would transform to a tax-exempt bond.
The proposed transaction for this resolution
proposes the use of unrestricted funds
of approximately $95 million.
It also proposes the use of the 2014 COPS debt service
reserves, which are currently approximately $35 million,
and it contemplates using the remaining project funds, which
are approximately $4 million.
Transaction costs for this transaction
are estimated to be slightly less than half of $1 million.
If you'll recall back in March, the transaction

we were looking at would have considered
using the capital markets.
We would have sold these bonds through a traditional
negotiated sale, and the cost of issuance at that point
was estimated to be approximately $3 million.
The efficiency gained here is simply
that we would not be selling these bonds
through an underwriter, but rather, we
would be placing these bonds directly
with the two best banks that provided proposals
to RTD through this request for information.
So a nice pickup in savings there on the costs
of the transaction.
As we go to the next slide, we'll
look at the refinancing benefits.
We'll start with looking at gross savings
for this transaction.
Over the remaining 22 years of the 2014 certificates

of participation, gross savings would
be approximately $294 million.
If we look at this through a net present value perspective,
the savings is approximately $152 million
or 34.5% net present value.
This transaction reduces FasTrack's outstanding debt
because, again, we're using that $90 million of cash
as well as the debt service reserve funds to prepay or pay
down the outstanding debt.
So not only is our outstanding debt decline,
but our debt service that we would pay in the future
would also decline.
The annual debt service would decline for the first 16
years of this transaction.
So in other words, 2022 through 2037,
the savings on an annual basis would
be approximately $9 million per year.
And after that, for the last seven years

from 2038 through 2044, the savings
is expected to be in excess of $20 million per year
every year.
So it's a fantastic amount of savings each year.
This is what we believe to be the lowest cost of capital
currently available to RTD, and this transaction
would also improve our ability to issue COPS
in the future for two particular reasons.
One is, as we mentioned, the North Metro Rail
assets as an asset becomes wholly owned
and unencumbered by RTD.
So we would have complete control of that asset,
and we could choose, if the Board so chose in the future,
to use it as collateral for some certificate of
participation financing.
Also, just the decline in debt service payments
out through the future of that $9 million per year
and the $20 million per year.

That increases our ability to repay debt in the future
as well.
So there are quite a few benefits to this transaction.
If we go to the next slide, we'll look at the things
to consider here.
There are a few things worth considering,
and, obviously, we came to you back in March
to discuss this particular one.
The first one is that we would exhaust all of the remaining
FasTracks bond authorization.
Bond Counsel has cautioned that the authorization will expire
in 2024, so we have a limited amount of time
to use this voter-authorized debt capacity.
And RTD currently has no plans to use this authorization
for any of the remaining FasTracks projects,
and it's certainly not enough to complete
any of the remaining FasTracks projects at this point in time.
The other thing, major thing, to consider here

is the use of approximately $95 million
of unrestricted reserves.
These reserves are currently available due
to underspending in 2021.
RTD had some underspending as far as budget
to actuals in 2021.
So those funds are available for RTD
to use if the Board so chooses, and it's really
just an upfront payment of debt service.
We'd be paying this debt service upfront rather
than paying it later in time.
So that $95 million will be paid either way.
However, if we prepay it now, we won't be paying interest
on the $95 million.
So there's a trade-off there.
So I think those are all the slides that we really wanted
to walk through with the Board.
Mike Newman is with us.

As Doug mentioned, Mr. Mike Newman
is our financial advisor, or as the Securities and Exchange
Commission refers to them as our municipal advisor.
They already have a fiduciary responsibility to RTD,
simply meaning that they need to give guidance and advice that's
in RTD's best interest.
They sit on our side of the negotiating table
when we deal with investment banks and the like.
So, Mike, if you don't mind here,
I'd like to ask you to put on a hat
as if you were pretending to be a Board member of a Board
who is considering this transaction.
And maybe let us know what you think about what would you
want to know?
Maybe what questions would you want to ask?
And just give us your perspective
on what you think are some important points
of this transaction?

MICHAEL NEWMAN: Thank you, Brenden.
I'd like to thank everybody for the opportunity
to join you this evening.
I guess the first question I would ask
is, if I was a Board member, why this structure?
Why not just sell bonds like always?
Or sell certificates of participation
to the public markets?
And really, Brenden, in his remarks answered that question.
In 2017 in connection with the Tax Reform Act,
municipal bond law was changed to prohibit advance refunding
on a tax-exempt basis.
Meaning you could no longer sell tax-exempt bonds in advance-more than 90 days in advance of paying off the old debt.
That's why Brenden referenced the need
to sell taxable bonds at this point
to refinance those outstanding certificates of participation.
RTD could wait until 90 days prior to the call date

and take interest rate risk, but the other option
would be to sell tax-exempt bonds today
or to price them but not deliver them
for approximately eight months.
But there's a premium associated with that delay and delivery
of about five basis points a month.
That you effectively add 40 basis points onto your interest
rate for the life of the financing.
So as Brenden said, this truly is a Cinderella
in that you only use the higher cost taxable debt
for as long as necessary.
And then, it converts like Cinderella
to the beautiful lower tax-exempt rate.
But those interest rates are locked in today.
You will know what your costs are upon execution,
assuming conversion from the taxable interest
rate to the tax-exempt.
There is no risk there.

The risk of conversion is simply the ability of bond Counsel
to render a tax-exempt opinion on the conversion date
since the use of the assets will have already been evaluated
and has been evaluated and found eligible
for the use of tax-exempt funding.
The outstanding certificates of protection are tax-exempt.
No use is changing.
This is considered a very low risk of an issue.
So the expectation is they will convert from a taxable interest
rate to a tax-exempt rate without any issue.
I would probably ask, if I was sitting
on the Board, that makes sense, but why not
do that in the bond markets?
Then we know we got the right price.
If we just give it to banks, how did we pick these banks?
How do we know the price is fair?
Because these bonds would be very taxable
and tax-exempt rate, there's no natural buyer

in the public markets.
Buyers typically prefer taxable interest rates or tax-exempt.
This structure or Cinderella bond
has been used by a number of entities, not only nationwide,
but in Colorado.
But there's no public buyer of the security that's
both taxable and tax-exempt.
So these transactions have occurred in the bank market.
So that's why the bank markets, and RTD, under Brenden
and Doug's guidance, issued-got proposals.
As Brenden mentioned, went out to the underwriter pool,
and we got indicative quotes from a number of banks.
So there was a competitive process.
But before we did that to assess the potential savings
from a structure, we modeled a tax-exempt financing
by RTD as well as a taxable financing.
And we looked effectively at the weighted average interest

rates of that taxable financing equal to that period
of the taxable period for the Cinderella
as well as the tax-exempt.
The numbers we ran from our desk were within two or three basis
points of that indicative quote we got from the banks.
So we know we can check the reasonableness
of any quotes from the banks by looking at what RTD
can do in the public markets.
Can we be exact?
No, but we can tell pretty closely if it's reasonable.
We can tell if it's reasonable or not, and if it's
fair and appropriate.
Let me touch on we keep referring to a refunding,
and in substance and from an economic perspective,
this is a refunding.
But the other question I would ask related to this
is, why is RTD being asked to put in all this cash?
Doug's exactly right, and Brenden,

that cash would be paid by RTD regardless
of whether this is done or not.
It's just a question of when.
If that cash is used today, it eliminates any future interest
expense, but why is RTD being asked and putting
in that cash in a refunding when it hasn't done so previously?
And the answer to that is the outstanding certificates
of participation can be refunded in part,
but what we're really doing here is
RTD is issuing FasTracks bonds to buy the leased
assets and asset acquisition.
And it can only buy the line in full.
It cannot buy it in part.
And banks typically do not go as far out
as we would like these FasTracks bonds to do-- to go.
So we couldn't get enough bank capacity
to refinance all the long bonds.
That difference between the bank capacity

that we could get at attractive rates and the cost
to acquire the project in full is
what required the question to the Board
and to staff about the interest ability and willingness of RTD
to invest that cash to retire that debt early.
And arguably, by doing so, RTD earns a return
on that investment equal to the interest expense
it would have paid on those bonds.
And I would argue it's a risk-free rate of return
because RTD is accepting its own risk.
It's paying that off.
As one of the reasons when going back to why this structure,
and what are the savings?
The FasTracks bonds of RTD are higher
rated than the certificates of participation,
so that immediately creates incremental savings
versus a certificate of participation.
The other source that improves the savings to RTD

is certificates of participation typically
have a debt service reserve fund as the outstanding COPS do.
RTD's FasTracks do not need a reserve fund.
So when Brenden in his presentation
cited the contribution of the reserve fund
to this effect of refunding, that reserve bond was bond-or was funded from proceeds of certificate of participation.
And RTD was paying interest on those COPs
while that reserve's outstanding.
Well, now that we're using FasTracks,
we don't need a reserve, and since we're retiring the COPS,
we can take those reserve fund monies
and eliminate that outstanding, which helps generate
additional gross savings.
A question I would ask if I was sitting on the Board
is, I understand completely if I use cash to pay off debt early.
I'm going to save a lot of money,
but are we recovering-- are the savings from the refinancing

itself worthwhile?
So while Brenden talked about the savings in totality,
the certificates of participation
being refinanced through City National Bank.
We're looking at approximately just over 10% savings
as a percent of refunded principal
clearly standing on its own merit.
And since we ran these numbers last week,
City National actually indicated today
their interest rate would be about eight basis points lower.
So if it holds, the savings would just
be better than we're looking at today.
But even today, they were over 10%.
Bank of America on the debt it would refinance,
we're looking at savings as a percent of refunded principal
just over 11%.
So while the use of cash saves a great deal of money,
the refinancing stand on their own merit as well.

If I was a Board member from the northern area,
I would be very focused on whether or not
this financing precludes construction of another rail
line, and I would ask very much about that.
And as Brenden said, what was instrumental about the 2014
certificates of participation, and I
think it's worth noting that issuance by RTD
won national recognition.
It was the first time lease revenue bonds or certificates
of participation were used to build the rail line.
RTD has proven it can access the markets without TABOR capacity
to borrow money at attractive rates
to build the rail line if that is the objective of RTD.
Paper capacity is not required.
We've proven that.
As Brenden mentioned, because this is actually
an acquisition of an asset, we will
add to the unencumbered assets of RTD, enhancing

its future flexibility, whether it's for a new line or anything
else the Board wishes to do.
And I can't emphasize enough it was a point Brenden made.
But I think it's really important
to talk about a little bit more is through this transaction,
you're reducing debt outstanding,
and you are saving interest expense, about $290 million.
That $290 million would be available to pay debt service
on a future financing for a rail line
if that's something RTD would want to do
or any other capital projects of RTD.
So that's a big help to afford that North rail line.
The TABOR that is being used was-not only was it insufficient to build a rail line,
it's actually insufficient to refinance
all of these certificates of participation.
There is not enough TABOR capacity even to do that.
And then, as bond Counsel stated, it will expire.

But I think what's most important to say, well, use
it or lose it.
I agree with that.
But from an analytical standpoint, whether you-If you use the TABOR capacity, you
will improve your savings and your debt capacity,
making it easier to afford the financing of an additional
rail line.
And we have proven at RTD that TABOR capacity is not
necessary to finance construction of a new
rail line.
I guess the one other question I would
ask myself-- and I apologize.
Well, I guess the two other questions I would ask,
can we really do this?
It's a pretty fair question.
For since it is actually an acquisition of assets,
the FasTracks bonds we're discussing

are considered new money from a creditors' perspective.
To issue new money debt, RTD has to pass
what's referred to as additional bonds test.
When RTD sells FasTracks bonds or COPs, for that matter,
it enters into contracts with its investors.
And under those contracts, RTD has reserved the right
to issue additional FasTracks debt if it
meets certain financial tests.
We have run those tests.
RTD can issue the proposed FasTracks
bonds in this structure and satisfy the additional bonds
test for FasTracks.
RTD is also subject to a series of financial tests
to issue FasTracks bonds under the Concession Agreement.
We have run all of those tests.
They have been reviewed by bond Counsel,
and they all can be satisfied.
So we know from a legal perspective

RTD can pursue this financing if it chooses to.
The one thing we don't know, and we won't know until the time,
is, will it make sense?
Will RTD save sufficient money through this financing
that it makes sense to go forward?
I don't know.
I do not know what interest rates will do.
It is well-vetted in the press of concerns of inflation,
and now, you hear talk of recession
because the Fed's going to overtight.
I don't know where interest rates will go.
What I do know is, if you are not
ready to take advantage of an opportunity,
it doesn't matter whether the opportunity presents itself
or not.
And we know as of today that opportunity
exists and is actually getting a little more attractive.
The City National saying, they're going to lower--

they would lower their rates about eight basis points
if it was done today.
And the work that is done stays good.
It does not expire, and no professionals
are paid unless a transaction is completed.
So there is, quote, "no sunk cost"
to get ready if you don't move forward,
and all of the professionals, a number of which,
including myself, are under contract
on that basis with RTD.
And if it doesn't work when we're ready,
we can wait because every day, it
will get better subject to changes in interest rates.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you very much, Mike.
That concludes our presentation at this point,
so we'd be happy to answer any questions
that the committee may have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: MacLeod, Mr. Morgan, and Mr. Newman,

thank you very much for the presentation.
And Mr. Newman, thank you for drilling into that the way
you did.
I very much appreciate this.
I've had the benefit of having some meetings with you all.
So I will certainly have some more questions
and some comments, but I'll start with other
directors here.
So Director Broom first, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair.
A couple of questions.
One, can the Federal Reserve, when they meet later
on this month, file this up?
And then, second, is any COVID money
being used as part of the refinancing?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: Doug and Brenden,
why don't I take the first part and hand the second part to you
if that's OK?

DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
MICHAEL NEWMAN: The bond markets move ahead of the Fed.
The markets expect the Fed to raise interest rates 75
basis points.
So the market's already priced that in.
If the Fed were to raise interest rates more than 75
or less than 75, I think you'll see a violent reaction.
I think you will see a lot of volatility,
and we are seeing daily volatility anywhere
from five, seven, eight basis points.
But I cannot tell you that their actions cannot,
but I can tell you their actions are expected and priced
in the market.
And the bank market is less volatile than the bond market
because the ability the big buyers in the bond market
are your bond funds, which have been subject to outflows.
And with interest rates rising, you
may see more money flowing out.

Whereas the banks have that steady source of capital.
We have that commitment from the bank.
So really, it's just subject to where rates go,
but that increase is factored into the market already
as well as subsequent increases in the Fed funds rates.
DOUG MACLEOD: And thank you.
Sorry.
To answer the second part of your question,
Director Broom, regarding COVID funds, no.
This funding, this excess funding, of up to $95 million
in cash that will come from the unrestricted reserves
was generated essentially from 2021.
There was $127 million in savings on operating expenses
from the budget.
We've also had higher than expected cash
flows coming in through our sales and use taxes.
Regarding the COVID funding, that
is all being drawn on a reimbursement basis using

salaries and wages of actual expenditures,
as well as contracted services for our fixed rate services.
BOB BROOM: That's my questions.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom.
I appreciate it.
Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, thanks.
Two questions just for communication purposes,
which is my back of the napkin math
shows that the capital cost to actually take this-go forward with this ends up at about-we're talking about $152 million gross savings,
but it costs about $134 and one half million to go do this.
So we're talking about $18 million-ish that savings.
Which is, by the way, still great.
But I just want to make sure that I'm understanding
the numbers correctly here.

MICHAEL NEWMAN: Can you say one more time, please?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
So when I looked at we're talking
about $152 million net present value savings on interest.
And in order to actually realize that,
it requires the use of $95 million
of unrestricted funds, $35 million
of debt service reserves, $4 million of COP proceeds,
half a million of transaction costs, which is about $134
and one half million.
So in today's dollars, we're saving about $18 million.
Or am I missing a piece?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: I would say you have the $4 million
of unspent COP proceeds that are only available for use
to the extent there are capital projects left to fund
with respect to the line.
They're not available for anything else.
If they're not used for that purpose,

and my understanding is, it's down to punch list item,
and it's not expected to be spent?
That money would be used-would be deposited to the debt service
account for the certificates of participation
and used for this purpose.
And that's all it can be used for.
The debt service reserve contribution
was funded from proceeds of the certificates of participation.
It was not funded from RTD-generated funds.
So that money is set.
Think of it as a rainy day fund.
If, for some reason, RTD was delayed
in making a lease payment on the 2014 COPs
or failed to make a payment, that reserve fund
would be accessed by the trustee and used to pay bondholders.
And it was never RTD's funds.
I would suggest for your consideration the way

to look at it is the contribution from RTD
is about $90 million in the last cash flow run.
And in return for that $90 million
that RTD would pay anyway, as Brenden said,
because you owe that money.
By paying that today, you would realize present value savings
today of $150 million, more than 50%
return on that cash invested.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it.
That is helpful, and I think, also, owning our assets
and freeing those up if we needed
to take on more debt in the future is great.
On the note of debt, my second question is, given-I think pretty much everyone's projecting
we're going into a recession.
Very few people are not projecting that,
and while inflation is going up, I
know sales tax can also take a hit

in the midst of a recession.
And maybe this is a Doug question.
By draining down $35 million in debt reserves,
are we properly padded in case of a recession?
That's really, I think, at this point
my biggest concern is, I don't want to drain down our debt
to realize savings today if I know
I'm about to have tough economic times
and I'm not 100% confident I'm going
to be able to pay it tomorrow.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Dishell.
That's a great question, certainly.
Where we ended up at the end of last year, 2021
in our audited financial statements,
we have $516 million in unrestricted reserves.
That represents about 10 months of operating expenses.
Our fiscal policy goal is to have three months in reserves
to adjust for any emergencies or downturns in the economy, which

would affect our sales and use taxes.
So when Mike and Brennan spoke to having
the excess funding available, it would really
come out of that $516 million.
So we're way ahead of where we need
to be on our fiscal policy.
But looking forward, yes, we've had several conversations
about the outlook and what that means, especially
if it's a prolonged and deep recession.
We do feel that we have the wherewithal
to weather that without digging too deeply into reserves.
And even if we do dig into reserves,
we'll still be replacing them.
We'll be coming to the Finance Committee.
We'll be discussing a little bit the mid-term financial plan
a little bit later.
That'll give a layout in September of what
that forecast looks like.

But what I could do to offer some assurance is we still
have approximately, I believe, it's $350 million
left to draw in COVID relief funding.
We also have some increases in our 5307 preventive maintenance
grants that have been provided for the bipartisan
infrastructure legislation, and we also
have received, since the last mid-term financial plan,
an additional $53 million.
So it's not to say that we have so much money,
we want to be reckless with it.
But we do feel in the finance area,
and as well speaking with General Manager Johnson,
that we are in a good position to meet our strategic plan
as well as weather a recession.
MICHAEL NEWMAN: And just to follow on Doug's comment,
the use of those funds will provide reoccurring savings
by reducing operating expenses because of the reduction
in interest expense.

Because that debt's retired, not refinanced.
So it will make that liquidity position actually go further
than it would otherwise.
BRENDEN MORGAN: And if I may add one additional point as well?
I think that was a good, fantastic question.
Agreeing with both everything Doug and Mike said,
I would add that the $35 million worth of debt service
reserve funds that you specifically asked about.
Those funds are specifically restricted
for the protection of the investors that
own the 2014 COPs.
So we would not be able to access those funds
for operating expenses.
Say if we ran into a recession, we
would not be able to pull those funds out and spend them,
so to speak.
BOBBY DISHELL: Those $35 are the private markets, the debt
service coverage ratio.

Public market and debt service reserves.
Is that a fair analogy?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Mike, do you want
to go ahead and take that one?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: Think of it as the investor's own money
provided to you to make sure you can always pay them back
if you have a hiccup.
They're funding it with their own money
to make sure you can make a payment if you have a hiccup.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
Thank you all.
I'm all set.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell.
Director Guissinger, please?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
Just a couple of questions talking about an acquisition
of an asset.
Just to be clear, what's the asset?

Is it the inline rail itself?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
Yes.
MICHAEL NEWMAN: Yeah, it's the line.
It's the flyovers.
It's the stations.
It is the entire line and all that it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And when this came to us in March,
it seemed like there was a difference.
Maybe it was the $103 to $120 that you
were talking about earlier.
But there was a difference of some, $17, $18 million,
something like that, that was the difference
between refinancing with COPs versus refinancing with bonds.
Have you moved away from that?
I'm not hearing any of that tonight.
Is there a reason?
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure.

I'll start, and I'll let Mike and Brenden fill in the gaps.
So, eventually, as Mike indicated,
there's not enough TABOR capacity
to do the full refunding left.
We also have the expiration of the TABOR refunding
that bond Counsel has stated that they would only
be comfortable signing off on a refinancing within 20
years of that voter approval, which would put us
at November of 2024.
So we've got not much time left.
And with the markets, the interest rate
markets continually flowing up and down,
with the committee and the Board's approval
to move forward with this transaction,
we have up to a year to actually exercise the transaction.
So we can take advantage of the best market conditions.
So we're watching.
We have interest rate risk.

We also believe that we will save money
by doing this transaction rather than going to the bond markets.
And then, Brenden and Mike, could you
fill in the gaps on that, too?
Go ahead.
BRENDEN MORGAN: I'll go first.
That's a good question, and I guess
the first thing I would say is that after we spoke
to the Board, we issued this request for information
to our underwriter pool, asking for the best ideas
to help RTD refinance this transaction in the most
economically beneficial way to RTD.
And that's really where our focus went.
So the place where we landed here
using FasTracks bonds to refund or refinance
these certificates of participation
was the most economical and most fiscally advantageous
to RTD that we could come up with.

So in my mind, that's a big reason
why we have landed in this particular position
with this particular proposed resolution.
MICHAEL NEWMAN: And whether we use FasTracks bonds
or certificates of participation,
we're subject to the same constraints under tax law.
So we start with FasTracks bonds attracting a lower interest
rate than COPs.
If we are in the public market, we have to sell and do this now
to remove the interest rate risk.
You're looking at either taxable FasTracks or taxable COPs.
So that the structure lends itself
to the taxable and then the tax-exempt.
And then, we could use certificates of participation
with the banks possibly, but it's easier for them
to extend credit to RTD for a longer term with a higher
security and credit rating of the FasTracks bonds.
And these are the reasons that the Cinderella structure,

while we can apply it equally to FasTracks or COPS,
yields greater savings to RTD with the FasTracks.
And we would have to reassess the bank's appetite
to lend for 20 years on a lease appropriation
as opposed to ongoing pledge of sales tax through TABOR.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So before, where
you had the different options, you
don't know exactly whether you could do that second option,
or how much that would save at this point?
Is that what you're saying?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: We're actually in the process
of updating that savings capacity-- that savings
difference right now.
We know it's there.
We're trying to update and quantify it
today to compare it to where it was,
but we know it's still significant.
We know when we spoke to the banks, they asked us questions.

Is this FasTracks debt that we would buy for 20 years?
Or is this certificates of appropriation?
We said, sales tax, and they said, fine.
So we would have to revisit that,
but we know there is a significant economic advantage
to FasTracks versus COPs.
And we're just updating it this week.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
Director Cook, I saw your hand up.
Was your question answered there?
SHELLEY COOK: It was.
Thanks so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much.
I'm not seeing other hands.
I had a couple of comments that I
do have some questions as well.
First of all, I did want to highlight that Committee Vice

Chair and Board Second Vice Chair Catlin
and I had discussed I would like to recommend that we pull this
from the unanimous consent if this were to move forward.
So I just want to make that comment before we go ahead
and take the vote that I think we should bring this
to the full Board.
It's a substantial transaction.
And along those lines of this being substantial,
I would also just say, first of all,
thank you very much to Mr. MacLeod, Mr. Morgan, and
Mr. Newman.
This is a creative, and good, and substantial
savings opportunity.
So thank you for the hard work, and thank you
for bringing this here.
I had just a couple of questions I wanted to ask.
First, Mr. Newman, you were talking
about the mechanics of the Cinderella bonds, and is there

any remaining risk to these not becoming tax-exempt?
Or have we ruled out any of those risks?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: The old saying is,
you should never say always, and never say never.
The only writ the condition precedent
to converting from taxable to tax-exempt,
there are two requirements.
One is the provision of an opinion of bond Counsel
that the securities are tax-exempt.
Bond Counsel has already provided that exact opinion
with the 2014 COPs and is fully involved in this transaction
as he expressed no reservation regarding his ability
to provide that opinion.
The second item that is required for the conversion
from an interest rate of taxable to tax-exempt
is the filing of a form.
It's called form 8038G.
It is simply a form to be completed and filed

with the United States government
as RTD does every time it issues tax-exempt debt.
But we simply fill the numbers and put it in.
I cannot say the risk of conversion has been eliminated.
I can say all steps possible to ensure
there is no problem with the conversion have been taken.
On council has reviewed this, and I literally
am repeating what he explained to me when
I asked this question of him.
I think it's a very appropriate question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much.
I appreciate that.
Shifting gears a little bit, obviously with the time frame
to get this done, there is a risk to the growth savings
should we see changes in interest rates and so forth.
Hence why we're approving up to a certain amount.
But I'm wondering, maybe this is for you, Mr. MacLeod.
What you see as being the risk to the growth savings?

And about how long you're expecting
as you project and think about when we
might get a transaction done?
And what might be the threshold to say coming back to the Board
if it looks like the savings are at substantial risk?
DOUG MACLEOD: Absolutely, and we would want, obviously,
the committee to approve and then
the full Board to approve it at the Board meeting.
Once that is accomplished, I believe
there's additional work that's still
going on with paperwork, as Mike referred to,
regarding bond Counsel.
Which we'll be working on in the meantime.
But as soon as that approval's obtained from the Board,
assuming it would be obtained from the Board,
we would have the flexibility to move on that transaction
as soon as markets indicate.
And we always look to Mike Newman and his team.

He refers to it as his desk, but they constantly watch
interest rates in the market and would advise us
on when a good time would be to make that transaction occur.
Mike, anything to add to that?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: Doug has been very clear
in his leadership in this initiative
that if we're going to move forward to try and do this
that we need to be in a position to present the opportunity
to RTD to execute as soon as possible
once approvals are in place assuming those approvals
are provided.
So as Doug has mentioned, we're continuing every day
to move the documentation forward.
And I would expect we'd be in a position to price
and close approximately two to three weeks after approval
of the financing if it's approved by the Board.
We should be in a position.
The banks have offered RTD the ability

to lock in interest rates on these bonds today.
The contract is referred to as a rate lock agreement.
And I bring this up because MA and I
have discussed this via email the last couple of days.
And Doug, and Brenden, and I have talked about it.
RTD can execute the rate lock today,
and the banks have offered the rate
lock at no incremental cost to the interest rate on the bonds.
So the obvious question is, why not do that?
Or it's always if something sounds too good to be true,
it probably is.
If you sign a rate lock agreement,
they have agreed not to increase the interest
rate versus waiting because it would be inside of 30 days.
They know our expected timing.
But if you sign that rate lock agreement and don't complete
the transaction, whether it's because the Board doesn't
approve this or anything else, RTD

would have to terminate that contract
and would be exposed to potential payment to the banks.
So my Counsel has been to MA, Doug, and Brenden.
If you want to consider a rate lock agreement, that's fine,
but you shouldn't consider it until and if the Board approves
the financing because only then do you know you could
actually execute.
And I would never encourage a client
to enter into that type of agreement
without authority to enter into the transaction
from the governing body.
Then, once the Board approves it,
if we're in a position to close within two weeks, you have-you're only looking at it.
You're going to look at an interest rate over two weeks
and have to decide, am I concerned
about rates moving that much that I want to incur this risk?
Or do I just let the rates float?

But it is something we have discussed,
and that's why we continue to move as quickly as we can
to get documents in good shape.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That makes a lot of sense,
and thank you for commenting on that.
I appreciate the detail there.
I see that Director Broom, you've raised your hand.
So I'll go ahead and yield to you, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair.
I was just curious about conversations with the
rating agencies?
Who will be rating these bonds, and have
they made any comments?
MICHAEL NEWMAN: Because these are
direct placements with the banks,
no rating is required on the bonds.
The banks as purchasers will sign
which are referred to as a sophisticated investment letter

and will represent that they have the sophistication
to assess the credit.
And they will be asked to represent all information they
have requested or feel they need to do that credit assessment
has been provided to them.
RTD is subject to certain disclosure requirements
under existing agreements related
to its outstanding bonds.
So assuming if the Board approves this transaction,
once it's done, copies of these bond documents
will both be posted on Emma, which
is a disclosure service run by the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, and provided to the rating agencies.
I am not concerned about a reaction from the rating
agencies because the banks will be given no more or no less
than the rights given to other FasTracks holders.
So they're getting the same security
that the rating agencies know well.

Typically, where you run into a problem
is when you start giving banks different rights and remedies.
But here, they are receiving the exact same rights and remedies
as the public holders as well.
And I failed to mention this.
These bonds, like the existing bonds of RTD,
will be subject to optional redemption at the option of RTD
after 10 years.
But they will be provided, and if you step back,
legally, this is an acquisition of assets.
From a practical perspective, it's
a refinancing, so we're simply lowering the fixed obligations
of RTD, reducing its debt outstanding,
and publicly sharing all the documents as required
by existing contracts of RTD.
So no, I don't expect any reaction
except possibly a compliment.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom.
And along the lines of the bond rating,
you mentioned that the COPs were at a lower rating
than our FasTracks bonds.
What's the rating on the COPs?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Right now, I believe Standard & Poor's has
a AA rating on our COPs, and the FasTracks bonds are AA+.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great.
Thank you.
Excellent.
Well, thanks.
This makes sense.
I appreciate it.
To me, again, I thank you very much for the work on this.
We did receive an opinion from bond Counsel
that we do run the risk of not receiving
an unqualified opinion to use our FasTracks bonding
authority as we approach 2024.

So I appreciate the opportunity to leverage that
for some substantial savings.
I think, also, the demonstrating of our ability
to use COPs for the N Line agree with Director Dishell
and everything that was presented tonight
that unencumbering assets is a good thing
and a good use of that bonding authority
to open that up for future projects
since we have demonstrated the ability
to do that in a way that was quite effective.
I also appreciate the fact that-and Mr. MacLeod, thanks for going into where we
are with our current reserves.
I think, given that we have some money right now
due to underspend on the budget, it makes sense
to put that to work in a way that, I think,
improves our out years.
And I know something that's come up here a number of times

is the base system feeding into our debt service and FasTracks.
And I know something that's all top of mind
for us is if we're able to recruit more workforce,
leveraging the CBA that was recently approved.
We need to bring service back, and that
means we're looking at those out years
and needing to relieve future funding for our operations.
So I certainly appreciate the opportunity
to leverage some of our cash now to open up more operational
funds later.
So thank you very much.
I think we'll go ahead and move to a vote.
I'm not seeing any other discussions
unless, Director Broom, I see your hand is up.
Any further questions?
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem.
So thank you very much.

I really appreciate the depth of discussion here
and presentation.
I'm going to go ahead and call for the vote.
We will do this.
Just as a reminder, we had the mover as Director Dishell,
the second as Director Catlin.
Are there any no votes on this action?
Seeing none.
The motion will pass with seven ayes and zero nays.
And, once again, I'll just mention
I think that this is worth it.
It's a substantial transaction, so I
think this is worth not having in our unanimous consent
at the upcoming Board meeting and having
an abbreviated discussion of the matter.
The Board, which I will leave to the Chair of the Board.
Thank you very much, everybody, for the presentation.
Thanks for the time we've spent time on this.

We're going to go ahead and move to our second
recommended action.
This is with regards to the Zero Fair General Election Day.
This is for the Board of Directors
to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee
to implement zero fares on October 28th, 2022, which
is National Vote Early Day and November eighth, 2022, which
is General Election Day.
Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second?
Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mover as Director Whitmore.
Second is Dishell.
Thank you very much.
I will now hand off to Mr. Michael Davies, Government
Relations officer.

And, again, I believe, Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial
Officer, to present the item to the committee.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes.
Thank you, Chair, and members of the committee.
Michael Davies, Government Relations officer.
I'll begin and then see if Mr. MacLeod has
any additional comments.
So some background.
On March 22th, during the Board of Directors meeting,
Director Bouquet raised the question and the direction
to explore RTD's ability to offer zero fare transit
service during elections.
As part of the Board discussion on that item,
it was expressed that some feedback
from the Secretary of State's office,
as well as the County Clerks and Recorders, was desired.
So in line with the Board direction,
staff met recently with both the Secretary

of State's office and the County Clerks
and Recorders for the eight County RTD service area.
And largely asked them for their feedback and any direction
they have that we could bring back to the Board.
In summary, the Secretary of State's office and the clerks
support RTD's effort to explore zero fare service to remove
barriers for voting.
As noted by the Directors during the March 22nd meeting,
Colorado is a heavy vote-by-mail state.
The clerks and the Secretary of State's office
echoed that fact and very much recommended in-line with that
that RTD's efforts would align best
with the Secretary of State and the clerks
by considering providing zero fare on National Vote Early
Day, which is October 28th, 2022.
That would very much align with the clerk's message
of not waiting until Election Day to cast your ballot.
So, further, while the priority and suggestion

and recommendation from the clerks was for RTD's Board
to consider National Vote Early Day, the majority of clerks
also supported the offering zero fare service on Election Day
as well.
So lastly, as stated, the priority for the clerks
was to promote early voting.
With that in mind, RTD staff did take the opportunity
while we had the clerks convened to also talk about the existing
process that RTD has in place to place-and partner with counties to place ballot
drop boxes and deploy those drop boxes on RTD property.
The clerks were very excited to talk about that aspect
of this initiative as well.
They very much appreciated hearing all of RTD's details
in that process.
Documents were distributed to the clerks,
and an RTD point of contact was also distributed and made
for the clerks awareness for any clerks that

were interested in partnering who to reach out to,
and how to reach out to RTD to initiate that process.
So, again, that was very much welcomed by the clerks,
and they very much supported including
this item in the discussion with zero fare on Election Day
and on National Vote Early Day.
So with that, that will-I'll conclude my remarks and happy to answer any questions.
But I will pause and see if Mr. MacLeod
has any additional comments as well.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Michael.
I would just like to point out that the financial impact
per day is anticipated to be upwards of $356,000.
That's a conservative estimate, and those
are the same numbers that were generated in preparation
for zero fare August.
So just we're being consistent in our approach,
and what we potentially see on a daily basis what

that could cost for having a zero fare day.
I just wanted to point that out.
So thank you, Michael, and that concludes
our comments, Mr. Davidson.
Mr. Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
Thank you very much.
I will open up the floor for questions.
We'll start with Committee Vice-Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
I think, Michael, we talked about this briefly.
Did you discuss with the clerks any way to maybe track results,
or how effective this might be?
Just so we know going forward if, in fact, this
is an effective way of getting additional voters out?
Or is there any way to capture that data?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Mr. Chair, if I may?
Yes, Director.

So we did raise this with the clerks
and largely asked the clerks data
that they had on percentages of people who vote by mail,
or come in-person, or use ballot drop boxes as noted.
And only a few clerks gave us examples on this,
but the clerks that did have those numbers at hand
did indicate, as the Board mentioned during the discussion
on March 22nd, is that Colorado is a heavy vote-by-mail state.
So upwards of 88% of ballots that come in
are through drop boxes or through mail,
and sometimes as little as 5% of the overall vote is in-person.
The clerks did seem to think that zero fare transit would
also encourage people to go to ballot drop boxes,
and it isn't just strictly for voting
in-person that this would be a benefit.
That said, I think the way to measure that would only
be through the clerks being able to report their overall voter
participation for that time.

I think it would be difficult to determine exactly
did you go vote because zero fare transit was in place?
I think it's overall a messaging,
and it's an encouragement in removing one barrier that
may be in place for folks to be able to either go and vote
in-person or utilize a ballot drop box
and use transit to go to a ballot drop box.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much.
I appreciate the question and the answer.
I will go to Director Bouquet.
Thanks for joining the committee tonight.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for having me
and a big thank you for staff for taking
this original inquiry and turning it
into a recommended action.
I was very excited to see that we've made this progress all
the way here, and I'm very excited to see, especially
during a midterm election, which generally has lower

voter turnout.
Where, as Mr. Davis had mentioned,
if we're able just to remove the barrier for one
individual voter, for a voter who
hasn't had the ability to vote in the past?
That's huge.
That's huge as an agency, and I'm really excited for it.
And not to put the cart before the horse, but I do
hope this committee does ultimately go forward
with this recommended action.
Again, I know we're one of the lucky states where
we have easy access where a lot of folks do vote by mail.
But, again, the power and the significant impact
that our agency will have if this ultimately
becomes an action for voters who might have been discouraged
because they couldn't get transit to a dropbox.
Or they couldn't just access a dropbox.
I just think how significant and historically huge

this could be for the agency.
So that's the comments I'd like to offer,
and I do hope the committee ultimately votes yes
on this recommendation.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments, Director Bouquet.
Much appreciated.
Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you.
First, I want to say, I really appreciate the spirit
in which this is being offered.
I can see a lot of upside to it.
And I'm just having trouble getting to a yes.
My worry is that we are, at the same time,
reducing service permanently as a function of our finances.
And when I see $356,000, I see a circulator
for a community each year.
Or I see extending a route or doing something

more frequently, and I'm having trouble
justifying what we think will benefit actually
a pretty small number of people given our very
robust and stellar election system at the expense
of the broader number of people we might serve
who work-- who we're talking about now permanently
not serving.
So as a matter of priorities and using scarce resources,
mine would be with trying to preserve services.
If we're able to forego this $356,000
without curtailing service-I mean, costs in place, then I'd rather
use that money for service-related items
somehow, especially since we're facing now,
not just for the 2027 time frame,
but all the way through 2050 unless we
can raise new revenues.
And the second thing is, we haven't completed the fare

study yet.
And I was thinking if that study showed us
that it would be beneficial to forego
a certain amount of revenue, $700,000 a year,
that might highlight areas where it would be more beneficial.
So we don't have the benefit of the information
that we would get from that very study
to identify the best places where we might reduce fares.
So I think given both of those things,
and, again, I could argue the other side of this
pretty easily if we weren't in such financial straits.
But I can't, at this point, support it.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments, Director Cook.
If I may ask for-and I'm not sure.
Did you have anyone in mind for a question there,
Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: No, I was just stating my position.
Thank you, though.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much.
And if I may, we did have some discussion.
I'm wondering if Mr. MacLeod and/or Ms.
Johnson would want to comment on whether there
is a trade-off here?
And I know when I look at this, we have some sunk costs.
And with the zero fare for better air,
we were estimating some increases
to cost, but also, essentially, what we're allocating-Would either one of you mind commenting on whether or not
there is a trade-off to this action of service
and providing the zero fare on these days?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
Thank you very kindly, and thank you, Director Cook,
for posing the questions and putting forth your position.
It's valid.

I will start, then yield the floor to Mr. MacLeod.
So as we look at this holistically
when Director MacKay brought forth this initiative,
we as staff said, we would assess it.
I personally responded and said that I had experience
with zero fare on general election days
in other parts of the country.
With that as a backdrop and recognizing what
we are preparing to embark upon during the month of August,
this Board action before you is primarily
just for this general election going forward.
We do have a fare study and equity
analysis that's underway.
There will be information that will be brought to this body
to make informed decisions about what the fare policy would be.
And so, for all intents and purposes,
this is being viewed as a pilot as it's the one time,
and we can garner some information

to make a more informed decision about what the policy may be.
To the point in reference to having funds,
Mr. MacLeod in the last agenda item
did reference where we might be in relationship
to supplemental funds as relates to discretionary dollars that
could be available.
So as we look at this going forward,
I think there is a return on the investment in reference
to creating access for a vulnerable population that
may not be able to exercise their constitutional right.
So that's the context I wanted to provide.
But from a more concrete vantage point and what you asked,
Director Cook, I will yield the floor-or I should say Chair Day even said
as well about the trade-off.
I will yield the floor to our CFO, Doug MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, General Manager Johnson.
The only thing I would comment on

is when we do these single days individually,
it doesn't necessarily present a problem
from our fare perspective in terms of our passes.
So in reference to our college passes
and our eco passes, which make up approximately 40%
of our fare revenue historically,
what we would get from that is we wouldn't see a cash
decrease immediately.
But because we use utilization for the pricing and following
years, that utilization would be slightly reduced.
So it would be a delayed impact.
And then, the fare study and equity analysis
will come into play in the interim, too.
So it's not necessarily an all-cash concern at this point.
And also, I would also add to General Manager Johnson's
point, too, that the federal funding may be an option
as well to replace that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the comments, the both

of you.
And Director Cook, thank you for the position.
Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and thank you
to Michael and all of you for moving this forward.
You started to answer this question,
but it would help me, Doug, if you
could explain how we calculate for the zero fare August
and for these days?
Are we taking some percentage of the pass revenue?
Are we counting everything as a loss?
Do we just project all our riders and put $3 on it
or whatever the number is?
How do we go about doing that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Good question.
So what we did for this calculation, as well
as the calculations for the grant associated with zero fare
August, is we had projected ridership, which is also

projecting into our fare revenue for the budget for 2022
using that projected ridership.
And we know that we've been falling
a little bit short of that.
To this point, however, in order to work with Colorado Energy
Office to ensure that they knew the upside of what
we could potentially be drawing for in that grant.
We assumed that we would use the budgeted ridership, which,
as I mentioned, is higher than our actual
experience currently.
And then, we applied an average fare rate.
So, essentially, we used what our average collections are.
Our average revenue is per rider.
Applied that and then come up with the $303,000.
And I would mention that that is a weekday average calculation.
Obviously, it would be different on a Saturday or Sunday.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And we include our passholders and everyone
in that?

DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: As we get that in the future?
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Back to Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
I just wanted to thank Director McKay as well as Director
Lewis, who I know has been championing
this effort before 2020 crop od us that was put on the Board.
And thank you all for putting it forward.
To me, it's an easy yes.
While, Director Cook, I hear you about,
well, this could be a circulator in a community.
I'd love to hear that when we're talking about an $8 million
fare study.
I'd love to hear-- $8 million study on things we've already
talked about on studies we already know the answer to,
the Northwest study.
I'd love to hear that when we're talking

about the study in August.
It just seems not to be aligned, but I
think this is a huge opportunity for us
to be aligned with our strategic plan
to deliver community value.
To help people with their constitutional rights.
And while, yes, absolutely, we're
primarily a vote-by-mail state, there's
a lot of folks who don't vote by mail.
And there's an opportunity for us
to help those folks who may miss the announcement
that the last day to vote by mail
is a week before the Election Day.
And help with messaging to maybe get
folks who were going to mail their ballots to actually drop
them off in-person because they missed the deadline.
Which, Mr. Davies or whomever, that would be an interesting,
I think, marketing standpoint to make sure

that we are telling folks.
Hey, you can still drop off your ballot, actually.
Please don't mail it in.
And be clear on what that last mail-in date is.
And part like that with a marketing effort around,
hey, you can't mail it anymore.
You can't come drop it off, and look at how many ballots we're
saving from being toss because they actually got in on time
through a mail drop-in.
So yeah.
That's all I got.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for comments, Director Dishell.
I'm seeing no other hands.
I did have a question.
I think this is for the General Manager related
to our strategic priorities in community value.
I think that we all recognize, and we had an opportunity,
recently, to see the marketing opportunity

for zero fare for better air.
And a chance to celebrate in the community what we're doing,
and how we're contributing to sustaining planet Earth,
and delivering community value.
I think, similarly, this presents an opportunity
for a marketing effort.
I'm sure we'll come up with a good name.
Zero fare to vote fair.
I don't know, but I would like to see
if we're going to do this to have some real investment
in the marketing side.
And so, I'm wondering just if-and General Manager Johnson, you wouldn't
mind commenting on where you see this in terms
of marketing priorities?
Where you see this fit in the community value
strategic priority?
And if you have thoughts based on your prior experience

with these types of programs, how
we might be able to market this and drive community value?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much,
Chair Davidson, for the question.
And I think if anything, if we're
going to do something collectively in this Board,
is voting on a policy relative to ensuring that we're
leveling the playing field for access
to a constitutional right.
That we will be marketing this.
We will not be silent and be passive in reference
to making this known.
Actually, earlier today, as we talk
about zero fare for better air, I
was speaking with our communication staff
in relationship to leveraging the same covers
that we will use for our-oh my gosh, I'm having a brain gap here.

In reference to our fare boxes.
So we can invest.
So when we look at things going forward,
holistically, we don't need to reinvest.
We can say zero fare, so we're capitalizing
on some of the marketing materials
that we'll have going forward.
Because for all intents and purposes, all of this
is about better air collectively as we look to remove cars
from the roadway.
So we will be having a conversation,
and that will ensue once the Board takes in-takes up for consideration the path forward.
And we will be doing this in earnest
with the various election representatives
throughout the county as well.
Because we can leverage their information.
And also recognizing the early vote day as well as we

go forward.
And that's where we'll leave it in reference to qualifying
some great naming-branding, I should say, for this initiative going forward.
So we will keep you apprised, and I
know Michael Davies has something else to add
to this because I know that conversation
had ensued as well.
So if we can, Mr. Chair, I'd like
to yield the floor to Mr. David.
Davies, not Davidson.
I get confused.
MICHAEL DAVIES: And thank you, Chair Davidson.
I just wanted to add, and I should have
included this in my remarks.
But the comments from both the clerks and Secretary
of State's office very much wanted to partner
with us on promotion, and how we can best get that word out.

They even offered that there's a potential for funding
to help with that promotion.
And that they would very much invest alongside with RTD
in making sure that anybody and everybody knows
that this is happening, and this is an option for them.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much to the both of you
for the comments.
I think that represents there's a great opportunity here,
as Director Bouquet said.
If we can help even just one somebody out,
I think that that's important.
And then, also, I know we all know
that RTD is in need of improving our perception
and image in the community.
And in a time when, I think, many of us
are thinking about how to make voting more accessible,
more fair.
And when that's important to many stakeholders in Colorado,

I think it's a good time to engage
and partner with some of those folks that you mentioned,
Mr. Davies.
I see, Director Guissinger, your hand is up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you for a second chance.
I asked a question, just a quick comment, that I agree.
I think that this is a way that many, many people, many groups,
and the state, and local counties
would get involved in helping RTD promote this.
And it's an important step in our community value goals.
So I will support it as well.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the presentation.
Thank you for the comments.
Also, thank you, Directors Bouquet and Lewis,
for working to bring this forward as I understand.
We'll go ahead.
I'm seeing no other comments.

I'm going to go ahead and call for the vote.
And I'll go ahead and do this one Director-by-Director here.
So we'll do just a roll-call vote.
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Now Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
Sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am a yes.

That will be five yes votes, two no votes,
and the motion passes.
We will go ahead.
Thank you, everybody, for the comments and discussion
there, good discussion.
We'll go ahead and move to our final recommended action
this evening.
This is for the 2022 contract amendment for the Platte
Boiler project.
This is for the Board of Directors
to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee
to amend contract number 19DD-001 with Rasmussen
Mechanical Services to increase the not-to-exceed amount
by $840,000 from $904045 to $1744045
for the purchase and installation of three
replacement boilers at the Platte garage.
Do we have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, please?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We have the mover, Director Broom.
The second, Director Guissinger.
With that, I'm going to hand the ball to Henry Stopplecamp,
our Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
to present the item to the committee.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Good evening, and thank you, Mr. Chair.
Thanks to the Board members that are here tonight.
Along with me, I've got Joyce, our Chief engineer,
and Chris Gaul, our mechanical engineer, that is leading up
the charge on this project.
First thing, I'd just like to remind
everybody is our Platte facility is over 40 years old now,
and we are using vintage piping, ventilation, electrical,
and all that.
So you received the request for the increase in dollar amount.
We did settle with the installer that

installed the original three boilers back in 2014.
Too late in 2021 to go ahead and install over
the fall of last year, and we didn't
want to be without heat over the winter.
So why we had the time of nursing through the winter
last year?
We looked at the entire system, not just the three boilers.
We looked at all the piping, the ventilation, the electrical,
the brains behind the system to see what
do we really have out there?
So just replacing the three boilers with old technology.
The control systems were 2012 vintage.
Some of the piping goes back to the original facility
and electrical conduit, so we wanted
to upgrade as we went through.
So that's why the price has increased.
And then, putting it out on the market,
the increase in material and labor hit this project as well.

So we've looked at the valves, the piping events,
but we should see a savings of about $50,000 per year
on our utilization per power.
We use natural gas and backup on diesel.
It will reset the entire system.
That's the, once again, the piping, electrical,
the mechanical, the brains.
Back to a 25-year useful life, thus reducing the maintenance,
increase the efficiency of the system,
and minimize the risk of components failure.
The other thing this will also do
for us is reduce CO2 emissions.
And, then on the Board report, there
were three pictures attached to give our body an update where
we stand.
The electrical engineers were out there this week
and electricians doing the electrical work.
We should be hanging pipe next week.

And then, as we go forward, we will
be upgrading the computer system if the Board goes along
with this action.
So with that, I'd like to open up to discussion.
A lot of information, and we've got a lot of good answers
for the team as need be.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the presentation.
I'll go to Director Dishell first, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Director Davidson,
and thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp.
Did we explore any all-electric options?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: As far as all-electric?
BOBBY DISHELL: For heating?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We have looked
at electric across the system at these facilities.
If we went all-electric, we had to re-pipe and plumb
the whole facility.
So we went back to replacement in kind,

and that was part of the lawsuit we had against the installers.
So they went ahead and came up for the funding for the three
replacement boilers.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
And I think I asked this any time we get MTPA increase.
But what have we changed on a systems level
to avoid this in the future?
Whether that's signoff on install or regular maintenance?
Have we made any systemic changes
to avoid these types of costs going forward?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is a great question,
and the answer is yes.
There's a couple of things, especially on this project.
One of the reasons we needed to increase the contract price
is there was a gap between the general contractor doing
the installation and the building automation
group that did the programming of the brains for the system.
So the initiation and the turn-on of the new boilers

was not watched as closely as it could have been.
There was a gap between the installation
and the manufacture of the boilers.
So now, we've written that into the specs.
We also have put over the start-up as a responsibility
of the contractor.
And then, the funds we had originally
put aside for the controls, Johnson Controls,
we assigned that to-that's one of the reasons for the increase of the
dollar amount.
It was still part of the project,
but that falls now underneath the general contractor that's
doing the installation.
So it's a single point of responsibility.
And then, we also have got-- we've brought Chris Gaul on,
for example, who was not here in 2014.
And then, we also have Johnson Controls, a different side,

looking over the start-up and initiation of the system.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell.
And if I may, just a quick follow-up on that.
We previously did have in-house building automation folks.
Is that correct?
Have we moved fully to outsourced JCI
professional services?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We actually had
Johnson Controls looking at building an automation
system for us.
Then we brought it in-house.
Unfortunately, the two employees that were doing our building
automation have left RTD, and we are
in the process of bringing somebody else on dedicated.
We have some employees that do little pieces, i.e.
Chris, but we do not have a full-time building automation

person today.
But we do have Johnson Controls on-board to manage the system
across the district.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Got you.
Thank you.
I appreciate the chance to follow-up there on
Director Dishell's.
Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thanks.
So, Henry, we've seen this at least a couple of times.
The first one that came through mentioned
that we were pursuing action against Legacy Mechanical,
the installer, and Unilux Boiler, the manufacturer,
to recover our insurance deductible.
And then, in 2021, we talked about a July 2021 trial
for the original contractor.
Do we know what happened there?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We won.

So we get the cost of all three boilers transferred over
to RTD, and that was the settlement
we had with the installer and the general contractor.
And we had a subsequent claim against the manufacturer
and his subs, but we got the money for all three boilers.
And so, at that point, we wanted to go ahead and install.
We ran out of time last fall, so we looked at the entire system.
So we could eliminate weak points in the system
and reset the clock for another 25 years for these boilers.
SHELLEY COOK: So that's what you were saying.
The second thing is, the last one was a bid by Rasmussen.
So weren't they held to the original $800
and some thousand?
I think you're trying to explain this.
I'm just not following it.
Why the added cost if they had bid on the contract?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So Rasmussen was not part of the original.
That was Legacy.

These guys did bid on the work for last year.
Since we had not settled, they had
agreed upon one of the boilers, and they had already
purchased this for us.
So we got that at that cost, but we've also
increased the scope to eliminate old valves that are out there.
Redundant and obsolescence electrical lines
that are out there.
Then the Johnson Controls portion,
we threw from Johnson Controls underneath Rasmussen.
So we increased the scope for them.
They've pretty much lived up to what they committed to,
but there has been some increase since they
didn't do it last fall as we wanted them to do.
And that was part of the delay that we got on the claims
for that third boiler.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it.
Thanks so much.

That's all I have.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Great questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook.
Thank you very much, Mr. Stopplecamp.
Any further questions from Directors?
Seeing none.
With the mover as Director Broom and the second
as Director Guissinger, I will call for the vote.
We'll do this one with asking, are there
any no votes on the action?
Seeing none.
It will pass with seven aye votes, zero no votes,
and zero abstentions.
Thank you very much for the presentation and the work.
Thank you to Directors for the discussion,
and thank you for the discussion on all
of the recommended actions this evening.
That concludes our recommended actions.

We're going to move to our discussion items.
We have one discussion item on the agenda this evening.
It is all important.
It is the 2023 to 2028 mid-term financial plan discussion,
and I would like to ask, again, Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief
Financial Officer, as well as Mr. Todd
Nicole, Senior Manager of Budget,
to present this discussion item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
I'm going to share my screen, attempt to again here.
Just a quick presentation.
We would like to give the Board just
a foreshadowing of what's to come
in terms of the mid-term financial plan
as well as the budget and preparation for that process
as we get into the latter parts of 2022.
So the mid-term financial plan here is the schedule
that we tentatively laid out.

We don't have a meeting with this committee
or the Board in August.
So we wanted to get ahead of it a little bit
and just talk about some of the things that we're seeing,
and some of the things that we're anticipating,
including in that mid-term financial plan.
So tonight, July is the mid-term financial plan discussion,
a chance to ask questions, raise any concerns,
as well as inform this committee about the process
going forward.
September, we would come to the Board asking for your-to this committee first, obviously,
asking for your consideration for
the mid-term financial plan.
That would be an action item.
Again, the mid-term financial plan
is a six-year forecast that's built on top
of the 2022 amended budget.

Then in October, we would come to the Committee for a draft
budget discussion after the formulation and approval
of the mid-term financial plan, which
guides the decision-making for the development of the budget
for next year.
And then, in November, we would ask
the Board and this committee to approve the 2023 budget.
So just as a reminder, the mid-term financial planner
or MTFP.
The purpose of it really is to provide a forecast.
So the Board appropriates a budget on an annual basis.
But we also like to have a forecast, so we can look out
to what's coming in the future.
So it's a six-year forecast.
It provides budget development guidance.
It also rolls into the long-range plan,
which is used by Dr Cog for the transportation improvement
plan in coordination with CDOT and other transportation

providers in the area to look at a long-range plan.
And it also dovetails with the Reimagine process,
obviously, as well.
So what it helps us do is forecast
resource allocation and also aligns
with our strategic priorities, including
items such as how and where to allocate
those resources to provide customer
excellence and community value.
We can then focus our efforts.
Once we establish that forecast, it's
a guiding document that we use for the development
of future budgets.
So, for example, if somebody, a department within RTD
needs to replace an asset based on the asset management plan,
we want to account for that in the mid-term financial plan.
So we see it coming.
We can allocate both financial as well as human resources

to that effort.
The MTFP also identifies any fiscal constraints
or opportunities.
We would bring that one-page cash flow
to this committee that shows it on a consolidated basis
as well as base and FasTracks broken out separately.
We can look at it by year in the major categories of revenue
and expenditures to see if there's
any pinch points or any concerns in terms
of allocating the funding that we are projecting.
And then, it's just a snapshot in time.
Obviously, that will change over time, but by the time
we bring this mid-term financial plan to the Board,
there will be, obviously, changes in interest
or inflation rates, forecast for our sales and use taxes,
and we'll continue to monitor that
past the approval of the mid-term financial plan
and come back to the committee with any updates.

So some of the changes that we've had since last year's
mid-term financial plan, which was
approved in November of 2021.
We've identified additional revenues.
Some examples would be we have higher sales
and use tax forecast.
We have been experiencing better investment returns
with larger investments, too.
As I mentioned earlier, we have a substantial amount of money
in our unrestricted reserve, which
is generating returns, fixed income returns, currently.
And then, we also have additional funding
that wasn't known about from supplemental ARPA
funding of $53 million, as well as some supplemental funding
regarding the bipartisan infrastructure
law attached to preventive maintenance costs.
We've also experienced some positive expenditure variances.
One of the strategic metrics that we

have in the strategic plan is to reduce our budget variances
each year.
We're significantly under budget on our spends.
We're trying to reduce that to be more-to achieve more financial success,
get more accurate forecasting and budgets going forward.
So I mentioned earlier in an earlier presentation
there was $127 million positive variance on our
operating expenses.
We're going to try to narrow that gap
with this next mid-term financial plan,
help us to plan a little bit better.
So that we aren't tying up those financial resources dedicated
to operating expenses.
When we know that there's likelihood we won't use them.
We can dedicate them to other purposes.
Additional asset management clarity.
The asset management team has been working diligently

with all the departments throughout RTD
and refining that asset management plan.
Again, this has a huge tie-in to the strategic priorities,
and where we're going to direct our efforts and our budgets.
So that will continue to change over time, but it'll also-we'll also get better clarity on the backlog, what progress
we've made since last year.
And also, what that looks like going forward.
Another item that we know about at this point.
We had forecasted certain assumptions in the last
mid-term financial plan, but we now have a ratified
and Board-approved-Board-adopted collective bargaining agreement,
which covers the next three years.
So that will be incorporated in the mid-term financial plan.
And we've also been fortunate to reduce
a few significant liabilities, one being the A2
pension liability.

You may recall that a contribution of $160 million
was applied towards that.
We will be coming to the Board with an update in September
regarding the funding of that plan,
but it looks a lot better.
Plus the plan is close, so it decreases
the risk going forward and the exposure for RTD.
And we also had a refinancing last year, a debt refinancing.
And then, we have the proposed refinancing
of the 2014 COPs, which also helps our balance
sheet by reducing liabilities and reducing our future
cash outflows.
Some of the things that we will consider
in the mid-term financial plan.
Obviously, there's a lot of economic volatility going
on, inflation.
It will be a big factor.
We'll, as we have in the past, use

some authoritative guidance, such as Moody's forecast,
for our inflation assumptions to present to the Board.
Currently in the Denver, Aurora area,
the last Bureau of Labor Statistics
inflation calculation through May
was 8.3% over the last 12 months.
We haven't seen that type of inflation
ever, anybody that's here at RTD.
So that would be something that we'll have to address.
And then figure out how are we going to carry that forward.
It'll probably be what we would recommend is assuming whatever
Moody's assumes.
I doubt that they'll assume 8.3% year after year.
But we would want to temper that according
to what they're forecasting, so we have some basis
for those assumptions.
Fuel costs will be another one.
Obviously, fuel costs have doubled.

That could be an additional $15 million in cost,
but we plan to address all those issues
and present those with pretty solid assumptions, which will
certainly change over time.
But at least we'll have a basis for what
we come to the committee with.
We've discussed the recession possibility,
and what that may hold.
The biggest impact for us, I think,
mainly would be on sales and use taxes.
We've asked CU leads to provide the sales and use tax
forecast in August rather than September,
so that we can incorporate those numbers.
And we'll have additional discussions with them
as well regarding recession possibilities and the impact
resulting from that.
We also want to mention agility as a key while maintaining
fiscal discipline.

We want to maintain our fiscal policy
and maintain our reserves for our fiscal health,
but we also want to be agile to make changes and make
adjustments as warranted according
to any strategic priority adjustments.
Any metrics that we're measuring,
if we change metrics or change the way we
need to influence the measurement of those metrics,
it may require additional investment or less investment.
So we want to maintain some agility and ability
to be flexible on the way we move money around.
Obviously, that would come with Board appropriation,
any changes.
Non-financial resource efficiency.
Again, we tend to focus in the finance department
mainly on the dollars, but there's also
a big tie-in in terms of the human resources
and the contract resources to make these things happen.

So we're trying to do a better job in each year
where we forecast to make sure that we may have the money,
but can we actually complete the project?
Do we have the ability to complete that project?
And then, finally, long-range planning.
We'll want to make sure that this ties in.
The last year's mid-term financial plan was the basis,
or it was used in the re-imagined forecasting process
in that financial model.
We'll want to continue to coordinate
with that long-range planning process.
So any changes that occur in this new MTFP
would also be reflected in discussions
regarding re-imagined RTD.
So Mr. Chair, that concludes my presentation.
I'd be happy to answer any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod.
I'll open up the floor for questions and discussion.

Director Dishell first, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: I apologize.
I may have missed it or not been listening closely enough,
but if I remember correctly, our TABOR exemption
burns off here pretty soon.
And I think it may be prudent, especially
as we think outward-facing, to have two different plans
for two different realities.
One for getting that TABOR exemption.
That, if we don't, I think I would
imagine our mid-term financial plan in those last two
to four years is going to look a little different.
I think the earlier we can start forecasting those challenges.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. MacLeod, do you want to comment on that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure.
Thank you.
We will certainly do that.
I like that suggestion.

You may recall in last year's mid-term financial plan,
we had capped the growth in sales and use taxes
on the base system at 1% growth starting in 2025 when the base
system is no longer deep roost.
But I like that suggestion where we show both a deep roost
and then the impact of what would be gained or replaced
if we were to become deep roost again.
So yes, we will definitely include that.
Thank you for the suggestion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell,
for the question, and Mr. MacLeod, for your answer.
That was part of the analysis and the Reimagine
process, correct?
There were scenarios presented with a deep roost and not
deep roost?
I think you're muted.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sorry, I clicked the button, nothing happened.
So yes, you're right.

There were two versions.
So we would take that same approach
with the midterm financial plan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great.
I had just a question I just wanted to point out.
First of all, great work to the financial team here.
I think we've done a really nice job shoring things up.
I think it's fair to say, it's clear
that what's limiting our ability to deliver service right now,
especially as we see reserves above where they need to be,
is definitely less financial and more people power problem.
I just want to clarify.
I know we've been talking about that, but Mr. MacLeod,
do you think that's a fair assessment?
DOUG MACLEOD: Certainly.
Thank you for pointing that out.
Yes, and that was one of the reasons for our
lower expenditures.

So the savings that we had in 2021,
and we're currently experiencing 2022's.
And a good part of that is due to the shortage-the manpower shortage, the people power shortage.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great.
Thanks for commenting on that.
I would point out, I think, as we
consider this mid-term financial plan, it's interesting.
Director Cook brought up earlier the idea
of what would it take to put a circulator in a community?
And I think you mentioned the agility while maintaining
fiscal discipline.
I think we want to be careful of overextending and committing
in the face of potential recessions,
but it also is an opportunity that our reserves
are increasing.
And as we do get better with our budgeting and the variance
being a little bit tighter, I think

there's an opportunity to think about how we approach service.
And ideally, as we address our workforce challenges.
So, anyway, just something for us
all, I think, to bear in mind as an agency
as we look at this mid-term financial plan.
That we're limited more by workforce than we are
finances and have a responsibility
to deliver service to communities.
So lots to think about here in a time of uncertainty.
Any other questions or discussion items
from our Directors?
With that, Mr. MacLeod, thank you for the presentation.
I look forward to receiving the mid-term financial plan
and looking at that more fully.
That is the conclusion of our discussion items this evening.
We will go into other matters.
Do any Directors have other matters
to bring to this committee?

Yes, Treasurer Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
Not a huge other matter.
I just think there are times when we, as a Board,
need to pause and just say, thank you.
Three tremendous presentations this evening.
So, Debra, and your staff, I just
learned a lot even though I'm in my fourth year as a
Board member.
And really hit the high ends of important questions.
And then, thank my fellow Board members
for good input and questions, and great job, Mr. Chair.
That's all I have, just accolades.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Treasurer Whitmore.
Thanks for taking that moment.
I would completely echo the sentiment for staff.
I've got the easy job here.
So thank you very much to everybody.

I completely agree.
There's some substantive things we covered this evening,
and thank you to my colleagues and to everyone on the team
here at RTD for making tonight very productive.
So thank you.
Thank you, sir, for pointing that out.
Director Broom, please?
BOB BROOM: Just to clarify, is the meeting tomorrow
night cancelled?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, that is my understanding
that we do not have a quorum, and that we are
working on an alternative plan.
Did somebody from the Board staff-is someone available to comment on where we currently
stand on that plan?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, this is Barbara McManus.
So the plan right now is that we're
going to schedule a special Board meeting prior

to the Board meeting to address the action and discussion
items that were postponed from tomorrow until the 26th.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you for bringing up
that clarification.
Any other matters?
Well, with that, again, thank you very much, everybody.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom had his hand up.
Director Broom has his hand up, Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
Director Broom?
You're on mute, sir.
Director Broom, did you have any further comments?
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're on mute, Director Broom.
ERIK DAVIDSON: You're on mute.
Director Broom, you're on mute at the moment.
If you have further comment?
Director Broom, if you want to give me a thumbs

down if you have no further comment?
A thumbs up if you had another matter?
We're not able to hear you, Director Broom.
I see your hand is down.
Thank you, Director Cook, for pointing that out.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you very much, everybody.
So with that, just a reminder.
We are taking a purposeful pause during the month of August
from scheduling official meetings of the Board, which
will allow time for the Board and staff to regroup, refocus,
and enhance their efforts for the remainder of the calendar
year of 2022.
As such, the next Finance and Planning Committee
will be held on Tuesday, September 13th, 2022.
I just do want to mention there may
be one small exception to those meetings, which
could be unrelated to this committee, but the ad-hoc

Audit Committee.
So more to come on that, and please follow along.
And apologies to everybody if that does
impact our purposeful pause here.
But the Finance and Planning Committee
will resume in September, and that will
be Tuesday, September 13th.
So thank you very much, everybody.
I'm seeing no further discussion.
The meeting will be adjourned at 7:25 PM Mountain Standard Time.
Thanks, everybody.
Take care.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you
SHELLEY COOK: Bye.
Thanks.
&nbsp;

