Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
REMOTE MEETING
December 15, 2020 at 5:30 PM
855-962-1128
(Press *3 to speak during Public Participation)

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Jeff Becker – Senior Manager of Service Development – 21 years
William Benavidez – Bus Operator – 22 years
Peter S. DeFino – Supervisor – 19 years
Travis Delsanno – Leave Administrator – 17 years
Katherine Duncan – Division Supervisor – 30 years
Narciso Garcia, Jr. – Light Rail Operator – 29 years
Edward Gonzales – Purchasing Agent – 21 years
Sandra A. Grotewohl – Lead Business Analyst – 35 years
Andrew Heitman – Light Rail Operator – 20 years
Kenneth W. Herrera – Light Rail Operator – 20 years
John E. Johnson – Operator Instructor – 21 years
Dave A. Koon – Bus Operator – 20 years
Carlos Osorio – Revenue Technician – 19 years
Priscilla Perea – Budget Analyst II – 30 years
Gregory S. Stone – Light Rail Operator – 29 years
Ya Thao – Bus Operator – 29 years
Vaughn Townsend – Street Supervisor – 28 years
Edward Francis Urbanic – Dispatcher – 25 years

V.

Proclamations
A.

Approval of Proclamation for Claudia Folska

B.

Approval of Proclamation for Judith Lubow

C.

Approval of Proclamation for Natalie Menten

D.

Approval of Proclamation for Ken Mihalik

E.

Approval of Proclamation for Jeff Walker

VI.

Public Participation

VII.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Cook
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Catlin

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 17, 2020

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Lamar Transit Adjusted MAG for 2021

It is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors revise the Minimum Annual Guarantee [MAG] to be received by
RTD from Lamar Transit. Due to impacts of COVID 19, the Committee recommends a net
revised revenue guarantee of $1,085,030.00 for 2021.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Strategic Priority #6: Move RTD Toward Stable Financial Situation
B.

Salaried Employee Trustee Appointments

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Sylvia Francis and
William Weidenaar to a term expiring December 31, 2022 and appoints Bob Broom and
Peggy Catlin from the Board of Directors to a term expiring December 31, 2022 as

Trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried
Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
GM Goals
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
C.

Budget Transfer for Commuter Rail Third Party Services

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve budget transfers totaling $3.122 million from the North Metro
operations budget to the Eagle operations budget for third party reimbursable projects to
allow RTD to compensate Denver Transit Partners (DTP) for costs it will incur for work
associated with third party agreements.
This action addresses two of the General Manager’s goals for 2020:
Mission-Oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
D.

Contributions to the FasTracks Fund Balance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors redirects certain future funding sources (detailed below) from being deposited in
the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) and instead be deposited in the FasTracks
unrestricted reserve for future shortfalls in operations and maintenance costs.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management

XIII.

Recommended Action
E.

CRL Associates Final Option Year

It is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or her designee to enter into an
agreement for Local Government Liaison Services with CRL Associates, Inc. (CRL) to
exercise the second one-year option (January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021) to
extend Contract No. 16-DO-025, at a cost of $94,500. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2021 budget.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #5 –Effective Communications & Community Outreach

F.
Approval of Contract Extension for Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks Program
Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to
Jacobs Engineering for Program Support Consulting Services (PSC) for FasTracks, to
extend the contract completion date from December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021,
with no change to the contract not-to-exceed amount. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2021 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific
projects where PSC support would be utilized.
This Recommended Action supports the following General Manager’s goals:
Mission-oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
2021 Strategic Priority #4: Increase Ridership, Improve Rider Experience

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business
A.

Ad Hoc Committee on Committee Structure Update

XVI. Executive Session
Pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(c), C.R.S., for matters required to be kept confidential by
federal or state law or rules and regulations, and §§ 2-3-103(2) and 2-3-103.7(1), C.R.S.,
regarding confidentiality of audit reports and recommendations, for discussion of draft
audit findings by the Office of the State Auditor related to 2020-2021 Performance Audit;
pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of related personnel matters; and
pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S., for conferences with an attorney for the purpose of
receiving legal advice regarding the same.

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

