1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 15, 2020 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Rivera-Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Bob Broom
Vince Buzek
Peggy Catlin
Shelley Cook

Director, District F
Director, District J
Director, District N
Director, District L

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Claudia Folska
Lynn Guissinger
Shontel Lewis

Director, District E
Director, District O
Director, District B

Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Ken Mihalik
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Doug Tisdale

Director, District G
Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:30 PM

Troy Whitmore
Kate Williams

Director, District K
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 15 Directors present at roll call.
In addition to Directors and senior staff, there were 35 additional participants connected to
the call.

IV.

Retiree Awards
Jeff Becker – Senior Manager of Service Development – 21 years
William Benavidez – Bus Operator – 22 years
Peter S. DeFino – Supervisor – 19 years
Travis Delsanno – Leave Administrator – 17 years
Katherine Duncan – Division Supervisor – 30 years
Narciso Garcia, Jr. – Light Rail Operator – 29 years
Edward Gonzales – Purchasing Agent – 21 years
Sandra A. Grotewohl – Lead Business Analyst – 35 years
Andrew Heitman – Light Rail Operator – 20 years
Kenneth W. Herrera – Light Rail Operator – 20 years
John E. Johnson – Operator Instructor – 21 years
Dave A. Koon – Bus Operator – 20 years
Carlos Osorio – Revenue Technician – 19 years
Priscilla Perea – Budget Analyst II – 30 years
Gregory S. Stone – Light Rail Operator – 29 years
Ya Thao – Bus Operator – 29 years
Vaughn Townsend – Street Supervisor – 28 years
Edward Francis Urbanic – Dispatcher – 25 years

V.

Proclamations
A.

Approval of Proclamation for Claudia Folska

B.

Approval of Proclamation for Judith Lubow

C.

Approval of Proclamation for Natalie Menten

D.

Approval of Proclamation for Ken Mihalik

E.

Approval of Proclamation for Jeff Walker

Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the proclamations approved unanimously by acclamation.
RESULT:
AYES:

ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger, Lewis, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, Williams

VI.

Public Participation
1. Lexanne Leonard

VII.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger

Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Cook
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Catlin

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Presented by Committee Chair Catlin.

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 17, 2020
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to approve
the Board Meeting Minutes of November 17,
2020
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed unanimously by acclamation
with 15 in favor (Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook,
Folska, Guissinger Lewis, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale, Walker,
Whitmore, and Williams) and 0 against.

Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

X.

Chair's Report
Presented by Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

XI.

General Manager's Report
Presented by Debra Johnson, RTD CEO & General Manager.

XII.

Unanimous Consent
Motion to
Amend:

Director Catlin made a motion to remove Item D
for discussion from the unanimous consent
items.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Motion to
Approve the
Amended
Motion:
Director Buzek made the motion to approve the
amended unanimous consent item A through C.
Director Williams seconded the motion.
Vote on
the Amended
Main Motion: The amended unanimous consent items A
through C were approved unanimously by
acclamation.
Motion
to Amend:

Director Catlin made a motion to reinstate and
approve the unanimous consent Item D with the
unanimous consent items.
Director Guissinger seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion to
Amend:

The motion to reinstate and approve Item D
passed unanimously by acclamation.

Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
AYES:

A.

ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger, Lewis, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, Williams

Lamar Transit Adjusted MAG for 2021

It is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors revise the Minimum Annual Guarantee [MAG] to be received by
RTD from Lamar Transit. Due to impacts of COVID 19, the Committee recommends a net
revised revenue guarantee of $1,085,030.00 for 2021.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Strategic Priority #6: Move RTD Toward Stable Financial Situation

B.

Salaried Employee Trustee Appointments

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Sylvia Francis and
William Weidenaar to a term expiring December 31, 2022 and appoints Bob Broom and
Peggy Catlin from the Board of Directors to a term expiring December 31, 2022 as
Trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried
Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
GM Goals
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
C.

Budget Transfer for Commuter Rail Third Party Services

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve budget transfers totaling $3.122 million from the North Metro
operations budget to the Eagle operations budget for third party reimbursable projects to
allow RTD to compensate Denver Transit Partners (DTP) for costs it will incur for work
associated with third party agreements.
This action addresses two of the General Manager’s goals for 2020:
Mission-Oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
D.

Contributions to the FasTracks Fund Balance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors redirects certain future funding sources (detailed below) from being deposited in
the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) and instead be deposited in the FasTracks
unrestricted reserve for future shortfalls in operations and maintenance costs.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management

XIII.

Recommended Action
E.

CRL Associates Final Option Year

It is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or her designee to enter into an
agreement for Local Government Liaison Services with CRL Associates, Inc. (CRL) to
exercise the second one-year option (January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021) to

extend Contract No. 16-DO-025, at a cost of $94,500.
included in the 2021 budget.

Funding for this contract is

This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #5 –Effective Communications & Community Outreach
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to enter into an
agreement for Local Government Liaison
Services with CRL Associates, Inc. (CRL) to
exercise the second one-year option (January 1,
2021 through December 31, 2021) to extend
Contract No. 16-DO-025, at a cost of $94,500.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2021
budget.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Broom,
Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, and
Williams) and 3 against (Lewis, Menten, and
Mihalik).

Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the motion PASSED.
F.
Approval of Contract Extension for Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks Program
Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to
Jacobs Engineering for Program Support Consulting Services (PSC) for FasTracks, to
extend the contract completion date from December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021,
with no change to the contract not-to-exceed amount. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2021 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific
projects where PSC support would be utilized.
This Recommended Action supports the following General Manager’s goals:
Mission-oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
2021 Strategic Priority #4: Increase Ridership, Improve Rider Experience

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
Contract Extension for Jacobs Engineering for
FasTracks Program Support Consulting Services.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed unanimously with 15 in favor
(Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger,
Lewis, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, RiveraMalpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, and
Williams) and 0 against.

Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the motion PASSED.

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business
A.

Ad Hoc Committee on Committee Structure Update
Presented by Committee Chair Guissinger and Committee Vice-Chair Whitmore.

Director Broom, Cook, Folska, Lewis, Lubow, Menten, Tisdale, Walker spoke
Chair Rivera-Malpiede spoke.

XVI. Executive Session
Pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(c), C.R.S., for matters required to be kept confidential by
federal or state law or rules and regulations, and §§ 2-3-103(2) and 2-3-103.7(1), C.R.S.,
regarding confidentiality of audit reports and recommendations, for discussion of draft
audit findings by the Office of the State Auditor related to 2020-2021 Performance Audit;
pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of related personnel matters; and
pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S., for conferences with an attorney for the purpose of
receiving legal advice regarding the same.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to proceed into
executive session.
Director Lewis seconded the motion.

Vote on

the Motion:

The motion passed unanimously with 15 in favor
(Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Guissinger,
Lewis, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, RiveraMalpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore, and
Williams) and 0 against.

Chair Rivera-Malpiede declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
The Board moved into executive session at 9:50
The Board adjourned from Executive Session at 12:35 a.m.

XVII. Adjourn
Chair Rivera-Malpiede adjourned the meeting at 12:36 a.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

