RTD Board Meeting Recording 12-15-20
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening. I will now call to order Tuesday, December 15 RTD Board
meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:32 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask
everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and to set your ringers to silent.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are
being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this time, meetings will be
primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings will be
posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. We can visit RTD-denver.com and scroll to the
bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors.
If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the public participation portion of
tonight's agenda, please press star three now. You will be placed into a queue and I will call on you at the
appropriate time. Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please announce your name and wait for
me to call on you before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the
recording and to the proceedings.
Please note that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on this evening,
I will call on each Director in turn. So please know that your time to speak will come. And if possible,
please hold your comments until that time. This evening, we will dispense with the Pledge of Allegiance,
and I would like to ask Ms. McManus to please call the roll call.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Hello, I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent. We have a quorum. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McManus. This evening, I just want to start off by saying
that one of the many truly rewarding duties of serving on this Board is the recognition of RTD retirees.
Being able to acknowledge the incredible individuals who work here for a significant portion of their
professional careers is both an honor and a privilege.
It's becoming increasingly rare for agencies and companies to be fortunate enough to have such longtenured employees. And RTD is blessed to have such amazing and dedicated people as part of our
family. At this time, I would like to read the names of the employees who have retired since the beginning
of COVID outbreak. And due to COVID, we've been unable to give these amazing individuals the send-off
they truly deserve in our Blake Street boardroom.
But we would like this evening to invite them, each and every one of them, to join us once the Board's inperson meetings resume. My honor to honor the following. Jeff Becker, Senior Manager of Service
Development, 21 years. William Benavidez, Bus Operator, 22 years.
Peter S. DeFino, Supervisor, 19 years. Travis Delsanno, Leave Administrator, 17 years. Katherine
Duncan, Division Supervisor, 30 years. Narcisco Garcia Jr. Light Rail Operator, 29 years. Edward
Gonzalez, Purchasing Agent, 21 years.
Sandra A. Grotewohl, Lead Business Analyst, 35 years. Andrew Heitman, Light Rail Operator, 20 years.
Kenneth W. Herrera, Light Rail Operator, 20 years.
John E. Johnson, Operator Instructor, 21 years. Dave A. Koon, Bus Operator, 20 years. Carlos Osorio,
Revenue Technician, 19 years. Priscilla Perea, Budget Analyst II, 30 years.
Gregory S. Stone, Light Rail Operator, 29 years. Ya Thao, Bus Operator, 29 years. Vaughn Townsend,
Street Supervisor, 28 years. And Edward Francis Urbanic, Dispatcher, 25 years.
Let's give them a round of applause. That's an amazing amount of years. We thank you from the bottom
of our hearts, and we look forward to giving you your plaque when we can come back together.
This evening, Directors and guests, we come to another bittersweet portion of tonight's meeting. Every
two years, we are presented with the opportunity to celebrate the accomplishments of those Directors
who are departing this Board, and to share our collective appreciation for all they have done during their
time here.
This year, we will be recognizing five passionate, dedicated, and honorable public servants who have all
left an indelible mark on this Board and this agency. They are Directors Dr. Claudia Folska, Director Judy
Lubow, Director Natalie Menten, Director Ken Mihalik, and Director Jeff Walker.

I'll be reading a proclamation recognizing each of these Directors, and then I'll ask the returning Directors
to say a few words about each of them. At the end, I'll ask for a consensus vote on all of the
proclamations. We'll start tonight with Director Dr. Claudia Folska.
A proclamation in recognition of the contributions made to the Regional Transportation District, RTD,
2013 through 2020 by Director Dr. Claudia Folska, whereas the constituents of District E elected Director
Claudia Folska to represent them on the RTD's Board of Directors in 2012, and whereas Director Folska
serves faithfully and dutifully on the Board for eight years as an advocate, for providing public transit that
offers safe, clean, reliable, courteous, acceptable, and cost-effective service throughout the district.
And whereas Director Folska was elected by her peers to serve as Secretary. Director Folska served with
distinction on many committees during her tenure, including terms as Chair of the Government Relations
Committee, Vice Chair of the Planning and Development Committee, Vice Chair of Planning, Capital
Programs, and FasTracks Committee, as well as serving on the DRCOG Regional Transportation
Committee, known as the RTC, and E-470 Public Highway Authority board, and as the CDOT liaison, and
whereas Director Folska served on the Board during her time of tremendous growth for RTS, which she
helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term viability and sustainability.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors, that we, the Board of Directors, hereby
commend a courteous commendations to Director Claudia Folska for her many contributions to the Board
over eight years, and recognize her steadfast dedication to RTD and its constituents. Dated on the 15th
day of December, 2020. Signed by myself and Secretary Vince Buzek. I'll now call on the directors in turn
and ask them to share some parting words with Director Folska, starting with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I've had an opportunity to sit next to all of these people that are
going off the Board tonight at our monthly Board meetings. And without exception, they all were thinking
about the best for the district.
I didn't see a lot of people trying to rack up political points with thoughts of going on to bigger and better
things. You see that thing a lot of other boards, and city councils, and that type of thing. So I guess RTD's
different in that manner. We don't have the political ambitions that you normally see unfold. Claudia was a
nice colleague and we're all going to miss her. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. A couple of things that I really appreciate about Claudia
Folska. First, I realize that I was not the only person that used the word groovy, and that really made me
feel good. So there's that.
And secondly, and I think most importantly-- and Claudia, I'm going to paraphrase your words-- but one of
the things she said that really had an impact on me is that you've got a couple different kinds of people
that ride RTD, either you're disabled or you're going to be disabled. And when you think about it, it's really
true.
And whether you break a leg or you do something and you're temporarily disabled, at some point in time
you are going to have your mobility options change on you, and we should always think about providing
services with that in mind. So I thank you, Claudia Folska for that. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Claudia, I will never forget the first time I had the pleasure of
meeting you, and that was at the Board SLT Retreat in 2018, prior to my joining the Board. I was
permitted to attend. And I was struck by your intellect and how well you researched topics.

And that has continued in the nearly three years since I first met you. And it's always impressed me. And
your wealth of knowledge and experience that you brought to this Board has just been invaluable. So I
want to thank you for your dedicated public service and I have enjoyed getting to know you. And I wish
you well in your future endeavors. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Claudia Folska, Director, Dr. I echo some of the prior
comments. I would say that one thing I have really prized in the relationship we have is how you have
broadened my view. I think you've contributed to a broadening of all our views, but I know for certain in
my case, I view things differently now. I daresay opened my eyes to how things are for other people. So
that's one thing I will take with me from our time together. And thank you.
Secondly, I've enjoyed and been challenged by many energetic conversations that we've had on the
phone when particular issues arose. And I've enjoyed hearing, too, about some of your past experiences.
So thanks for all you've done to contribute to toward good transit in our region, and thank you from that
personal standpoint as well. I wish you the very best.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, thank you. Claudia, I would echo some of those things. Claudia, whenever you
talk to her, there's always so much creativity, and energy, and always thinking. And I always appreciated
that.
Claudia comes to things with a marketing mind, which I also appreciate, and a mind for how to keep RTD
part of the community and contributing to the community, whether it's a student poster project or
reorganizing some of our systems. She brings fresh ideas. And I think all of that has been really important
and instrumental, and I appreciate that. Claudia also rode her bike all the way across the country, which
is very impressive.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis. Hmm. OK, I think I'll go to the next person and
come back to you, ma'am. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, good. There's always going to be one with technical problems, at least one on our
Zoom. But anyway, I had no idea that we were going to be doing this dog and pony show, but here goes.
I so enjoyed working with Claudia. Claudia, you're one of the smartest people I've ever met, and I'm an
attorney. Doesn't mean I'm smart, but I've met a lot of smart people.
And you're so dedicated to creative approaches to making things work. You and I work, as you know, for
over a year putting together a proposal with a former Burlington Northern executive to Burlington Northern
to promote a pilot project that they would do with us. Well, it was a great idea, but guess what? They
didn't bite.
Nonetheless, it was just, it was fantastic working together on it. And it would have been a good idea if it
worked. So anyway, thank you for being you, and you're very, very interesting and creative to work with
That's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So if I was to describe Dr. Claudia Folska, the three main things that come to mind
is, first of all very, very smart. And next, passionate. Very passionate.

And the very best part of adding to that combination is fun. And whoever is lucky enough to be in
Claudia's path, part of a work group, or if she joins some private sector, public sector agency, they are
extremely lucky to be able to work with this woman.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: [INTERPOSING VOICES].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: And the word that I was thinking of that Director Menten was also passionate. And a
couple of examples that come to mind are the return to the credit risk premium. There were some of the
photos of her and making the trip to DC. They're the training she was doing with-- [AUDIO OUT] training
of life skills for some of the Girl Scout troops, teaching them what it was like to really walk in very different
shoes as they experienced navigating the city in transit as a woman that was visually disabled.
And that was, I think, was a testament to her wanting to really teach others, help others. And she's done
that for me. I'm a richer person for having known her. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I first met Claudia Folska in 2012 while I was the
Mayor of Cherry Hills Village, and she was running for her first term of office on the RTD Board. It was at
a Greenwood Village event, and Greenwood Village Mayor Ron Rakowsky told me that I really needed to
watch her.
Well, little did I know that I would end up not only watching her as she won her first term on the Board, but
then campaigning alongside her when she was running for her second term, and then have the thrill of
working with her for the last four years. If I had to choose one word to describe Claudia, that word would
be vision.
I assure you that there are few people who enjoy sight who have the same quality and clarity of vision as
does Dr. Claudia Folska. Claudia, it's been an honor and I'm glad to be here to say farewell to you. And I
know you will fare well. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I met Claudia Folska back in early 2012, I believe. Very late 2011, not long
after I got seated she and a business partner came to me with an idea. So I've had a long history with her.
And then, when I actually ran for the seat, she was running, also. We got to make a couple of joint
appearances work. As has been said before, passion is definitely the word that describes her.
She's also extremely devoted to her front burner causes, those ones that really drive her. Just engaging
the youth and also broadening experiences for everybody in terms of mobility and how the physical
environment, the built environment affects people-- everybody. And that it should always be-- we should
always strive to provide the best mobility for those who have the least mobility.
That's my takeaway from knowing her. So it's been great knowing her, always been interesting, never a
dull moment. Hope to come across your path again. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, Jeff, never a dull moment. And I certainly have
relished that in the short two years that I've had to serve with Dr. Folska, I guess the term that comes to
my mind-- and many have been used that I perhaps would repeat-- but as far as my relationship over the
past 24 to 26 months, the term of enlightenment comes to mind.

I have so appreciated learning new perspectives, and broadening my horizons, and understanding more
the role of our service for all of our riders through all spectrums of our society. Claudia has brought some
great education to me in that regard. And I appreciate the passion that she brings to those causes and
certainly with youth, and other organizations, and other folks as well.
And she has a lot of fun. We've had some good laughs, and I'll certainly miss that. But well done, servant,
and I do appreciate what you've done for me as a person, more importantly than even a Board member.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sometimes it's hard to go last. It's like everybody's always said all the things that I
think. But Doctor, Doctor, I find it interesting that everybody remembers when they first met you.
I remember that as well. You were speaking in Douglas County and I was desperately impressed with
your history, and with your persona, and with all of the things that you have done with your life, continually
regardless of any obstacles. So we will miss your input on the RTD Board of Directors, but I hope that you
will still be available to give it to me in our work in the disability community. So sayonara, Claudia.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I'm guessing Director Lewis is having a difficult time getting on. So let
me just say to you, Dr. Folska, that you are an amazing leader and you are enlightened. I'm overwhelmed
by the descriptives that everybody has about you.
What I remember most about you is that you have two doctorates, that you teach us humbleness in the
face of our own ability to navigate, and that you received the first Rosa Parks Award by the Transit
Alliance because of your commitment to community and just how amazing of a human being you are, and
the commitment and, really, just the richness you have given to all of us. I'm going to ask Ms. McManus if
she's like to say something as well. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi, this is Barbara McManus [ECHO].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [BACKGROUND NOISE] Barbara McManus [LAUGHTER] Two Items.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Is that better?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Much. Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, sorry. So a lot of the Directors spoke about Director Folska's innovation, and
forward thinking, and creativity. So the one thing that no one spoke about that really resonates for me
was the Youth Art Program. Director Folska-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska initiated this. She has always been a proponent of teach the
younger folks to use mass transit. Start young. And I've always admired her for that.
We had a pilot program most of you probably don't remember, and some of the Directors right now were
not involved because it was pretty early on when Director Folska was on the Board. But it was a number
of schools in Aurora, they did art. They were they were requested to do art based around transit.
And we did a full program, we did bus wraps. There were a number of winners to the art program. Those
winning photos are hanging up in the Board Office. Unfortunately, it was a program that RTD did not have
the financial backing to move forward with as an ongoing project once the pilot was brought forward.

But I did want to give Director Folska kudos. We had great fun during that pilot. We engaged a lot of the
younger people. And I think it was very, very successful. And I think it's the campaign that once we get
our footing back at RTD, that we can revisit in the name of Director Folska for getting youth into using
mass transit. So I would have been remiss in not bringing that forward for her. So thank you, Director
Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McManus. Next, you know what? We have another Director
that we need to recognize. And it's a proclamation for Director Judy Lubow.
In recognition of the contributions made to the Regional Transportation District, RTD, from 2013 to 2020
from Director Judy Lubow, whereas the constituents of District I elected Judy Lubow to represent them on
the Board of Directors in 2012, and whereas Director Lubow served faithfully and dutifully on the Board
for eight years as an advocate for providing public transit that offers safe, clean, reliable, courteous,
accessible, and cost-effective service throughout the district, and whereas Director Lubow served with
distinction as Treasurer of the Board.
In addition, Director Lubow out served on many committees during her tenure, including terms as the
Chair of the Planning and Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee, Chair of the Operations and
Customer Service Committee, Vice Chair of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee, as well as
serving on the Northwest Parkway Public Highway Authority Board, RTD Salaried Employee Pension
Trustee, RTD Civil Rights Committee, and whereas Director Lubow served on the Board during the time
of tremendous growth for RTD, during which she helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term
viability and sustainability. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the
Board of Directors, hereby extend our heartiest commendations to Director Judy Lubow for her many
contributions to this Board over the last eight years, and recognize her steadfast dedication to the RTD
Board and its constituents, dated this 15th of December, 2020, signed by myself as Chair and Secretary
Vince Buzek. I will now call on the Directors in turn, starting this time with Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. It's nice not to be at the end. Director Lubow-- another person I remember the first
time we met-- we did campaign together four years ago and had some good times and some interesting
discussions. And we have had some since.
I have a lot of respect for your viewpoint on issues, which sometimes is different than mine, but is always
good to hear. So again, I'll miss you. I don't know what it's like to be at RTD without all you guys that are
leaving. So thanks, Judy, and stay in touch.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Judy, Judy, how I'm going to miss you. When I was talking to Eric, who
will be taking your place, I said there's a ground rule on filling that spot. Judy always laughed at my stupid
jokes and my crazy puns, and I always appreciated that.
And man, I'll miss your sense of humor and that laughter that we hear from time-to-time when we have a
technical foible or something of that nature. Just kind of keeps us grounded. Man, you've done such a
great job in representing your constituents, and really an area where there's so much consternation
towards the agency. And we all understand that and we understand why you've been admirable in your
diligence to those folks to see projects through.
It's been a pleasure to serve on the FasTracks Committee beside you as Vice Chair. I don't even know if
it was two years or one year, but I think both years of the time together. And I admired your technique and
how you interact with the staff on that committee, especially Bill Van Meter and Henry Stoppelcamp.

Those have been always fun but very fruitful meetings and educational. You're a good leader and been a
great example, and I'm certainly going to miss you. Keep laughing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I've known Judy since she got here. The one word that I will use to describe
her is tenacious. She is a fierce advocate for her constituents up in that northern part of the district.
I'm glad I get to sit on her side of the table. As much as I can hold a grudge, I've never been upset with
her. Disagreed, sure. I disagree with everybody.
But some people I hold a grudge against, but I cannot be upset with Judy because she's never said
anything that I thought was out of line. So it's been a pleasure working with you, Judy. I'm going to miss
your smile, your quick smile, your quick laugh, your cheerful outlook and disposition. That's good stuff
right there.
So take care of yourself. Hope to see you around. And hope to hear about the good news on good things
you're doing. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Judy Lubow, the singular thing that stands out in
my mind is that she has always been singularly focused. She has been an incredible advocate for all of
the people in the North Metro Region relative to service for them.
I remember working with her very hard for months putting together the FasTracks resolution that this
Board adopted two years ago and that rededicated ourselves to the completion of the full FasTracks
network. She did a fabulous job and demonstrated collaboration beyond, I think, anyone's wildest
expectations. And so I can say, if you're looking for the model of a good Director, then just look at Judy
Lubow. [NON-ENGLISH] Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Hi, Judy, I'm going to miss you. It's hard to imagine that the
northern communities would have a more dedicated advocate. And so many meetings and so many
budgets that said certain projects just weren't feasible or weren't even realistic in the short-term, you
always had a persistence to seek out other things that hadn't been even conceived of yet. And so I've
always admired your tenacity and your dedication to your constituents.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, the first thing about Judy is I like how she has come up with nicknames for me
over the years. And my favorite one that she came up with is Natalie. And she knows the reference. But
I'll agree with the rest in that what is most notable about Director Judy Lubow is compassion and very,
very, very driven to represent that District I, that thin, long, tall district could always count on Judy during
our conversations to be representing that area and what we've brought forward to them, all the way back
to 2004.
So here we go, Judy. Thank you for all those nicknames. I won't go into all the others, like the Clara
Barton, really, and the variety of other ones. But thank you. Those are fond memories.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, are you able to speak? I'm going to go ahead and go to
Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Judy. Judy is my compadre up here in the Northwest Territory, and I
have so enjoyed working with you.

I think the description I'm hearing-- fierce advocate, dedicated, persistent, tenacious-- you represent your
constituents so well. But I would add a different sort of word. I think Judy is one of the kindest people I've
ever met.
She's not an early morning person. And if I called her, I also had to wait while she said, what is it? Three
dogs, four cats, all the squirrels, all the birds, and then came back to the phone call to talk at that point.
But she never had a bad word to say about anybody, and she just-- even when we're looking at a difficult
problem, she took a very kind and thoughtful approach.
And I also think that Judy-- I also have appreciated her leadership skills. I remember the first retreat we
had, the first Board retreat. There was something we were doing that people weren't really too excited
about doing, and Judy spoke up and said, let's do this a different way. And I think she's been able to ask
important questions all along the way in so many things.
And I'll miss your laugh, too. I'll try to laugh at Troy's jokes for you. But I'll miss you, and let's stay in
touch, OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. What a pleasure it is and an honor that I get to speak
about my colleague, Judy Lubow. And one of the first times I met her was sitting in the audience prior to
being elected and then after we were elected-- or maybe it was after re-elected-- and she said her name
is Judy Lubow, like bow-wow, bow-wow.
And little did I know that that was sort of foreshadowing all the great things I would learn about Judy in the
coming years of her love and dedication to animals. Really, just like Director Guissinger said, these
animals are very, very important to her, even the prairie dogs that we have to move around from time-totime. And again like Director Guissinger said, quite right, Judy is one of the kindest people you will ever
have the pleasure of knowing, and I have that pleasure.
And I am personally friends with Judy, so I don't have to say bon voyage. I do love being a co-conspirator
with her, particularly on the Northwest Rail. I mean, if there's anything that Judy was elected to do-- and
she was damn determined to do it-- is get that Northwest Rail finished, or at least shovel-ready or in the
ground. To the proposal that we made to Matt Rose, the CEO or Chairman of the Board of Burlington
Northern, I would say it isn't a gone, foregone kind of thing. It's a seed that was planted and it needs to
continually be watered.
And I would encourage the Board to continue in that effort, along with our new General Manager
Johnson. I know that it can be done. It's innovative, it's creative, and you all need a train, and I want to
ride it. So anyway, Judy, love knowing you, and I'm going to enjoy continuing to know you. And thank you
for your service to your constituents, to your colleagues on the Board, and to the RTD Staff, every single
one of them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Before we go on, I would just like to remind the
public that if anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the public participation
portion of tonight's agenda, please press star three now and you will be placed in the queue and I will call
on you at the appropriate time. Thank you.
Next, we have Director Natalie Menten. Proclamation in recognition of the contributions made by the
Regional Transportation District, RTD, 2013 to 2020. Director Natalie Menten, whereas the constituents
of District M's elected Director Natalie Menten to represent them on the RTD Board of Directors in 2012,
and whereas Director Menten served faithfully and dutifully be on the Board for eight years as an

advocate for providing public transit that offers safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and costeffective service throughout the district, and whereas Director Menten was elected by her peers to serve
as First Vice Chair, Second Vice Chair, and Treasurer, Director Menten served with distinction on many
committees during her tenure, including turns as Chair and Vice Chair of the Finance Administration and
Audit Committee, and the Vice Chair of the Planning and Development Committee, as well as serving on
the GM Oversight Performance Management Committee, the Jefferson County Transportation Advisory
Group, DRCOG's Regional Transportation Committee, the RTC, and Jefferson County Parkway Public
Highway Authority Board, and the CDOT liaison.
And whereas Director Menten served on the Board during a time of tremendous growth for RTD, during
which she helped guide the organization to ensure its long term viability and sustainability. Now,
therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby extend our
heartiest commendations to Director Natalie Menten for her many contributions to the Board over her last
eight years, and recognize her steadfast dedication to RTD and constituents. Dated the 15th day of
December, 2020, signed by myself as Chair and Secretary Vince Buzek. We are going to start now with
comments from Director-NATALIE MENTEN: Chair? Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I would actually rather not go-- thank you very much
for the resolution. I appreciate it very much. But I would actually rather not put the pressure on fellow
Directors to make parting comments.
To be very frank, when I got on this Board my job is to agitate. It was to ask a difficult and uncomfortable
questions and rock the boat. And I feel I did do my duty. And with that, I am sure there have been a few
Board Directors over time that have felt a little irritated, perhaps.
I would really rather not put them into a pressure point. I know we have all served and done our duty and
there are good thoughts. But I would rather not have that pressure point. Would you mind?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, not at all. Thank you, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what? But what I would like to do, if I might, is go back. And I
know we started with Director Lubow, and I was so busy thinking about having the public call in, let me go
back in and have people talk about Director Lubow. So if I might start with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think Director Walker put his finger right on what I thought
about, and that is being tenacious. Judy never gives up on an issue that she's passionate about, and
that's how you get things done. Particularly things that take sometimes 20, 30 years to get done.
If you don't stay with it, it won't get done. And you see water projects all over the state of Colorado that
finally get done, and it's because people are tenacious and they stick with it. And that's going to be the
same thing about FasTracks. It's going to get done because there's a lot of tenacious Board members
who are going to make the district live up to its obligations and finish lines that were promised to the
taxpayers. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I remember the first time I met Judy Lubow. And I think it was at
a-- if I'm correct-- a candidate forum the first time Judy ran at the North Glen Rec Center. And my wife
drug me to this candidate forum saying, you've got to come to this. You've got to meet this woman
because she's really going to be great for RTD.

And of course, that woman turned out to be Judy Lubow. I was impressed with her. She was soft-spoken,
but well-spoken, and you listened to what she said. And she brought that to the Board with her. And she's
been a zealous advocate for the Northwest and a successful advocate as well, and will certainly be
something that we'll miss. [AUDIO OUT] to do great [AUDIO OUT]. So thanks, Judy.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Judy, there have been so many adjectives to describe you,
but what had come to my mind was kindness and compassion in everything you do. Regardless of how
difficult an issue is, you treat everybody with respect and grace.
The other thing that came to mind was your tenacity and your willingness to stick with an issue in order to
get it done. But I want to thank you for your service as well. And it's been a pleasure getting to know you.
Thank you, Judy.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So Judy, I echo much of what people have said. I'd describe you as
heartfelt, thoughtful, and articulate as an advocate. But what I would say is that you have been, clearly, a
passionate and persistent advocate for your district, but your advocacy has gone beyond that.
You've been concerned, deeply worried about the agency's future, for finances, about making sure that
we are committed to our employees in the way that we need to be. So I just wanted to make that
particular point, because you are well-known for your advocacy in the North area. What I came to realize
about you is that your passion and commitment extends well beyond that. So that was one thing.
I will, in particular, miss you, because as you know, I sort of became-- I think of the two of us as coscribes, because we cooperated in writing a number of things over the past 18 months in particular.
Processes, and retreat printouts, and initiated Board items, and things like that. And so I will miss you
dearly, and I wish you the very best, and hope we can keep in touch. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is Director Lewis able to speak?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I can. Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I'm sorry. I've been on. I don't know why you all aren't able to hear me. So
I thought maybe you all heard the words that I said to Director Folska. If I could take a moment and just
[AUDIO OUT] for Director Folska.
I really appreciate your bringing the people first language as well as really bringing attention to our
communities with disabilities and all of your advocacy. I would share the same sentiments that many folks
have shared about Director Lubow, her just being one of the kindest people I've ever encountered
[INTERPOSING VOICES] working with. I'm sorry, one of the kindest people that I've ever had the
pleasure of working with.
And for you, Director Menten, I know you don't want folks to say anything, but I have really appreciated
your advocacy. I really appreciate it. But you and I don't always agree around the issues but when we do
find commonalities and we figure out ways to work with one another, and so I do appreciate that. I'm
[INAUDIBLE] for now and let you finish [INAUDIBLE].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Judy, I just want to say that the one thing that I
so admire about you is the stillness of your leadership. You don't have to say a lot. Your actions really
convey your commitment and your ability to connect at all levels-- spiritually, with the earth, and it's

always for the good of the whole. And I will never forget that about you. And I want to thank you. It's been
an honor to work with you. All right, onward. Next, we're going to honor Director Ken Mihalik.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: Can I say something? I mean, is it possible for those of us that want to say something
nice to Natalie, be able to?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, please. Please, Director Lubow, please.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. And I also want to thank everyone for the very, very kind, lovely words that they
said to me. It's very sweet and I'm very touched. Thank you.
But I wanted to speak about Natalie because I think she's a unique person in a good way. She has
supreme self-confidence, at least that's what it seems like. And I sat next to her for years.
If she thinks what she's doing is right-- and she always thinks what she's doing is right-- then no matter
what, no matter who is against her, she's going to take on the world by herself and not back down. And to
me, that's astounding. I watch in wonder behind all my insecurities at someone who can have such
glorious certainty.
And she's also one of the best workers I've seen on the Board. Just work, work, work like a busy little bee.
So it's been a privilege to work with you, Natalie. Hope to continue being friends. Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And Madam Chair, this is Director Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I did have to step away briefly because yet again I have another plumbing problem.
[LAUGHS] But I just want to say something-- it's plaguing my life. Natalie Menten has been a thrill to work
with. And she comes at every issue with deep sincerity and a deep knowledge. And if she doesn't know,
she knows how to know.
I think that's really-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me-- critical. When I think about her, she knows how to
know and she's relentless. And frankly, it's been a pleasure serving with her. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Anyone else?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
TROY WHITMORE: I just want to say a few words to Natalie-- I don't feel pressure to do so, but I
appreciate your gesture. And I think my first interaction with Natalie was a phone call when I was
campaigning. And she asked me a couple of general questions, then asked my interpretation or
understanding of TABOR. And I think I muddled through that process.
I don't know what her thoughts were about my answer, but I knew right then and there that she was the
real deal and was going to be, if not the number one steward of the Board, but at least in the top three,
and she certainly has been. And her delivery and her way of doing things is not always in line with most of
the rest of us, but that's OK. I understand, we've learned from it, and as far as a representative for
constituents, and all constituents, there's none greater than Natalie Menten.
And I know there's a big heart in there for our employees. One Board meeting she was fixing a button, I
believe, on her coat when we were about ready to leave on a cool night, and I started making up names
for her seamstress company. I don't know if she remembers this. So I think Judy was on one side of her
and I was on the other.
But I had something like Mending Menten, or Knitting Menten, or something of that nature. Behold and
behold, pandemic hits, PPE is nowhere to be found, and Natalie and her family stepped up and made

hundreds of masks for our employees to get us over the hump to begin with. And I always thought very
highly of that gesture. And I appreciated serving with Natalie. I learned a lot from her. So thanks, Natalie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Director Whitmore stole my thunder a little bit. I always
say that actions speak louder than words. And when Director Menten took on the task of sewing masks, it
was just really a demonstration of her dedication.
And the other thing I would like to say is that Natalie has been very, very consistent and very, very
principled in the way she conducts her business at RTD, and I greatly respect and admire that. And
although I didn't always agree on some of the issues, I always respected her point of view. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Great. Yeah, so Natalie, you ain't getting off that easy. Years ago, I put something on
Craigslist. I had some yard material-- I don't know what they were-- stuff to get away. Get a phone call
and think, that voice sounds kind of familiar. And I don't remember if I recognized it then or when you
pulled up, but it was Director Menten and I said, good, she's as frugal as I am. I like that.
So just like everybody, I disagree on Northeast Ohio, that's what we do. That's how we show friendship
and respect to people. We disagree and we argue. So yeah, just like everybody else disagreed with her.
But just like Director Catlin said, I always, always, always knew where you were coming from. There was
never anything out of left field about anything you said. Director Menten, always willing to listen to an
opposing viewpoint. And I wish I had more of that drive that Director Menten has displayed over the
years. I always appreciated your comments, and I look forward to the next phase to see what you're going
to be doing after this. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And Director Menten, I would just like to say to you that when
we were going through this whole COVID component and there you were sewing masks on channel four,
and seven, and nine, what really came through is your commitment to support our employees and our
community. And having your parents there with you and really igniting a movement-- you had Board
members making masks with you, so you have always known how to get people to think, and to think
deeply, and to act.
But I think one of my favorite memories I'm going to take working with you is I've always respected the
way that you work, and the thought processes you have, and your commitment to doing your homework,
my goodness. But watching you at the opening of the line with your dog, Walter-- I think that was your
dog's name-- was the coolest thing I ever saw. He was just such a great asset to the day, and I just want
to thank you for that. So good luck. I'm sure that our paths will cross again and I wish you well.
OK. Next, we will honor Director Ken Mihalik. The proclamation in recognition of the contributions made to
the Regional Transportation District, RTS, from 2017 to 2020 by Director Ken Mihalik, whereas the
constituents of District G elected Director Ken Mihalik to represent them on the RTD Board of Directors in
2016, and whereas Director Mihalik faithfully and dutifully on the Board for four years as an advocate
through providing public transit that offers safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and cost-effective
service throughout the district.
And whereas Director Mihalik served with distinction on many committees during his tenure, including
turns as the Chair and Vice Chair of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee, the Vice Chair of
the Civil Rights Committee, as well as serving on GM Oversight and Performance Management
Committee, RTD's Salaried Employees Pension Trustees, E-470 Public Highway Authority Board, and C-

470 Corridor Coalition, and whereas Director Mihalik served on the Board during a time of tremendous
growth for RTD, during which he helped guide the organization to ensure long-term viability and
sustainability. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD the Board of Directors that we, the Board of
Directors, hereby extend our heartiest commendations to Director Ken Mihalik for his many contributions
to this Board over his four years, and recognizes that dedication to the RTD and its constituents, dated
the 15th day of December, 2020, signed by myself as Chair and Secretary Vince Buzek. With that-KEN MIHALIK: Director Mihalik.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes? Please.
KEN MIHALIK: I really appreciate the proclamation. It's very kind. And while I'm sure there's no shortage
of accolades to be said about me, I will, in the same spirit as Director Menten-- though it may be a little
different spirit-- I would just reserve that time that might be spent on public comment or some other news.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Point taken. Thank you, Director Mihalik. And you get a flag, too.
Remember that. OK, so now, last but not least, Director Jeff Walker.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm sorry-- this is Judy again. I have a very short one. So Ken, don't be angry with me.
Can I say just a really short thing in goodbye?
KEN MIHALIK: I would never be angry with you.
[LAUGHTER]
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, OK. Cool. Well, when I was thinking of the words that I think about you, it's quiet
dignity and great decency. And it's just been a privilege getting to know you and working with you. So
thank you. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Director Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I do. Thank you. Sorry, Ken. You can be mad at me if you want. That's fine. But a
man of few words, but a lot of deep thought.
When I think of you, I think of still water runs deep. And speaking of water, I got to say this guy, Director
Mihalik is such a cool customer that he can swim with sharks, and he does. And I think that's one of the
coolest things. So I think everyone should know that about him. That's all. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah, also, Ken, you're not getting out of this like that. I miss riding the E-train
back with you after our meetings on Tuesday nights. I really miss talking with you, probably more talking
to you than talking with you. You're a keeper of the public trust and of bees. Take care of yourself and
looking forward to hearing about you. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Ken, I apologize for intruding on your time and your
personal space, but I want to thank you for really mentoring me in the first couple of months I was on this
Board. And you would always provide me with great counsel. And the term still waters run deep is really
apropos and I just wanted to thank you for your service.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Catlin. I would absolutely agree with that, still waters
run deep. Thank you for your service, Director Mihalik. OK, and last but not least, we have Director Jeff
Walker.

The proclamation in recognition of the contributions made to the Regional Transportation District, RTD,
2011 to 2020 by Director Jeff Walker is, whereas Jeff Walker was initially appointed to the Board in 2011
and was subsequently elected by his constituents of District E to represent them on the RTD Board of
Directors in 2012, and whereas Director Walker served faithfully and dutifully on the Board for 10 years as
an advocate for providing public transit that offers safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and costeffective service throughout the district, and whereas Director Walker was elected by his peers to serve
one term as Treasurer, three terms as Secretary, Director Walker served with distinction on many
committees during his tenure, including terms as Chair of the Finance Administration and Audit
Committee, Chair and Vice Chair of Government Relations Committee, Chair of the GM Oversight and
Performance Management Committee.
He also served as a member of the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee Civil Rights
Committee, and DRCOG Regional Transportation Committee, RTC, a CDOT liaison and a member of the
APTA Board. Whereas Director Walker served on the Board during a time of tremendous growth for RTD,
during which he helped guide the organization to ensure its long-term viability and sustainability. Now,
therefore be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby extend our
heartiest commendations to Director Jeff Walker for his many contributions to this Board over the 10
years and recognizes steadfast dedication to RTD and its constituents, dated this 15th day of December,
2020, signed by myself as Chair and Secretary Vince Buzek. I'm going to start with you, Director Broom.
Any comment?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Term limits have both good features and bad features. On the
one hand, when people go off and you bring new people on, you're getting new blood into the system. But
the downside is that you lose institutional knowledge, and that's one of the things that I look to when I talk
with him is his experience with RTD in particular issues. And we're all going to miss that, as well as
missing a really fine gentlemen. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, [AUDIO OUT]. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. When I think about Jeff Walker, I appreciate his measured and
thoughtful comments at our meetings. He wasn't the kind that would just talk nonstop because he wanted
to hear himself talk. It was always something that was important to him.
And we agreed most of the time on things, but when we disagreed, what I also appreciated was I knew
where he was coming from and I knew why. And I think that's really important and something I really
appreciated. Good luck, Jeff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director, or First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I concur with both Directors Broom and Buzek, but I wanted to add
one more personal element for me, and that is, thank you for your friendship. We had a number of long
conversations over the last couple of years. Very thoughtful, very, very helpful, and I learned a lot, and
appreciated our friendship. And I hope some of those conversations will continue, even though you're
going to be off the Board. Thank you, Jeff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, Jeff, I'd echo the same, and always appreciated that you would add a different
point of view, often background that we didn't have, we, who were relatively new, and to state a difference
of opinion, but to do it respectfully, and that we were always prepared, always, as Director Buzek said,
measured and thoughtful. And then, one special piece that I've noted and think will miss is the focus

you've have had on land use and the importance of that connection between land use and transportation.
So I hope you'll stay in touch with us all and wish you the very best.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Jeff Walker, it has been a pleasure serving with you. And
it was so great to campaign with you way back in 2012. But really, one of the things I think about-- I agree
with everyone thus far, and I'm sure with everyone after me what they're going to say about you. And you
are measured, you're very thoughtful, you spend a lot of time, you care deeply about the work that you
do, the folks you represent, the agency, the employees. And that's really wonderful.
But what I found to be most striking is that you did all of that and your job, job, and your work on ATPA on
the Executive Board during the midst of some very difficult personal challenges. And there you were, still
handling it. I doubt that-- well, I know I wouldn't be able to do that and work through those things. And you
did it with grace and ease.
And you were always present. And that was what was really incredible, that with all those personal things
going on in your life, that you could remain present in the moment with RTD and what was at hand. And I
thank you for your service.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Treasurer Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. No, I agree. I think that Jeff, you've just shown a great commitment to
RTD, and to the Staff, and all the great work we get from them. And I've always appreciated all of that,
and the history you bring and share with us, and sticking with it through some tough times, like Claudia
said.
I'd like to know the story of the cowboy hat dancing, and the dancing in theses pictures. That's a side I
haven't seen yet in RTD. And I appreciate your offer to stick around, to keep talking to us as we need it,
and I hope we can stay in touch. Thanks.
Let me just say, also, that-- I'll stick in just a quick sentence-- I always appreciated Natalie, the rigor that
she brought in questioning, and research, and all of those things. And thanks to you, Ken, for bringing me
along as we were next door neighbors sitting in the boardroom and helping me learn the ropes.
Appreciate it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi, yes, can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Why can't I see these? Great. OK, wonderful. Thank you. I actually wanted to add to
Director Mihalik, I've had a really great time serving with him.
He's always fair and balanced and willing to hear and learn other perspectives, and I appreciate that. For
Director Walker, he has been such an incredible human to me. Although he and I stand on different sides
of issues, pretty often he is always willing to have a conversation, be open to learning, be open to
teaching, he's open to mentorship. I've learned quite a bit from him and he knows that I will stay in contact
with him so that he can continue what we've started here. So thank you so much, Jeff, for your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I just want to say that, my Lord, I will miss all of you guys, the ones that
are staying and the ones that are leaving. It's been a pleasure and a privilege working with you, and that
includes Director Walker. We have sometimes disagreed.

I feel like I'm typically more of a rabble rouser and Jeff is much more dedicated to protecting continuity
and stability. But in spite of the disagreements, I have really learned to appreciate where you're coming
from and very much appreciate that your opinions are always sincerely thought-out and expressed.
I also, I'm very impressed by the work that you do, volunteer work at APTA that really pushes along your
skills as a Transit Board member. And I think it shows a lot of your personal determination. So I will miss
you and good luck. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: So Jeff Walker, I would have to say, first of all, also with those packets, and for the
public, maybe they glance at the agenda, maybe they dig through the facts a little bit, but hundreds of
pages at times, and you can always count that Jeff will be going through the entire document over all the
years, which I think is more-- I didn't quite hear, but I think he was appointed in, maybe, 2011. So he's
even done more than the eight years that some of us have done.
And dedication-- I've really got to say after all of these years, his regular ridership day-to-day because he
lives close to a heavily-used route, works close to a heavily-used area, his consistency with being able to
provide that day-to-day ridership has been very helpful over the years. And so I'll leave it at that. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I know Jeff's been there probably the longest serving Director.
And I know that because I run into people, and once they find out that I was working at RTD they would-and this happened lots of times-- say, oh, you must know Jeff Walker, then. Yeah, I do.
He's a great guy. But that happened on quite a few occasions. And so I am happy that I got to work with
him, and I know him, and learned a lot from him. I certainly wish him the best going forward. I don't know
what he's going to do now, but he doesn't have this on Tuesday night, and like Director Menten said, all
the packet reading and all that. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Director Walker truly is a gentle man. And he also
has inexhaustible patience, I have to tell you. I have personally been the beneficiary of that patience in
times past. I am proud that I could serve with him over these past four years, and I especially appreciate
the time that he took to serve as a mentor for me at APTA, introducing me to everyone in APTA and
encouraging me to become very involved in the affairs of APTA. So that was a huge favor and I greatly
appreciate.
And Directors Menten and Mihalik aren't going to get off without some comment. Menten, the champion of
stewardship, what can I say? Incredible. And Mihalik, a patient man who was an anchor in troubled
waters to all of us. And I think the reason that I was seated at the end of the table in my first year next to
Ken, was that everybody understood that Ken could be a good buffer. And that was a good idea. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I really regret that COVID has cheated us out of our oneon-one and multiple in-person meetings, and especially with Director Walker. His dedication is remarkable
to this agency.

And I got to tell you, he's going to work up until the clock strikes midnight on whatever day is the official
day-- maybe it's the end of the year. But he was assisting me yesterday through his connections with
APTA.
And unfortunately, I've not had too much time with that organization. One meeting that I attended with a
number of Directors, including Director Walker, and I got to tell you, when he hits the floor at APTA, he's
like one of Director Mihalik's bees. I'll tell you, he is everywhere, and has made so many connections, and
is so instrumental in introducing me and others to people of importance or people of relevance to RTD.
And I really appreciated seeing that side of Jeff. And if Jeff didn't know somebody from APTA, then
Director Tisdale did. And those two serve us well on that very important organization. Jeff and I are utility
guys, so we have a little bit in common. And I'll miss those conversations as well.
He's been a good mentor and man. Lately, he's been very helpful on a number of occasions when I
needed to call on his wisdom and his vast knowledge of this agency. Very compassionate and appreciate
all the accolades that everybody else has mentioned regarding Jeff. He's got so much to offer after his
[AUDIO OUT] tenure is over, and we just need to keep him in the loop because there is wisdom there that
we can use. So thanks, Jeff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams. Director Williams, you're muted.
KATE WILLIAMS: You guys got to take it when you can get it. What I was saying was that I think that
Director Walker has dedicated a big piece of his life to RTD, and he's been a wellspring of information
and history. He's made me think, he's made me mad-- I'm sure he remembers-- but I have never doubted
for a moment his dedication to his position on the RTD Board, and I think that we will be left without him.
Bye, Jeff. I'll see ya.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker, I'd be remiss if I didn't just say thank you to
you. You and I share being single parents. And we share the trials and tribulations of getting girls ready to
get to school on time.
I have always been extraordinarily touched by your commitment to your children and to this community.
And running into you walking downtown, every time, it is an exchange of grace and depth. And it is a rare
quality to find someone who has that kind of spirit to them.
So I would just like to say good luck. Blessings to you and your family. And we will be calling you to
volunteer on a lot of things, so don't think you'll be gone so long. Thank you.
OK. At this time, I would like to take a vote on all of the proclamations at once. Are there any objections to
proceeding in this manner?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hearing none. Yes?
DOUG TISDALE: I was just wondering if any of the departing directors would have a right of reply.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If we could do the proclamations and then ask them to speak, I think that
might be a good way to end this component, piece of it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon? OK. So hearing no objection, is there any opposition from the
Board on the adoption of the proclamation's for Director Folska, Director Lubow, Director Menten, Director
Mihalik, and Director Walker?
KATE WILLIAMS: No.

NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, hearing none, the proclamations are adopted. Departing Directors,
a little surprise for you all-- a flag for each of you has been flown over the Colorado State Capitol today in
honor of your service and sacrifice. And you will be receiving those from the Board Office. And I
personally want to thank you all once again for the 38 collective years of guidance, government,
mentorship, blood, sweat, and tears that you've all poured into this Board, and to this agency.
It's been a joy, a privilege, and a blessing to work alongside each of you, and you will be missed. So with
that, any parting words? Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Well, I'd like to just say I love my RTD, I absolutely love it.
And my life depends on it. And it's been enriched because of it.
And I personally have been enriched by being a part of this organization. And it has been such a privilege
and an honor to represent the constituents of District E. And for all my colleagues, thank you for teaching
me. I'm a better person for knowing you. And God bless you, and I hope things get better real soon.
[LAUGHS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just want to say that I'm very, very touched by the outpouring of kind
thoughts and well wishes from all of you, and I will miss you all terribly. And I don't think it's been only
eight years. It sometimes feels like 558 million years.
But I will miss that, too. Yeah. So there's something that probably you may not remember, Angie, but way
long time ago, you were on the Board when I just came on. And you talked about it being a life-changing
experience. And eight years later, I agree with you. It is a very profound experience being on the Board.
It asks everything from you, it takes it all. And it's actually wonderful and also very challenging to be so
challenged. But it hasn't been boring, that I can tell you. It has not been boring, and it has indeed been a
privilege.
So thank you all. Thank you all for sharing yourselves with me. You're a terrific bunch of people. And not
just you, folks, but senior leadership team, and the staff, the Board Office, et cetera. It's been a privilege.
So thank you all very much. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, so I'll say-- let me get out of this room with my echo-- thank you for the kind
words even though I told you all we weren't going to do that. But anyway, who listens to me, right?
So I do have to comment with Director Whitmore that he kind of misses the in-person meetings. I've got to
say this. Last year, since April whenever we started the at-home thing, these have been the best
meetings ever. I mean, I built a compost bin during one meeting for my built a asparagus, growing tank
for another.
Right now I'm doing drywall repairs, because as Director Walker pointed out, I'm a penny-pinching
person, and there's no way I'm going to pay somebody to do it. So anyway, I'm glad this was the last
year. Certainly it's had its misery, but there's always silver linings in everything.
And it's easy enough to put down the drywall spatulas, we get a little further into the meeting. So I just
wanted to comment that there is that silver lining where you can be multitasking in our current situation.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik?

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. It's been a real privilege. I'm humbled to be in this group that is
departing. I'll certainly miss the people the most.
And I wish the best for everyone going forward. And like Director Folska said, hopefully it does improve
sooner than later. But you'll all be in my thoughts, and it's been a real privilege and pleasure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I think early on when I first started I said I was getting to be on the Board back in
'11, and I still am. I was a public transit rider for my whole life pretty much. Every city I lived in, even when
I've had free parking, I still rode the bus. When I worked for CDOT, I got on the 40 and headed down
Colorado to Empire Park.
So anyway, so I'm going to miss all of the things I've learned. It's been incredible. The Board, also Staff,
ones that have left and the ones who are there now-- Mr. McKay, Ms. McManus, Ms. Parrish,] Ms. Carey.
I really miss seeing your faces and talking to you face-to-face.
I can't wait to see my Operators again so they can take me to work and bring me back home at all hours
of the morning and the night. It's been great. Thank you all, and look forward to the rest of the meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Let it be known for the record that it was a unanimous consent
to proceed with these proclamations. Congratulations, you guys, to your next step in your journey, and we
look forward to seeing you coming to Board meetings when we get back into that boardroom.
Our next agenda item is public participation. And what I'd like to do is-- as is our custom-- if anybody
would like to address the Board, to please press star three now. I will call your name in the order in which
you signed up.
Each speaker is allowed three minutes. And also, please bear in mind that participating in this process,
you're being audio recorded. So if you do not wish to be audio recorded, then your comments will have to
be submitted in writing and you will not have the opportunity to speak this evening.
If any speakers have documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email those materials to
the Board Office that the following email address. Board.office@rtd-denver.com. The public participation
period is not the appropriate venue for back-and-forth discussion among speakers and the Board. Please
do not anticipate that the Board will respond to questions and comments at this time.
For this reason, it's important that you state your name and address so someone may follow-up with you
at a later time. For anyone just joining the call, if you'd like to speak to the Board, you can now press star
three on your phone and you will be placed in the queue. And when it's your turn to speak, I will call you
by name.
Our first speaker is Lexanne. And Lexanne, if you wouldn't mind stating your name and address for the
record, and then you may proceed.
LEXANNE LEONARD: Yes. Thank you. My name is Lexanne Leonard and my address is 20445 East
Crestline Place in Centennial. And I just want to congratulate everyone who is moving on, and all of the
retirees who've served us well, and thank you.
And I also want to thank the RTD for making the commitment to take more time in order to delve more
deeply into the safety and security plan that has been discussed at the Wednesday morning Safety and
Security ad hoc committee meetings. I'm also pleased that RTD understands the need to connect more
authentically with the community at-large throughout all the districts and incorporate as many platforms as
possible to make it easier for us to interact with, to have our voices heard, and maybe even see you guys
using the technology that is now possible.

Being able to connect with you at Board and Committee meetings with ease will make for a much
stronger relationship between all of us. Thank you for your work around security, and moving to make the
RTD system for all people, including our unhoused populations and marginalized populations safer. You
are our lifeline, and safety for all is vital.
I look forward to January to hear how the Safety and Security Committee is going to move forward with
including community members. I would like to know how the public will become aware of the possibility of
being involved on this committee, and what will be the process, and how will you inform the public. And I
would also like to know when the calendar for next year's Board meetings and committees will be posted
on your website.
And I would just also like to suggest the possibility of having each Director keep maybe an active
Facebook page so the community members, the district members can easily find what is happening and
how we can make our voices heard. I found that, even though Director Lewis is not my District Director,
her Facebook page makes it way easy for me to be informed of current meetings and what's happening.
It's such a great way to do it these days.
Again, I want to thank you for all your work and giving me this opportunity to have my voice heard. Stay
safe and happy holidays. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Lexanne is our only signed up person to speak. So with no other
callers in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, I
would like to suggest that we take a five-minute break since we've been in this meeting for an hour and a
half, and come back with the rest of our agenda. Is everybody OK with that?
OK. Let's say five minutes. It's 7:06. We'll come back at 7:11. Thank you.
OK, Roger, I have 7:11 if you want to go ahead and kick us off. We are back and we go now-- thank you.
Welcome back, everybody, and thank you for allowing us to take a five-minute break.
I'd like to talk about the committee minutes that were included in the Board packet. Are there any
corrections from the Directors? Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will
become part of the permanent record. I would like to now call on Committee Chair Catlin. If you would, at
this time, please share with us your comments regarding the GM Executive Search and Oversight
Performance Management Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. At our last GMOC meeting, we discussed the process to
meet our agreement with General Manager/CEO, Debra Johnson, to develop performance metrics for
her. That was over 120-day period.
It was agreed that Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I would have initiated discussion with Ms. Johnson, and we
did that a few weeks ago. Ms. Johnson had presented to the Board for action plan for her first 120 days
on the job. And it was thought that, at the last meeting of the Board for this year, that it would be
appropriate to brief the entire Board-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could you please mute? And we just thought that the entire Board would
appreciate hearing a report a her assessment of the agency after her first month. Ms. Johnson will be
providing us with that information update during her General Manager's report later at this meeting.
As we move forward through this iterative process for developing performance metrics, we will continue to
have discussions, not only in the GMOC Committee, but also with the full Board, periodically, and we

welcome any input or comments on this process as we move forward. That concludes my report. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Could everybody please-COMPUTER: You've been muted. To unmute yourself press *6.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Approval of the Board minute meetings for November 17, 2020. May I
please have a motion to approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting of November 17, 2020?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams. Or I can be the second, Director Williams, and somebody
else can move.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I believe it was Director Broom, am I right?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. OK. So we have Director Williams as the movant and Director Broom
is the second. Unless there is any discussion,
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --we'll proceed with the voice vote. Are there any no votes on the approval
of the Board meeting minutes? All right.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
That motion is adopted and the minutes are approved. It is the Chair's report now. And what I would really
like to just talk about is that this is our last official Board meeting for 2020. And I know that you probably
share with me, I can't wait for 2020 to be over.
But I have to tell you that this year has been the most extraordinary year of my career and in my life, and
it's been a year filled with so many mixed emotions. It has been filled with gratitude and concern,
happiness and sadness, fear and hope, but most of all, it's been really a part of an existence that I share
with all of you.
We are in this life's journey together, for some reason, in the timeline that we're in. And we have
accomplished so much in the face of such tragedy and uncertainty. And this year, this Board has done
some significant change.
It has shocked the community that we are thinking outside of the box. We are trying new things, we are
being innovative, we're being courageous, and we're taking things straight on. We started with the Senate
bill early this year that seemed to be pretty devastating to the agency, and were able to move that to
developing a collaborative process of an Accountability Committee with the General Assembly, and the
Governor's office, and DRCOG.
We were able to open up the N Line for our neighbors up north. And we had to deal with COVID-19. I like
to think of it as the invisible monster. Nobody knew what it was, nobody knew what it meant, there was so
much misinformation, every day was a traumatic experience. But our teams, our staff moved forward with
courage, and they were able to keep our system running in the sight of uncertainty, and for that, I cannot
thank you enough.
It has taught me one thing-- and it consistently teaches it to me-- is that the Regional Transportation
District is the economic backbone to this region, number one. And number two, our job is so crucial in
making sure that we are serving every person who lives within our district who utilizes RTD to get to and
from their livelihood. But we didn't stop there. We hired an interim General Manager, and for the first time
we brought in from the outside of our community to help us take a fresh perspective.

And while we were doing that, we launched a search for our permanent General Manager. And for the
first time in the history of RTD, we hired a woman. And we hired a woman of color. It's quite extraordinary
to think that we are looking at things so differently.
Transit agencies have traditionally been run by white males. And this agency has said, nope, not this
time. We're going to look at things a little bit differently. We addressed the Code of Conduct, because this
Board took an action saying, we really need to take a deep dive and see how we are serving all of our
community members and how they can feel safer on our transit system.
And the other thing I would just say to you is that we are working at looking at our structure, which is
fundamental to how we govern this agency, going maybe into smaller communities, advocating for
information from our key stakeholders, and making sure that we're working in collaboration with each
other and that we're communicating, and really getting information and receiving information. I am so
proud of the year that I have sat at this chair as the Board Chair.
I've learned so much about myself, about all those words my ancestors taught me, and about
collaboration and camaraderie, and really the gift of working with 14 amazing stewards of the community.
So thank you. That concludes my report.
With that, it is my pleasure to introduce Ms. Johnson. Ms. Johnson, you've made it through your first 30
days-- a full month-- in this new agency. So congratulations are in order. And if you could, please share
with us your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening to you, Board members, and
to all who are virtually assembled for RTD's December Board meeting. I am Debra Johnson, as
introduced, the General Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District, and will be providing a
brief report to you regarding my activity.
Since the last Board meeting on November 17, which was my eighth day on the job, I have been
immensely busy working diligently on my initial 120-day plan engaging communities to bridge gaps-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Did we lose our General Manager. [LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Maybe she didn't make it through her first 30 days.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know she did. [LAUGHS]
[SIDE CONVERSATION].
Roger, if you can do star six, that should unmute your line.
[ECHO]
DEBRA JOHNSON: Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hello.
[COMPUTER NOISES]
BRANDY HUNTER: You're currently on the dial-in number, as well as your computer, so we'll need you to
get on one.
MELANIE SNYDER: So we're only called in from Blake.
BRANDY HUNTER: And it looks like the Broadnet number has been muted. So Roger would have to dial
star six to unmute.
SPEAKER: Doesn't say [AUDIO OUT]? It was working fine earlier.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: They're working on unmuting Blake. Are you on?
SPEAKER: Test.

SPEAKER 2: I'm definitely the one here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I love technology. I know-- I was going to say-- hey, Brandy, do you see?
Are they able to do the star six connection?
BRANDY HUNTER: I just sent an email to Roger. It looks like someone muted the dial in number that
Roger is connected with.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's the one that we can't mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Oh.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I'm not sure who muted it, but yeah, the 95 number can't be muted. So
hopefully Roger can get that unmuted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
VINCE BUZEK: With me, it's never the technology, it's the operator of the technology.
KATE WILLIAMS: Maybe we could go on with the agenda and come back to the General Manager's
report after that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We could. It could take a little bit though, once we get into the agenda.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Can we give her, maybe, one more minute?
SPEAKER 2: Maybe if we hung up and redialed it-DOUG TISDALE: Kind of sounded like sonar on a submarine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know. [LAUGHS] It did.
NATALIE MENTEN: Or experimental grunge.
DEBRA JOHNSON: We don't need to see anything now, so why don't we log off of that thing?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, record it. You can overdub it, Natalie, and that would be
[INTERPOSING VOICES].
BRANDY HUNTER: Maybe on Teams.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think it's good hold music.
BRANDY HUNTER: That's what I think they were saying. Can you just go online and look on the righthand side?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: While we're waiting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You start. Yeah, OK, go ahead. You're the singer.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BRANDY HUNTER: No, that wouldn't make sense. What do they mean?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So that's what I'm saying. If we were to hang up and call-SPEAKER 3: I can read the screen-DOUG TISDALE: As soon as you said that, Madam Chair, Director Menten muted herself.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm singing.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
I'm here singing. Let's do, Doug. We could do, Twas the Night Before Christmas. All through the house.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I just want to say that-BARBARA MCMANUS: If they hang up from Roger's line, they can go through Nancy's computer for the
audio, but they will have to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: They are going to disconnect and reconnect.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Sounds good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, I'll see. So I just got notification that the public participation in
Broadnet is able to hear-KATE WILLIAMS: You know, I hate to tell you guys, but Zoom meeting work just fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Debra Johnson-KATE WILLIAMS: You can have up to 300 people on the meeting, you never have a problem, we don't
have to have tech people doing it. People can call in, you can see people. Something maybe-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think we're in the world of many platforms that we are researching every
day. And I know that Zoom is on that list as well as Microsoft Meetings that we have. And then the
platform for people calling in. So it's been a year of learning how to navigate all of the technologies.
And the technology has evolved since March as well. So just when you think you got it down, it's changed
again. So that's the other part of it.
SPEAKER 2: So that's what I'm saying-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So folks, I don't know. I'm thinking maybe-- what's your all preference? We
could just move on with the agenda and then when they get her-- yeah, I think we should do that. OK. So
the next thing-- when the General Manager comes in after this [AUDIO OUT].
JUDY LUBOW: See if they can hear you, Debra.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah?
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara, and I am dialed into the Teams meeting. So only the public can
hear the Broadnet portion of it because that's where they are dialed in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I see the General Manager. So then, Barbara, it'll be good for the public
to be able to hear the General Manager's report.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Brandy, I want to ask what I should ask Roger to do on the Broadnet side to
bridge this, because bridging this Team's call with Broadnet is what needs to happen for everybody to
hear, if I am correct.
BRANDY HUNTER: And they should be able to currently hear. It's just we're not hearing them. Someone
has muted the 8895 number.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Can you hear me now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you now. But the question is, can the public hear you now?
BRANDY HUNTER: They should be able to. If Roger could, on his line, dial star six, that'll unmute his
number.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, let me tell him.
[AUDIO OUT]

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [AUDIO OUT]. And the other thing is that this is being recorded. So it will be
in the queue for the public to be able to hear, correct?
BRANDY HUNTER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Then, General Manager Johnson, welcome. A month, it's been a
month, and congratulations. So I'm going to turn the floor over to you so you can please share with us
your report of what you've done so far.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very kindly, Madam Chair, and good evening to all of you, Board
members, and to all who are virtually assembled for RTD's December Board meeting. As introduced, I am
Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District, and I will be
providing to you a brief report regarding my activities.
Since the last Board meeting on November 17, which was my eighth day on the job, I have been
immensely busy working diligently on my initial 120-day plan, Engaging Communities to Bridge Gaps.
The first phase of my plan, which I carved out to be 25 days, consisted of onboarding, meaning I was
acquainting myself with Board members, Board members-elect, employees, stakeholders, ATU
leadership, community and business leaders, as well as jurisdictional partners, which included nearly 70
meetings within a span of nearly 30 days.
My onboarding sessions entailed me asking the same questions of those with whom I met to spawn
discussions and to lead me to garner an understanding of what it is I don't know. My intent is to identify
common themes that will lead me to formulate and that you've documented. The second phase of my
plan will spend the next 60 days, and will encompass an assessment of varying demographics, senior
leadership team employees, customers, stakeholders, as well as the agency's finances, service delivery,
FasTracks, and diversity, equity, and inclusion.
I have met and had meet-and-greets with state legislators, engaged with mayors within the region, met
with the regional administrators of regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Transit Administration, the
Federal Railroad Administration, as well as the head of our State Transportation Association, and
business leaders within the Metro Region, and have more meetings on tap later this week and next. I
have participated on several panels, webinars, and conducted interviews, including but not limited to, The
Transit is the Future, Denver Transit Justice Forum co-hosted by Denver Street Partnership and Mile High
Connects on Wednesday, December 2.
I participated in the Women Advancing Transportation for Our Future Mobility Needs panel, co-sponsored
by the Southern Plains Transportation Center at the University of Oklahoma, and the Minetta
Transportation Institute at San Jose State University on Wednesday, December 9, and a virtual rally and
press conference hosted by New York MTA. It was a virtual rally for COVID-19 relief funding, last
Wednesday, the 9th, in which I joined my peers from across the country to reiterate our needs to
Congress for funding support.
My onboarding listening sessions have enabled me to gain a better understanding and insight into RTD's
critical role as a mobility provider within the region, meet committed individuals who value transportation
and the connectivity it provides, and initiate relationships that I'm confident will lead to greater cooperation
and collaboration. I look forward to entering phase two of my assessment over the next 60 days. Thank
you very kindly, Madam Chair, that concludes my report.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. Any questions for the General Manager?
[AUDIO OUT]. All right, hearing none, thank you.

Next on our agenda is Unanimous Consent. There are four items from the Unanimous Consent agenda
this evening. They are listed under item 12 as sections a through d. So Lamar Transit adjusted MAG for
2021, the salaried employee trustee appointments, the budget transfer for commuter rail third party
services, and contributions to the FasTracks fund balance.
If any one has a change to or questions on any of these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this
time, and we will, of course, be happy to pull the item or items from Unanimous Consent agenda for
consideration under Recommended Action. Director Lewis? I'm sorry? First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know what I think, based on the letter that we received
from ATU today, I think there's some confusion about item D. And I think we might benefit by having a
little bit of discussion and greater understanding of that issue. And so I request that it be pulled from the
content agenda so that we can get some clarification on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Is that it? That's the only person I'm seeing pulling anything
out.
OK, so we are going to pull item d about the contributions to FasTracks fund balance. Let's go ahead and
do the discussion. Director Catlin?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
VINCE BUZEK: I would like to make a motion to approve the Unanimous Consent agenda items a eight
through c, with the exception of item d.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to second, Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All in favor?
BOARD: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any opposed? OK, the motion to move forward the consent with the
exception of contributions to FasTracks is moved. So now we can have a discussion about D,
contributions to the FasTracks fund balance.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Since I requested that it be taken off just so that we can have
a discussion, I think there's some confusion-- at least this is the way I thought-- that we voted to not
contribute to the FISA account this year, but rather, put that amount toward the FasTracks reserves,
which would have the flexibility, as I understand it, to be used for operations and maintenance, which
would include the represented and non-represented employees that are involved in that program. Am I
correct or am I misunderstanding?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, while she's getting [INAUDIBLE], it seems to me that our approval of that
allowed us flexibility that we did not otherwise have. And I think that's where the confusion lay in the letter
that we received. It does not restrict us as would have contributing to the FISA account those dollars. So I
just wanted to make that point and then ask other Board members to offer up their views of the same.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: Yes. And just to underscore that point, if we did not adopt item D tonight, if we did not
approve that, then what would happen is those monies would go into the FISA account and it would make
it more difficult, that money not as readily used for 2021 operations and/or to respond to the changes that
we might see in stimulus funding, for example, or it might be carried forward to buttress subsequent
years. So yes, just to put a point on Director Catlin's statement, what we want to do, I think, in keeping
with the sentiment that Lance had provided in the letter is to go ahead and adopt this because that
preserves a more ready use of this money at our option, depending on how circumstances evolve in the
next several months. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other comments from any other Board members?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think, as I read this recommended action, one point that I'd like to mention, but I'll
add a question mark so that I can get confirmation on this, is this money is not going into a general fund.
So let's say it is Bus Operations, it's going into the FasTracks, as I'm reading the language here, to
FasTracks Unrestricted Reserve for Future Shortfalls in Operations and Maintenance Costs.
But keep in mind, that's FasTracks. So if it was Base Operations, let's say it's the Zero Bus on Broadway,
or 21, or 16, that's not part of FasTracks. Would that be correct, RTD Staff?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, this is Doug MacLeod.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, that is correct. So we do need to keep the FasTracks funding
separate. So with the FISA, the direction with that was that any excess funds on FasTracks, to do with
FasTracks went into the FISA. So in this case, we're asking to have those excess FasTracks funds stay
with those FasTracks, of course, but go towards Operations and Maintenance.
NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Let me go ahead and further narrow that down, then. So as an example, Mr.
MacLeod, let's say we were talking about, besides Bus Operations, but we were talking about, let's say,
the E, F lines. Actually, let's go to C and D, going with the C and D line, that would not be part of
FasTracks. So it'd be a very limited-DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, this is Doug MacLeod-NATALIE MENTEN: Fairly limited.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, that is correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Mr. MacLeod. That is correct, right?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right Thank you. So I just-- this is Menten, for the record. I just wanted to bring
that forward because I think that's an important note. Thank you, that's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: So Madam Chair-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Director Lubow? I'm sorry?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is General Counsel, Melanie Snyder.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, General Counsel.

MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, OK, thank you. I wasn't sure if you could hear me. So it's just a point of order
here. We have a motion and a second on the Unanimous Consent agenda. So this discussion needs to
discuss the items that were not removed. So we need to pause this conversation about the FISA and
have a discussion and then a vote on the Unanimous Consent agenda items.
VINCE BUZEK: We already did.
PEGGY CATLIN: We already did.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. We did do that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, we had a motion, we did not have a vote.
MELANIE SNYDER: You had a motion-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: There was a motion and a second. We had Director Williams and Director
Broom.
JEFF WALKER: And a vote.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: to vote. And a vote. Yeah.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know. It was kind of iffy. It was kind of iffy.
MELANIE SNYDER: I didn't-- I apologize. I didn't hear a vote on that main motion, and I didn't hear
another motion, then, on the item D that was pulled from the consent agenda.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think we didn't have-- this is Director Folska-- we didn't have a vote. It was one of
those, if you have a no to put it up. But nobody objected, so it was kind of like a silent vote. Sort of like
Director Menten said, iffy. But we haven't had a motion and a second for discussion of item D.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So my understanding is that Director Catlin asked for this to be
removed for discussion purposes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I did make a motion. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. So I did get a motion for that.
MELANIE SNYDER: But there isn't a second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. So I do need a second. Do I have a second?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Director Williams. I saw Tisdale first, sorry. All right, so Director Tisdale is the second. So the movant is
Director Catlin and the second is Director Tisdale. Now, we can have the discussion, continue the
discussion on the FISA components of this, correct?
OK, so we have gotten some information both on questions on where the dollars would go for. Mr.
MacLeod is talked about that. It does have to stay within the FasTrack component. So it would not be for,
like, Light Rail, like the C to D one, correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, Madam Chair, this is Doug MacLeod.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other discussion on this item?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, this is Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I think the ATU letter has conflated two separate and different issues. One was this
particular motion on what to do about the money going into the FISA. But he also mentioned a $17 million
contribution, which is not part of this memo, and it was something that was really concerning it.

But he raised it in an inaccurate forum, because it has nothing to do with this particular memo. It was
something to do with our budget, which has already been passed. So I think it's important to deconflate
that, deconstruct those two items. Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And just to expand a little upon the comment that
our interim Chief Financial Officer, Doug MacLeod, said, there's nothing about this resolution that
changes what we are obligated to do. In other words, funds that are raised from the FISA portion of our
sales and use tax must be expended on FISA alone. Base funds may be used to supplement the
FasTracks-- FISA-- I'm sorry, I misspoke. I meant FasTracks alone.
Base funds may be used for FasTracks, but FasTracks funds may not be used for base. And I think that's
the clarification that I understood Director Catlin to be making so that people understood there is nothing
unusual about this. It's just that the funds that we have from the FasTracks revenues that when there is
excess we typically deposit into the FISA for future purposes, we are saying, no, we're going to hold them
in the FasTracks reserve for purposes of operations and maintenance which would include, of course,
payment of wages of our operators. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin. Muted.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're muted.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Director, Lubow. You stated it perfectly in terms of the conflation of the two
issues, and also Director Tisdale for your clarification. I just thought that there was some confusion as
evidenced by that letter, and that's why I wanted to open it up for this discussion. But-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
I would like to make a motion to have item D that was on the consent agenda.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. So we have a motion on the table to reinstate D, Director Catlin.
Do I have a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All in favor?
ALL: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any opposed? All right, it moves forward as adopted originally under
recommended action, or unanimous action to move forward. OK, thank you.
Next, we have two recommended action on the agenda, item E and F. The first is the CRL Associates
Final Option Year, and then the second is-- and that's to extend that one-- and then the second is the
approval of the contract extension for Jacobs Engineering. So-DEBRA JOHNSON: Excuse me, Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, General Manager, Debra Johnson. Sorry for the interruption. Just
wanted to make all aware that Director Lewis has been trying to have her voice heard since the day of the
update and she has not been able to. So we here, as Staff, have been trying to apprise individuals, but I
just wanted you to be cognizant of the fact that Director Lewis has been trying to participate.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. All right, so going back to the recommended
actions, we do have two recommended actions on the agenda tonight, items E and F, the first being CRL
Associates Final Year Option-[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Move approval
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have Broom and Folska. Any abstentions? Are there any no votes?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Menten. Director Lewis-KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, Mihalik.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oops. Go ahead, Director Mihalik. Go ahead. And then I have a question about
Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: I was just saying I'm a no vote.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And Director Menten, you're a no vote, correct?
NATALIE MENTEN: That is correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just a quick discussion, if I may. A memo came out-- and I think it was right after the
meeting started-- from staff. I had volunteered last week to meet on that and deal with Pauletta and some
of her staff, Christina. And with two different contracts with CRL-- one of them is separated. It's going out
to RFP in February. That deals with all the town halls that we do. Those are separate from this particular
contract, which is for the stated amount if it was brought before the board, I think it was $98,000,
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any other comments?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, just a question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten. Yeah. I am concerned that Director Lewis is-- I heard her
earlier, so is there a issue there?
- Is there anything we can do to make that work?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus, I think you've been communicating with Director Lewis, is
that correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Cider, General Counsel. From the platform, it looks
like Director Lewis has called in from two different phones. So she's called into the public line and she's
also called into the host line. So if she's trying to speak on the phone where she's called in on the public
line, she's not going to be able to be heard. I think is the issue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I see her the other line. I see her on the host line as well, General
Manager. Director Lewis, can you hear us?
MELANIE SNYDER: And Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder again. So as I said, she's called in from
two different phones on two different lines. If she wants to speak, she needs to speak on the line where
she is called in as a host, not on the public.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten. Did we tell her what's the last four digits of that phone to make that a
little more clear, if there's confusion there?
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Excuse me, point of clarification. This is Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
Director Lewis is on the host line.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, she is.
DEBRA JOHNSON: That's the number she's using. I just received confirmation from Director Lewis
pertaining to that. I wanted to make sure everyone was aware. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. She also is on the participant line and recording this
via Facebook. So I don't really know how all of these technologies mesh. We are bringing together two
separate technologies to have this meeting brought forward. And Director Lewis is bringing in a third
technology on a different line. I don't know how that dovetails with what's going on, but I have been
texting with her back and forth because I have known that she's wanting to be heard, but I don't know how
to make her be heard with all of the background technology that is going on with her two phone numbers.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
- Madam Chair, if I may suggest, maybe Director Lewis could try on the host line that she's using to press
star 6. Maybe that will help her be unmuted perhaps.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Brandy, are you on the phone?
BRANDY HUNTER: I am currently on the Teams meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Brandy's our IT person. Any suggestions?
BRANDY HUNTER: I am hearing Director Lewis when she speaks, but she's very, very faint. So if we
could maybe wait just a minute after asking if there was any questions and listen for that very faint
interjection.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: She is no longer on the host line. She hung up from there. And I do see her
on the callers line, but not on the host line any longer. So that means she wouldn't be able to speak, is
that correct?
BRANDY HUNTER: Depending on how she is connected, she should be able to speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, can you hear us?
BARBARA MCMANUS: If Director Lewis would join us now on the Teams meeting, we would be able to
hear her. And I have asked her where she was connected and I did not get a response from her. I will text
her again. I apologize for all this, but we try our best to cobble this together. And I apologize for all of
these misgivings, but we're doing our best.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, and Ms. McManus, I just have to say, this is a little cumbersome with
three different things going on. So I think we just need to have Director Lewis get on the Teams meeting
to participate in this committee to have any discussion. I really think her voice is very valuable, but the two
pieces that we have open for the Board of Directors and the public did not include live Facebook. I didn't
even know that they were doing that. So I think that if she could work with us through this, that would be
really helpful.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams. I just want to note that I am able to be on this meeting on my
computer and on my phone and I don't have any problem. I've spoken on both of them. So I don't know if
Director Lewis has some technology issues, but it's possible to be here on a computer and to be here on
a phone, both through Teams.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think the issue, though, is the live Facebook. I think that's the thing that's
making this not work. Am I correct, Brandy? That's what I'm hearing. OK.
BRANDY HUNTER: Without knowing all of the interfaces, I'm not 100% sure. I would have to definitely
look at Director Lewis and how everything's all connected.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK so this Board has a decision to make. We've got recommended actions
for a vote that we need to bring forward. Do we want to pause until Director Lewis can get on or do we
want to move forward? If I could get a verbal vote. All in favor of moving forward, could you just say aye?
I don't know how else to do that but to go through the list. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I think we should wait a little bit.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize. I think we ought to just give it another minute and perhaps if Director Lewis
disconnected from the public call-in number and just joined the Teams meeting, that might work.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. We should wait.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sounds good. OK. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think we can give it a few more minutes. I mean, we've been here for, I don't know
even know what time it is. Is that Director Lewis?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what? It looks like-SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: All right. You did it. OK. We're good to go.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Folska. I just want to say for the record it's not because I'm
Facebook Live streaming. I've been Facebook live streaming this entire meeting and I've had access to
be able to speak earlier in this meeting. I was muted by one of the hosts, Roger. And I asked if he could
unmute me and he wasn't able to. And so that's been the issue. It's not the livestreaming.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director, just for the record, I think the same thing happened to our
General Manager. She couldn't get unmuted as well. OK. So if we could then move on with the two
recommended actions. I have a movement with Director Broom and a second with Director Folska. And
this one is for the CRL contract. And Director Guissinger, you were making a statement about that. Did
you want to do that again now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think I finished.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any other discussion on this?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think all we are missing on this is that we didn't get the Director Lewis vote and then
we'll be finished. That's why I brought it up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So Director Lewis, we have Director Broom moving, Director Folska
seconding. We're doing all in favor of the CRL contract. And so, your vote please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No. And I also had comments from the previous items that were presented that I
wasn't able to chime in on, but no for CRL.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So I have Broom, Folska all in-- I have three no's and 12 yesses.
That motion passes. OK. The second one is the approval of the contract extension for Jacobs
Engineering for FasTracks program consulting services. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. Tisdale.
JUDY LUBOW: Second. Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: A second. OK. Is there any further discussion on this motion? Hearing none,
I'm going to go on the directors in turn for a vote. Director Williams, I'll start with you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have no questions or comments, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No questions or comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions or comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nothing from me. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comment. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Nothing for me. I'll support the motion. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. I, too, will support the motion
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions or comments. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions or comments. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I have no questions or comments. So I'm going to go through. And all in
favor? Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes vote. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. That's 15 yesses. It passes unanimously. OK. Before we go
on to old business, Director Lewis, you said you had some comments on some previous discussion items.
Do you want to bring those forward now?
SHONTEL LEWIS: If I may, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I had a clarifying question from the General Manager Oversight Committee update.
One of the things that we talked about at our last meeting was the planning for our retreat, during that
committee. And I noticed in the minutes that were presented to the executives that it appears that that
agenda item may have gone to the Executive Committee for deliberation. And I was wondering if you
might report out to the Board where we are in terms of the planning, as it hadn't come back to our
General Manager Oversight Committee, as originally stated.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin, did you want to talk about this?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that we felt that it would be more appropriate for the Board as a whole to have
that session. And as we move forward with General Manager CEO Johnson, and then talk about what we
want to do with this 120-day performance plan, I think we had some discussion that perhaps we might
want to reconsider the timing of that retreat.
But that hasn't been decided definitively. It was just a discussion that the timing might be adjusted to look
at it more strategically. And one of the things that we did talk about was rather than just hiring a facilitator
for our retreats, that we maybe look at hiring somebody with a skill set that looks more towards strategic
visioning and direction, and helping us with some of that, as a Board, and with Debra Johnson.

So Chair Rivera-Malpiede, if you want to add to that-- and then also, Debra Johnson. There's just been
some thought given to a different approach, this year.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I would agree with you, Director Catlin. One of the things that we heard
pretty clearly was that people didn't want the same old, same old. They really wanted to look at things
more deeply and more strategically. And in talking briefly with the General Manager, she had some ideas
that she has been pushing around.
But we thought it needed to be a discussion for the whole board. So General Manager, I'd ask you if you
have any added comments to this.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Yes. Just to frame it for everybody assembled,
it's looking at it from a holistic perspective, from a strategic planning, whereby we want to look at
outcomes collectively, as we look at the board, as we look at my role as the General Manager or CEO, in
addition to members of my senior leadership team holistically looking at where we're trying to go,
identifying what those core aspects would be, from a strategic vantage point of looking at here's our
strategic pillars, basically based upon what we extrapolate. Here we are, that we can utilize these primary
tactics in formulating a budget. But all of this is encompassed throughout our organizational focus, which
should be our vision and our mission. And there should be alignment, collectively amongst all of that, as
we work comprehensively to drive the organization towards success outcomes.
So that's the vantage point from which we're coming, not just the mere facilitation, but holistically working
cooperatively as a cohesive unit, in order to drive performance for the organization, as opposed to
abstractly having a one day retreat, whereby we're coming up with things that may not be intertwined.
Thank you very much for the opportunity.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I have one follow-up, in terms of process. And so because I noticed that the
topic had been brought up in the Executive Committee, and that was outside of the General Manager
Oversight Committee, where it was originally discussed, do you anticipate, Madam Chair, that that
discussion will be held-- with the update and the planning of that-- held with the executive committee, the
General Manager Oversight, of with the entire board, or a combination of all of that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We were thinking, as we're moving forward, it probably is going to be a
conversation with the whole board. But I think that we've all been talking about it a little bit, as we work
through the different committees. This really is a huge issue for the whole board to take a look at.
And In terms of thinking differently, as we've done in the past with our traditional board retreat in
February, in senior leadership, and General Manager and board in March, can we do something a little bit
different now that we have a new General Manager? And we're looking at things a little bit different in the
agency. So I do think it is evolving, as we're having discussions.
This did clearly start at the GMOC. The Executive Committee did talk about this. But I do think it is a
board discussion.
Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And you're right. The reason it was overlayed on the GMOC
agenda was because it aligned with performance and goal setting for the General Manager. But the
GMOC is not driving that discussion. And so we felt that it really ought to be elevated to the Executive
Committee and the whole board, for that discussion. And that it really was not the responsibility of the
GMOC, but just overlaid a little bit. So that's a point of clarification, Director Lewis, if that helps.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that clarification. So moving forward, we should
expect, as a board, to be updated on how that process is to pursue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely. Yes. Any other questions, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Those are all the questions I have. Thank you so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
Is there any old business to come before this board?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a quick update on a couple of things from the Accountability Committee. At
the meeting earlier this week, our CEO, Debra Johnson, spoke and, I think, did a great job talking about
how some of the issues they were looking at, we hope, can be looked at from a higher level strategic
view. And then there was a report from their consultant, North Highland Consultants. And they had been
asked to look at how RTD spent the CARES Act money, and to make sure that we had spend it well and
wisely and all of those things.
And I'm happy to report that their report was basically, everything was good. And I'm hoping that we'll get
the PowerPoint and a summary that they agreed they're putting together for the committee soon. And
we'll pass those on to the board with more specifics.
They did make some recommendations, moving forward, if we get more money. But they basically said
that the agency moved forward, being mindful of its workforce and its duties and made sound decisions.
And then the committee is putting out a report. The committee is only required to put out a report when it
finishes its work in July. But they had an option to put out a December report. It's actually going to be in
January. They're expecting to, more or less, finalize it January 11. And then I believe that the co-chairs of
the committee are scheduled to speak to the board on January 12.
And the basic outline, I think, would be the only firm recommendations that they'll be making are the
recommendations to the legislature to change some of the restrictions in the RTD statutes that deal with
parking, TOD, and contracting and fare box recovery. Senator Faith Winter and Representative Matt Gray
will be carrying a bill that deals with those issues.
And the rest of the report, I think, will be summarizing where they are, what direction they're looking on
some of the other issues they're looking at, and mentioning the issues that they haven't really addressed
yet, but plan to address. Those meetings, as always, the public. Tomorrow, there's one for the Financial
Committee at 11:00, and the Operations Subcommittee at 3:00.
If any of you care to attend-- or you can always check in later. I think Jeff Walker, or someone, said that
it's a good thing to turn it up to 1 and 1/2 times speed, if you can watch it later. If you have any questions,
[AUDIO OUT] answering.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Treasurer Guissinger, that was really a great presentation by North
Highland. I really appreciated the depth that they went into. And it was really nice to really get
confirmation to everybody that RTD does do a really damn good job in their work, what they do with their
finances. So thank you for bringing that forward to the board.
SHELLEY COOK: You're welcome.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I speak? This is Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for that report.

And I'm just wondering. I had the feeling from looking at some summaries of prior subcommittee meetings
that there was a movement towards non collaboration, but coming up with some of their own ideas,
without really talking to our staff about it. And I was wondering that continuing, has that issue been
brought up about the potential need and really essentialness of cooperation?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes that issue has been brought up. In fact, I feel like I'm raising it quite often. And I do
believe that they are doing a much better job of that. But they're starting to work more closely with their
staff. And they do want to hear from staff.
I think they're putting together a meeting Friday, a technical meeting for staff around the district. And I'll
ask Ms. McManus to send that out to the board, for the people that would want to attend.
JUDY LUBOW: What is it about?
SHELLEY COOK: I believe it's going to be focused on the issue. One of the things they're discussing is
the possibility of using something along the lines of the subregional forums, or some sort of local council,
maybe county based, if they use the DRCOG regional forums. And those forums are county by county.
And they come up with the TIP recommendations for federal funding, transportation funding, for each of
their counties.
There's discussion now of trying to do something along those lines, to give input or make local decisions
about some of the local transit in those areas. There's really been nothing fleshed out, at this point, in
terms of how that would work with the buses and trains that are crossing those districts and what exactly
those [AUDIO OUT] would look like. They had a presentation from LA Metro. But I don't know that that's
the direction we're going. So I believe that-- well, I'm not sure.
That's one issue they're looking at. So we'll talk about this some later, when we talk about our
committees. But they're also looking at our past programs. Fares, should be looking at. For instance, one
of the questions is should the discounts be the same? Rather than 40% for the LiVE program, 60% for the
seniors and persons with disabilities, and 70% for youth. There's some discussion that can simplify that,
which I think has been a discussion within the agency, where there were a lot of people who are pushing
hard for the 70% youth discount. So they're just trade-offs.
And I do think that working closely with RTD, hopefully, in the near future, we'll be able to reach some
conclusions on that and help shape those conclusions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Any other questions?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the first question question is about the amount of the money that was set aside
by RTD for this committee. As I recall, it was $400,000.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I think $200,000.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I believe it's 200.
NATALIE MENTEN: $200,000?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, $200,000. Has that-- do we have a status of what's been spent?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I don't. I don't think we spent that. But I don't know if anybody on the
phone does have a status. Why don't we plan to get a status report?
DOUG MCLEOD: Madam Chair--

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If that would-DOUG MCLEOD: This is Doug McLeod, Madam Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: Doug, yeah?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, go ahead, Mr. McLeod.
DOUG MCLEOD: Thank you Director Guissinger and Director Menton. Yes, so through November 30 we
have spent $39,000 of the $200,000. And that is just on internal salaries. The rest remains.
NATALIE MENTEN: For DRCOG staff? Is that what that is?
DOUG MCLEOD: Oh sorry, that's just for staff time. So in our budget we had-- so RTD's budget, we have
$200,000 budgeted, and $39,000 of that has been used with staff time for the-- RTD staff time for the
Accountability Committee.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, all right. So Menton, next question has there been, I don't recall which meeting it
was, but a shared desire to bring to the Accountability Commission's attention about removing the 58%
contracted limit in especially light of exploring transit vouchers? Which may involve, as we stated to
people within the January Service Change, Uber and Lyft. So was that shared with the committee, and
was there any interest in helping us with that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We did discuss that. And I don't believe that is moving forward. But I will check and
see where the committee is on that. Because I think that's a good concern as we start looking at Lyft and
Uber and others. I'll check on that. We did discuss it.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you. Yes, because if we miss this-- miss the deadline of course, as we all
know, that would leave another year. But I don't know what we have in the works right now. But with
January Service Changes coming up quickly that's of interest to me.
And I do have to find, after so many years on the Board, and especially having a lot of the historical
documents, fascinating to watch how things get recirculated. So with the discussion about going back to
make it more simple with the discounts, and we had what a year, maybe of the Affairs Committee of the
task Working Group working on it? And we were very close to more similar discounts. I mean, we had
there the nonprofit was at 50%. Then it went to 40, and now we're just circling all the way back again.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know if it's amusing, or frightening. I don't know at this point. Anyway, I had to
share that once I heard that we're talking about it again. All right, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's a good point to pass to the Working Group. I think the world has
changed and that may be the impetus for re-looking at some of those things now to bring ridership back.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I see Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize, I forgot to lower my hand.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I believe Director Walker may have had his hand
up before me if you want to go in order, but I will defer to you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Tisdale. So I listened to the Accountability Committee
meeting, a few of them. But I'm wondering what the difference is between that local planning organization
that's been discussed in those Accountability Committee meetings and the work that the TMO, TMAs do
Commuting Solutions, et cetera. I don't know what the difference is. That seems about as local as you
can get unless you're knocking on people's doors asking how they want to get anywhere.

And also, for those areas that don't have them. Like I don't live in a TMA area. But their transportation
plan, small area plans. I know Denver has, and other cities, Englewood, just did one. So I'm not sure what
this other level of bureaucracy. Oh my gosh, I'm starting to sound more conservative than I think I am, but
I'm not sure what that would add to the transportation planning process.
It's not like just because people want transit we can provide it. We have to provide it to people who
actually use it. And that's identified through land use, density, employment density, residential density, et
cetera. So that's one of the questions I had.
The other question I had, observation, is about the discounts. And we just went through this five years
ago. We had those discussions I think instead of spending our staff's time and the district's money, I think
a lot of the members of that Accountability Committee could just do a Google search on our documents
and see what that discussion was, and save our staff time.
The problem was somebody, as I remember the discussion, and I was all in favor of just getting rid of all
of our fare zones and just having one. But the problem was somebody who only goes three, two miles to
on a bus would pay the same fare as somebody who's coming down from Longmont to get to downtown.
Or somebody who drives-- rides 20 miles, that didn't strike-- that didn't seem very equitable to a lot of
people. Because Denver's only 150 square miles and JEFFCO is 700, and Arapahoe County goes all the
way to the Mississippi River pretty much.
I can understand why folks would feel that way. But that's why it is. It just seems like a whole lot of
discussion in that committee about stuff that we've already gone through, and we're the ones that are
tasked with doing that. And just because some folks don't understand how we got there, you could ask
instead of being all up in our business. Anyway, I'm guessing, now I'm ranting.
Thank you for the work that DRCOG does. Thank you for the work our staff does, and the two of you,
Whitmore and Guissinger. But that, I'm just totally bewildered by why that committee exists. I know why
but, I wish they would just say why. Anyway, that's it. I'll shut up now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm not fond of disturbing sleeping dogs while they
lie. But regarding the finances and budget question that was raised and Mr McLeod's response, I suppose
it is possible that DRCOG has not yet felt compelled to prepare nor submit a bill for reimbursement for its
costs.
So I don't know that we can take a great deal of comfort in saying, oh, we budgeted $200,000, but we've
only spent $39,000. I believe it may be possible that there are some submitted bills out there that will
come to us in the future. And I don't know if anyone has any information on that, but that would be my
assumption. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There's no question that that's the case. DRCOG has been spending time, and part
of, I believe that $100,000 was intended to go to towards their time and $100,000 towards the contractor
or consultant, kind of rough numbers. And both of them have been spending time. DRCOG certainly more
than [INAUDIBLE]. And I think they'll be using [INAUDIBLE] for various things.
And just in terms of just questions about what the difference is with the TMOs and TMAs, I think that
these local councils, each have regional forums, but really there's a lot to be fleshed out. And the reason
for those is people wanting more of a local voice in RTD's planning and service provision. And there may
be other ways to achieve that. But that's one they're looking at. And I think that there's another idea-[BEEPING]

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, can someone mute themselves, please?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That sounded like an echo from me, but I'm not on the phone. Another reason for
looking at those is that typically, if you look statewide and potentially district wide, it's hard to get sales
taxes passed or additional taxes. At the same time, local governments can often raise money for a
particular project. And it may be a way to enhance transit by giving-- by looking at more of a relationship
there. And I think that's one of the goals of the leaders of the Accountability Committee.
So I know that Debra Johnson has had experience with some of these things. And she's going to be
attending the meetings going forward, as many as she can, and I think she'll be able to help with what
works and what doesn't. And we'll see where it goes. Troy, did you have anything to add?
TROY WHITMORE: No, I think we've covererd it. And I certainly understand where some of the views
have come from, and kind of have some of those in my heart and mind as well. I'll leave it at that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Mrs. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I just want to-[ECHO]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got to love technology. We'll give her a minute.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Can everybody hear me clearly?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK sorry. I am on two screens and a phone to make this meeting work. So it's
sometimes hard to manage where I am and what I'm doing. So we did request an accounting from
DRCOG of where we were with the budget, because I was hoping to be able to manage my carryforward
budget at RTD in some sort of order. And although we did get some information about what was going on
with the different contracts with DRCOG, we still have not received a single invoice that we have drawn
down on the $200,000.
And I just wanted everybody to know that, because it's important to know that if we're trying to span all of
the information across the timing of the start and the finish of the Accountability Committee, we want to be
able to give a good recollection of what that looks like. So I am working with Doug McLeod to break all of
that out once we get the invoices that we're paying down on.
I have put my entire budget in December. So I will have variances every single month as we're moving
through to the end of this process of the $200,000. Because I had no other way of spreading that budget,
because I didn't have a reference of what it might look like. I just wanted to put that out there for
everyone.
We're still working within the $200,000 time frame. We have spent a lot of staff time as well. And Doug
McLeod is tracking that. We can share that perhaps in the first or second meeting of the year, what that
looks like over and above the $200,000 that was put forward for the implementation of the Accountability
Committee. But I wanted everybody to know that we are tracking that in the best way that we can based
on the information that's been brought forward to us. So, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: You know, it's my recollection that we allocated $200,000 which would go through
DRCOG, and would pay for their staff time and would pay for consultants that they might use, and so

forth. But that RTD staff time, while we'll keep track of it just for the informational purposes, was not got
going to come out of that $200,000.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's my recollection. I think that was my recollection as well. I think that's right,
yeah. That's not-- just,for just RTD staff time.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That is the correct statement. But so so often we have gone into these projects
with a lot of the community members. And we've never tracked to that in the past. And thinking ahead,
and knowing that we have very strong budget restraints right now, we decided that going forward any of
the external projects that we're working on we were going to assign a number to, so that the Board of
Directors, as well as staff, would know what staff time is cost moving forward with, along with the budget
that we put forward for these external efforts. We've never done that in the past. And we thought it was
important starting at this point in time with the budget restraints that we would do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. I don't see anybody else. So thank you, Treasurer
Guissinger, for that report, and Director Whitmore. Next is new business, and there's the Ad Hoc
Committee on the committee structure update. So I'm going to ask Director Cook at this time to give us an
update on the proceedings of the Ad Hoc Committee on the committee structure. Second Vice Chair
Cook, you have the floor.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I'll ask Director Tisdale, too, to chime in at
the end if he needs or if he'd like to. And let me just introduce this by saying everybody has seen a cover
memo and a white paper. And they lay out pretty well where we are in this process. But just to recap, and
also for people watching, several months ago you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, asked the two of us to take a
look at whether or not changes to our committee structure, perhaps reducing the size of the committees,
might be advisable. To look at best practices, to take into account what other agencies are doing, come to
view the literature.
So that's laid out here. But at core what this is about is seeing whether or not there are ways to build
Board and agency capacity right now, at a time when we're facing a lot of challenges. When as Director
Guissinger and Director Whitmore mentioned, we'll be having a series of recommendations that will be
emanating from the Accountability Committee. So anyway, the idea is, is there a way through our
committee structure, our standing committees, to arm ourselves. To make ourselves better able to be
responsive, to appropriately work on issues. And to do that in partnership with our staff so that we're all
working together.
So a capacity building effort, the idea is that we're here with some initial information, not with
recommendations at this point. And we'd like to get input from the Board members. We invite you to share
your comments tonight, but we also encourage written comments. Several of the newly elected Board
members have sent through some very thoughtful comments. And I would encourage you, if you're able
to do that, to likewise commit to paper what your thoughts are. But regardless, I'll be taking notes. I know
Director Tisdale will as well. And we'll have this recording.
If you do choose to provide notes, then it would be helpful by the end of the week. And so with that,
Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Thank you very much, Director Cook. I think we said it all in the cover
memo and in the white paper, which was very extended. But that's to ensure that everyone has the
opportunity for full information. We wanted to communicate this to you so that we could now collaborate
together as a body, with all of us.

The committee was not charged with the task of coming up with a proposed revision to our whole
structure. We are charged with the task of gathering information, distilling it, and giving you a focused
approach to examine all of this. And it will be a collaborative effort. And, as Director Cook pointed out,
we've had some phenomenal comments already submitted in writing. And this was intended to be an
opportunity this evening for those who would choose to use the time here to give us some verbal
comments as well. Thank you, Madam Chairman
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, any comments from any Board members?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menton.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so the entire time that I've been on the Board it's been the committees of the
whole except for the General Manager Oversight Committee. And my involvement over the years is
attending every meeting. If I look back at how many times have been absent, it would be a very small
amount.
But my opinion, Director Cook and I have talked multiple times. And just after having been on the Board
for multiple years, I don't know where this proposal may change my life if I was going to be serving
another four years. Because what I would end up doing is attending every one of those subcommittees or
smaller committees. There wouldn't-- it would not change my life as a Board Director. And I'm not sure the
purpose.
It makes me almost think back to the discussion earlier that we were talking about, what is our RTD's
history. And did we look at fares and the discount program, and when did when did we have this
previously with RTD and the committee structure. And so I'm just hearing this here on my last official
meeting, and after hearing this discussion many times now at this point over the last few months, I don't
know how it would change my life.
As matter of fact, I have maybe some concerns that it would turn more meetings in the middle of the day,
with a position that pays for an RTD Director you're compensating $12,000 a year. A big chunk of RTD
Board directors are going to have a day job. And more meetings that are held in the middle of the day
perhaps makes that a little bit harder to have a regular position.
So I'm just sharing that I'm still a little bit puzzled by this. And know 100% for me personally, it wouldn't
save anything. I would have to be chiming into that Zoom meeting or driving down to Blake Street-[SIDE CONVERSATION]
NATALIE MENTEN: --or something. So I wanted to share that as part of the record.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Walker? Sir, you're muted.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I had a problem with my fat fingers. So I-[SIDE CONVERSATION]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, excuse me, somebody needs to mute their phone. We can hear you.
OK, go ahead Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Yeah, I think Director Menten will still spend time no matter how many
committees or who's on it, because she's that dedicated. Anyway, so my understanding is that this came
along sometime in the late, mid to late '00s that they became committees of the whole.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.

JEFF WALKER: I knew it at one time, I don't remember anymore. But the reason they came to be was a
lack of trust. And if this committee or if this Board finds trust in one another, then smaller committees are
fine. I'm sure there will still be people that will be interested and they'll want to attend, tune in. What it
would likely do is change the discussion, that long discussion, from the first two or three Tuesdays to the
last Tuesday when the Board meeting happens.
I think the discussion will still happen because that's why people run for this Board. Why most people run
for the Board, to talk about the issues and the policies and the service changes, et cetera. So I think it'll
work if everybody trusts everybody else. It'll be fine.
I really like that book, I can't remember the name of it. The CEO Board thing that Eadie and Stackrow
wrote. I helped edit that, pat on my own back. Anyway, but I thought it had some really great ideas about
cooperation and collaboration between the Board and the CEO senior leadership. And I would love to see
something like that put into place more so than it has been.
There has also been a distrust between some Board members and staff. I never understood why that
existed. But if the Board, this new Board, can get over that, I think it will be fantastic. I gave that book to
Mr. Ballard when he started. I think Mr. Ford has it now. I told Ms. Johnson that she should grab it
whenever it's up for grabs again. But I think there are some really good ideas that will also put RTD on the
forefront of policymaking and governance, just as we've been on the forefront of regional collaboration as
shown through FasTracks.
That's it. So looking forward to great things. I'm not going to be in tune that much, but I'll keep an ear
open because I will be a passenger again in April I hope. That's it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I have been, and continue to be, a big proponent of this idea. And I feel
like-- well, I'll move over again to the Accountability Committee. I attend all of those meetings and-there's somebody's cat. And when we get together as committees of the whole we have a structured
agenda. And I remember from the retreats we've had, we come up with these ideas, and we don't have
any place to put them to get fleshed out.
And so, for example, with the Accountability Committee, as I said before, they're going to be coming up
with ideas here in the near future around local service councils or subregional forums, around fares,
around passes, around ABA, around equity issues. And we don't have others, including more on staff, we
don't have a way to respond. And some of those issues are going to be governance issues. And we
approve changes in fares, changes in passes, all of those things.
And I just feel like if we're working as a team with our staff, with our CEO, in developing those ideas, first
of all, we'll get better ideas. You got more people thinking things through. And if we have a small group
that is getting deep into a subject, our finances are very complex. And I give Shelley Cook a ton of credit,
because she works them hard and she understands them. But I don't have as full a complete
understanding as she does. And if we have a committee that's working on that, then I think that's really
helpful.
For the Government Relations, Communications and Government Relations Committee, as we are now
it's sort of an update thing. But if we have whatever the number is, five people, for whom that is what they
really want to do, then we could be meeting, we could be working with Pauletta and her team. We could
be giving early feedback, communication plans, and legislative strategy. And we could be helping other
directors in engaging with their legislators and government officials.

And so I just feel like that I would-- pat on the back for you, Jeff, for editing the book. I haven't read it, but
all the pieces that Shelley and Doug provided I found to be right on target. And I just feel like we could be
a much more effective Board and a much more effective team with our CEO and staff if we're looking at
some of these issues in smaller committees. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow? Oh, you're muted. OK.
JUDY LUBOW: I know. It just has to be. Yeah, I am really excited by this whole process. I am hopeful that
we can use it very productively to make some productive changes. I was so excited by the idea of actually
having a committee look into Board performance and improve Board performance, and Board interaction
with staff and with the CEO. I think all of those areas could do with some work and make us more
effective. And it doesn't have to be anybody putting anybody down. It just has to be learning how-learning ways to work better together. And I love the-- I truly love the idea of these small committees, part
of their charge to actually work with staff jointly on projects to improve things.
And the example that was used in the reading was that a financial committee actually kind of redid what
the financial report looked like in a way that made it much more user friendly. So it's basically empowering
the Board instead of disempowering them. And saying, you've got good ideas, too. And pairing the Board
members with the appropriate staff members to work together.
I would love to see that at least as a pilot project for one committee. It just makes sense to try it. And see
if we kill each other or something wonderful happens. I would hope something wonderful would happen.
That's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I first want to thank Directors Cook and Tisdale for all the
work they put into this. And for me personally, it was great to have all these resources in one place. And
like Director Lubow, I really think that there are some great opportunities on how we can really work well
with our CEO and SLT. And it really helped me, and as we go forward with the GMOC and maybe map
out a little bit more definitive structure. So I just want to thank you guys for all the work you've put into it.
And my experience with a smaller committee really in our GMES search committee and the work that
Vice Chair Guissinger and I, as well as Chair Rivera-Malpiede, put into that, and really delved deep into
that. And I can see how that's going to be an effective way of getting things done. So that's all I had.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale, I see your hand up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think Director Cook's hand was up first if she would prefer
to go first. All right. Just to respond to Director Walker on the one specific question. The historical note, if
you look at page 89 of your packet, you will see an historical note. And that gives the history of how we
went from smaller committees to committees as a whole, give some of that background. It was in 2007.
And then there were some additional changes following the 2010 state audit, consisting of the state
auditor's request. But the one thing that was not changed at that time when those other changes were
made was to go to smaller committees, even though that was something that was mentioned by the state
auditor. So to give you some of the background, and that's what we're trying to do, is just give you all the
background so you have it. And you can then make a determination. And this discussion is very helpful in
that regard as well. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker?

JEFF WALKER: Thanks for that. As I'm winding down I haven't been as diligent about reading every
word. I wanted to clarify one thing. I wasn't the only one person who added that. There were several
people that Stackrow and Eadie gave this to to edit. So I wanted to make that point.
Director Menten mentioned something earlier, that this job can be difficult for folks who have other
obligations, like a day job and small kids, and stuff like that. So maybe, probably, one of the big benefits
that I think might come out of this is that it might free up time for people in that position who do have other
obligations to devote more energy and more focused energy on these committees.
I showed up a lot. I don't know how effective I was. I don't know how good of a job I did, because I was
stretched so thin sometimes. But I think having smaller committees where I don't have to wait for 10 other
people, or where nobody has to wait for 10 other people to say their piece, give their input, would be
beneficial to everybody on the committee. And everybody in the organization.
So once again, the thing that's held up, in my opinion, what we spend a whole lot of time talking about is
trust. If you got to build that up it will be fantastic. If not, you'll be back to where you were. And nobody
else would trust you, the agency, like the predicament we're in now with the Accountability Committee, if
we don't trust ourselves. So that's it. With that, I'll shut up for good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Well, not good. But thank you for those words.
JEFF WALKER: No, better.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would just like to say that I, too, really like the idea of smaller committees,
particularly after putting together several ad hoc committees this year. It taught me that we do develop
more relationship base and trust.
And the other part of it is, that we're all different people. We come from different walks of life, and we
have different interests and different skill sets. And it seems to me that, like Lynn is in government
relations. She could really hone in on that. She's got the contacts. She knows she has the skill set. And
that would build support the whole agency.
Shelley is in finance. I know that there are several new Board members who have written and said, you
know, I'm really interested in FasTracks. I'm really interested in this. And that's why we run for this Board,
because we have an interest in this agency, in the work that they do.
Mine its marketing and outreach, and diversity, and inclusion, and safety. But what I have found is that
the smaller committees, I'm getting to know the staff on a much different level. It does provide trust, and
they get to know us, and we get to know them. And then we can ask the questions and really deep into it,
and then bring it to the Board for more information.
But the other part of it is, any Board member can go to any of these committees if they want to. And so I
think it just opens up the door to communicating on a different level than in the whole. Because you're
right, Jeff, by the time we go through all the 15 Board members we've been in a meeting for eight hours.
And we do all have different things going on. So I really do support these smaller committees. I think they
can be very, very efficient for the agency.
So thank you. I don't see anybody else in the queue. Does anybody else have any comment?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: I see Jeff Walker's hand up. I don't know if it's still up, or whether-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No he said, he's done. Director Lewis, did I hear you?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You did. And Director Menten as well.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I know, but I'll go with you first. I've heard from Director Menten, so
maybe if you want to go ahead?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah sure, thank you, Madam Chair. I will submit this in writing and I know, Director
Tisdale and Director Cook asked a series of questions that I intend to answer. I do appreciate all the work
you've done, the research that you have done and the information that you've provided to us. It was very
thorough, for sure.
I think this conversation around trust and transparency is one that we probably shouldn't take lightly as a
Board. I think even in the historical context that Director Tisdale provided, that was maybe something that
was called out that some folks were feeling that they weren't included or not a part of conversations. And
so that's a concern for me as an individual Director that has maybe learned about some of the things that
are going on the Board a bit after the fact.
One of the things that I hope we prioritize if we decide to move in this direction is equity, inclusion,
diversity, and justice. And particularly as I was reading through this document, when asked about what
committees should remain, I hope we prioritize equity. I do find that oftentimes that's the first thing that
tends to go when restructures happen.
One of the opportunities I do think we have is, I don't think the current structure of this Board really
supports the smaller committees. And the reason I say that is because the Chair position, not the
individual, holds a lot of power as it is structured. And so I'm curious as to how we might decentralize
some of that power, and what that process might look like for the selection of the committee chairs and
co-chairs moving forward. As well as the executive committee if that process might remain the same.
I, of course, also have some concerns, which I think we can work through and figure out and talk about,
about the time of day in which these would be answered-- or these would take place. The examples that
we're given were 4:00 and 4:30. And I know this is not a recommendation of any sorts, but I think
sometimes those things do stick.
And so I just want to say for the sake of the record that I do hope-- I can support this if we do commit to
keeping these times at 5:30. While I know many directors and staff would prefer not to stay as late, I do
think we owe the general public access to these meetings. And 5:30 is sometimes even difficult to attend,
even on these virtual platforms.
And a number of us, as Director Walker pointed out, do work full time jobs. And so having these
committees to happen midday or early morning might dilute the amount of engagement and diversity and
experience that we might have if we offer these at times that are more accessible to more people.
I have a question around process, in terms of when actions are moved forward to the full Board, how
ideas from those who might not be on the Board might be incorporated into the process, into those
committees? And how that might be formally formalized.
And then finally, I do just want to go back to this conversation around trust and transparency, and what
process that we can put together proactively to make sure that the folks who may not be a part of the
committee do feel like that they have the information that they need. And that they're being updated
periodically. I know some things have slipped this year. And that is one reason that I'm kind of hesitant.
But I do think in terms of efficiencies that there are some to be had. And this is one way to approach it.
And what I've shared are how I'm happy to get to the point where I could support the restructuring of
committee. Those are all my comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: I wanted to speak on another new business item. So if there's anybody else who
wants to speak to the smaller committee issue, I'll let them go first.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm not seeing anyone else in the queue.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
BOB BROOM: This is Bob Broom. I subscribe to the smaller committee set up. And I think at some point,
we need to have a study session to either come up and decide that we're going to try the small
committees, or that we're not. Instead of just keep kicking this can down the road. We've been talking
about this for last off and on for the last four years. And we need to make a decision and move on. That's
my thought.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Duly noted, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Director Folksa.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anyone else?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folksa.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, hold on. First I have Director Guissinger, and then I have you, Director
Folksa. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: She can go. I spoke once, so I'm going to keep it short. But if Claudia wants to go
ahead, that's fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Folksa?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I'm wondering, have you all had deep conversations about the new
committee structure with staff whose time would have to be there, and if they're going to be interested in
staying late every night of the week, and so on? I mean, what is the impact to them?
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I speak?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's a really good question. And I think that Director Lewis's questions were
really good. And since I have been sort of a proponent, I've spent some time thinking [AUDIO OUT] OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ideally, this should take less time. It shouldn't take more staff time, it should take
less time for many people. Because the meeting shouldn't be weekly. I think the committees meet
monthly or every other month, depending on the committee, or quarterly, whatever. And it may be that if
there's a specific issue, sort of like an ad hoc committee, that they would add meetings. But hopefully it
wouldn't add more time.
And I think that Director Lewis's questions are all really good. What's the process, how do you keep the
Board updated? But I think it's sort of like the staff brings these things along the way now. And those are
good process questions to figure out. But I think that there are ways to do that. And as Jeff said, we
probably have longer Board meetings. But right now Board meetings tend to just sort of stamp what we've
already decided. And this would make our Board meetings the big meeting of the month. And we wouldn't
have the same length I think of all the other committees as we're moving forward.
So and I guess just one more thing, is I would like to see it not be a pilot of one committee. I think as Bob
said, we're ready to jump in. And being on the Safety and Security Committee, you mentioned the ad hoc
committee, that was sort of a pilot. And we were working with Mike Meader and Chief Grado and other

staff. And I felt like we were having some good constructive discussions. And so I'd like to see us take the
plunge and figure out some of these issues and give this a try.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. One of the things I'll say is that, some of the comments from
some of the Board elects said that we should commit to this at least for a year, and maybe do an
evaluation at three, six, nine and 12 months to see what's working and what's not working. But I agree. I
think if we're going to do it we should jump in.
Mrs. McManus and then Shelley?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I just want to share that we have a new General Manager. We went through a
very rigorous process of hiring that person. And we haven't really had-- we have heard some things from
her. But she is evaluating the agency right now. And I think that along with what the directors want to
bring forward with changing the committee structure, changing how long the meetings take, and what is
being brought forward to the Board of Directors, the delineation between management and governance is
a really important subject that needs to be approached right now.
And I look forward to everything that Debra Johnson brings forward in her experience to us, the Board of
Directors, and the agency. And we just should really think-- we just really should be open in how we're
thinking about things and how we move forward. We're thinking about doing some different things and
moving forward the retreat, and how we manage that. I'm not sure what that looks like right now. Debra
and I are looking at that, along with the Board Chair.
But I think we all have nothing but opportunity in front of us, and we would be remiss to not take it. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you much, and thanks, everybody for your comments and thoughts so far.
Regarding the question of engaging with Debra, Director Tisdale and I did have a good discussion with
her. And of course, that needs to happen going forward in terms of not just doing this out there without in
fact, the main focus and point of the book is that this is building power partnership between you and your
CEO.
And to the extent we have talked to Debra so far, one major point she made dovetails nicely with both the
book and what we are considering for our coming month or two. And that is making sure that your-- and
pardon me if I don't state this right, Debra, but making sure that your committees align with your mission
and vision.
And so Eadie talks about doing that at the get go. That's the hard work of setting the foundation. And to
the extent we think we want to move in this direction, it could mesh nicely with the work that we may take
up at the retreat. So I just wanted to add that. And thank everybody for all their comments. To And please
send more youre way-- this way, sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I do want you to know that I spoke with David Stackrow
today, who is the co-author of the book with Doug Eadie. And he's delighted that his book is being used
by us in exploring this opportunity. And I think it is as Mrs. McManus has said, too, an opportunity. And I
think it's incumbent upon us to review it very carefully and all the comments that we have received.
And we would like to get more comments. So please, if you have other thoughts and you don't have the
time or you're too tired at 9:00 at night to do those, share those with us, please. Because we're taking

them all into account. And then to Director Broom's point, yes the plan is to have a further session on this,
perhaps, as a separate study session to explore it in greater depth. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I see no one else in the queue. So is there any other new business to
come before this Board? OK. [AUDIO OUT] We do have an executive session-NATALIE MENTEN: Menten-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --pursuant for-NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry, Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [INTERPOSING VOICES].
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so while we are still in open question, I wanted to go over the state audit
process. So I believe I'm able to discuss that in this open meeting so that it is just for any of the new
Board directors who are coming in, showing them where we are at in the process. And that I can make
these comments here.
So as a refresher, the state auditor started this process with interviewing RTD Board directors, RTD staff
towards the beginning of this year 2020. I can't recall if it was February, we got notice maybe late January
and it proceeded from there. So this has been in the works quite a long time.
We went through interviews, as I stated. And then as for historical timeline, we got our first draft findings
from the state auditor on October, 26th. We then, the next I'm going right off date here. The next day, so
we had 24 hours to review it, we had an executive session with the state auditor to go over those findings
and have the Q&A session. After that Q&A session we were to submit questions or comments to Jenny
Page at the state auditor's department. And we were provided a format to do that.
And in a follow up email from Jenny Page the expectation that was given to us, the Board of Directors,
because I'm looking at this email right now sent to us, is that we would be-- we had until November 2nd to
provide those comments. And then the state auditor's department was going to send RTD a draft audit
report before Thanksgiving. And at that time we would have another opportunity to provide feedback on
the draft. Then this stated we'll ask for RTD's written draft responses in mid December.
Well, this started to bug me because I, in November, did not see any second document from the state
auditor's department. And last-- let's see, I'm looking at the calendar. On December 8th I started to inquire
a little more closely as to where was this follow up document? Because we were well past the
Thanksgiving timeline. So for this-- come to find out more information at last Thursday's Executive
Committee meeting-- and for my fellow Board Directors, and for the record, what occurred is RTD our was
sent that second document around Thanksgiving. And it appears by error, I'm hoping it was an error, that
was not provided to a majority of the Board.
Now since then, and since I started to raise these concerns, you all did get, I hope, an email directly from
Jenny Page last week that would have provided that second report. The other component here is that, as
I mentioned, we had a deadline of what was stated by state auditor as mid December or thereabouts
when she sent this in October, that in mid December we were to provide our initial responses to the state
auditor's report.

But what was discovered at last week's Executive Committee meeting is that, while we had not gotten the
second document from the state auditor, in the meantime, those who had seen it on the Board were
designated to provide responses to the state auditor. Now, that upset me quite a bit at last Thursday's
meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that's incorrect information, Director Menten. If I can, for the record,
Directors, for those of you who were not at the Executive Committee meeting this past Thursday, this
topic was discussed at length. And during that call, rather than repeat the conversation, I just want to take
a moment to clarify this. As we all know, as a state created entity, RTD is subject to periodic audit by the
Office of the State Auditor. And we are undergoing such an audit currently.
At this stage, the audit findings if any responses from RTD management must be kept confidential under
state law. We cannot discuss those things here in the public meeting. So I'm going to only discuss the
process question related to the draft audit findings in the report.
The Office of the State Auditor shared a draft of the audit findings via secure email to all Directors and
presented the draft audit findings to the Board during an Executive Session held in the October Board
meeting. The auditor's office invited feedback on the draft findings from each Board Director. Some
Directors submitted written responses through the Board Office, and others spoke with the audit office
directly in the weeks following that Board meeting.
On November 20th, the auditor's office submitted a draft of the audit report by multiple separate secure
emails. It wasn't until last week that we came to understand that not all of the Directors received an email
containing the draft audit report. I want to repeat that, because this is an important part. At the time I
received the email with the draft report I did not realize that the entire Board had not received an email at
that point in time. Because it always comes from Jenny directly to each Board member separately.
When it was discovered that not all the Directors had received that draft report staff requested that the
auditors office send that report to the entire Board, which they did on December 9th. So I'm happy to take
any additional questions and comments on the timeline. I just went over this, but I just want to make sure
that we hold off on any substantive discussion related to the audit findings or our responses until the
Executive Session that's scheduled next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so I'm not speaking to the findings specifically. What is of concern to me is the
process, and the process as it was laid out there is that there were two Board-- appears two Board
directors chosen. And by the way, this was not shared in the Executive Committee meeting. It was not
stated, I chose-- meaning somebody, chose two Board Directors to make a response on behalf of the
Board, or the agency. As we get-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No wait-NATALIE MENTEN: --into a later meeting-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, that's not correct information either. So I don't know where
you're hearing that from, but there has not been any response from the Board officially on the audit at all.
So there were Board members that submitted comments on issues that they wanted to do. And there
were all-- we talked about it at the Executive Committee.
And I knew that Board members were working on it. But it was individually as groups. So I would ask
them to go ahead and speak to that. But there has not ever been something put together--

NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --saying the Board's response.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair, we got a second document that shows the responses.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I-- say that again.
NATALIE MENTEN: As of last week when I raised the hoopla about this, we then got also the responses.
Because I asked at last Thursday's meeting, I said, OK, three of us have requested this Executive
Session that we're having tonight. Because of these issues. Because we didn't have any meeting as a
Board about it. And there were two documents that-- so yes, Jenny Page sent all of us the document that
had been sent approximately November 20th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: But then there was also a response document. And it goes through, and I'm not
going to-- I can't comment on the responses. But that document exists because-- and I don't even know
who sent it without me doing my search. But we got the responses. So the responses were submitted by
two Board Directors. And then it went through the staff, and it was sent off to the state auditor. But we, a
majority of the Board, never even had a chance to look at that. It was only because I raised a ruckus,
frankly, and a couple other Board Directors did.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, OK. Let me kind of go through the line. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you very much. And thanks for the chance to clarify. So in open session, I
believe it was at last month's Executive Committee, but it may have been a GMOC. I need to go back and
double check that. But you did ask both First Vice Chair Director Catlin and myself to be point people on
internal audit issues. Because the point had been made that part of the response would need to be
cooperative with the Board cooperating with the staff, as I recall.
What Director Catlin and I have done-- you can weigh in on this, Peggy. But what we did was we put
together some thoughts and gave them to staff. And the staff revised those, and ultimately those revisions
are what you see in front of you. So again, we, Peggy and I, put together some thoughts for the
responses on recommendation number four. Worked as well with DIrector Guissinger on recommendation
number five, and then submitted those to the staff who then did their own work and revised them, quite
frankly. And that's what was submitted.
So anyway, just to clarify those two pieces. I would add this. I had seen mention that the state auditor had
laid out a process that would include, perhaps, the Chair working with the staff to come up with
responses. And what Director, or Chair Rivera-Malpiede did was actually more inclusive. It pulled in the
Board members, as well as the thoughts that we had, or that you, other Board members, had submitted.
I didn't realize either that the state auditors had not meant for other people had-- I assumed she meant for
just the narrower group of people to be involved. And as you know they really stress the confidentiality.
So I accepted that and didn't question whether or not we should bring it to the Board. And to the extent
that was an oversight, it probably was, I apologize for that. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just to confirm, because I think some of this may
be confusing, because we're not using dates all the time and stuff. There was an initial audit report draft
that was submitted to all of the Board members on October 26th. There was then, to all of the Board
members, a what was presumed to be second draft that was submitted on December the 8th of this year.

At the Executive Committee meeting, I asked the question-- and the minutes are not available yet. I've
looked, and the full transcript isn't there. But I asked a question, was there a draft between October 26th
and December the 8th? And the answer that I received was no, there was not. And Director, Secretary
Buzek was pretty adamant about that, in fact. Because there was an extended warm discussion relative
to this whole thing. And it was stated that there wasn't.
Well, it turns out there was apparently one that was sent on November 20th to some people. And I think
my only concern-- and I don't necessarily join in any of the concerns that have been raised by Director
Menten-- but my only concern is just simply to make sure that we get the record straight and we tell
people what happened. And as I understand it, at some point, the Chair did ask Directors Cook and Catlin
to look at that and to work with staff on creating some responses.
So I think as best we know it from the record, that we had the original draft October 26th, had a meeting, I
think October 27, 28. Then apparently there was this interim draft of November 20 that only some people
saw. And apparently maybe only three or four Directors actually saw. And then there was the later draft
that came out December 8, I think it was December December 8 or 9. And then there was the Executive
Committee on December 10 where this was all discussed.
And I think the record got a little muddled. And I think it's just worthwhile to do that, to clear it up and give
people an opportunity to understand exactly what did happen. And that's all I have. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. It seems to me from just listening tonight, and also speaking to Natalie a few
days ago about this, that the problem stems, in my opinion, from the auditor's office only sending the
second in between draft to a select group of people. And those people didn't know that they got it and
other Board members did not. And so it seems like that was an error. That was a procedural error. And
everything stems from that.
It doesn't seem to me like there was an intent to pass people over. People didn't know that other people
didn't even get it. That was the real problem. And so and I see it now as we need more clarity. But also, I
would think we need more clarity about these responses in terms of, when it is time for the Chair to
assign people to write something. Are we all finished with our joint responses? Are we ready to have it
summarized or whatever. So I think it could be tightened in that area. But my sense is that this problem
stemmed from a problem on the part of the auditor. That's my take.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Folska. Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus and then Director Cook.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you for letting me speak up front to the other Directors. There is a
communication lapse here. There were a lot of communications that came from the auditor's department,
where a lot of the Directors were blind copied. I was copied on it. I was assuming that a lot of the
Directors were being copied on it.
At the same time, there were myself and Doug McLeod that were copied on a couple of other
transmissions that we didn't really know who was being blind copied on it. So there's no one at fault here.
It's all communications quagmire that we have to figure out. Not only with RTD, but with the state auditor.
So that everybody knows who is being communicated to with what version, what those versions look like,
and what we need to do with that in response.

There's no right or wrong here. No one was trying to leave someone out of the mix, or bring someone into
the mix. We were just trying to move forward in the process. And it shows us right now that we need to
fine tune what that looks like. We need to work with the state auditors to know who they are
communicating with. What versions are out there with Directors and/or staff, and how we respond to
those. Because communication is the key to everything.
And right now we're looking at a process that did not work really well. The state auditor, as well as the
internal RTD staff, was not inclusive with everybody. But no one knew who got what communications,
why, and when. And that is never a good combination. So I think there's a big learning opportunity here
for everybody.
I worked with the tail end of the 2010 audit with the state. And of course, the end is always great because
you've already learned from your opportunities. But right now, everybody is feeling like they're left out. But
they weren't because most people are realizing that everybody was included, but they weren't included in
all of the opportunities moving forward.
So that's all I have to say. I mean, it's all about communication. And so it's about communication. And we
have to be better at it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska-SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead. Hold on, Director Lewis. I think I heard Director Folska first.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No problem.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. You know, it's very surprising to me that with
the sophistication of RTD's staff and Board, and the state legislature, that this sort of lapse in
communication. And I have to disagree with respect to you, Ms. McManus. No, there there was a terrible
lapse of communication. Because as Director Tisdale quite rightly said, all Board members have been in
this process. And I believe because all Board members have been in this process that expectation was to
carry through.
And the fact of the matter is, that no one who-- the folks who were excluded from the second draft that
came out on November 20, didn't have the same time to look at the draft, review the draft, compare it to
other things that were mentioned in the draft, and really mull it over in the time that other folks did have.
And so luckily, Director Guissinger suggested we get an extension of two days instead of one day, so 48
hours. But we only received it December 9th. Thank you, Director Menten for that.
Because if she hadn't done something we would still be in the dark. And the other fact of the matter is,
nobody on the Board got to see those responses before they were submitted on our behalf. As we've
been all together working on this as a group, and that's such a surprise to me. And it's deeply troubling.
And the Board as a whole had no idea that Director Cook and Director Catlin were designated to make
that response on our behalf. And we didn't have an opportunity, even if they had, and I don't think there
would be any real objection to it. But even if they had, I would expect to have seen their response, and
maybe other people on the Board would have liked to make it a contribution.
And their responses and staffs are probably quite fine. But maybe somebody else on the Board would
have a different opinion or a different historical perspective because of the time they've been on the

Board. It seems like Director Walker may have been here for the 2010 audit and could reflect on that. And
so the richness of the variety of opinions of folks on this Board have been left out.
Now, saying all of that, we have two days to include everybody's thoughts if they haven't already been
memorialized. But that's where it is. And I think for me, having people speak without even my knowledge
and consent about what's going to be going on.
And finally, just for the record y'all, sadly it did come to me in an illegible format that is a digital image,
which are not legible. So I was even left out of it yet again. And I will say after all these years-- and I do
appreciate the eye opening conversations that we've had over the years-- that still, the technology in the
boardroom is not accessible to me. Halfway it is, but other ways it's not. And so I've sat there over eight
years in every meeting without any information in front of me other than my memory.
So with that being said, I hope that we can move forward in a productive manner. But that these kinds of
things shouldn't occur in the future.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska, I really appreciate your comments, because I agree with
you. I think that there was just a lack of communication. And there were just a variety of things that
happened that were unprecedented. And if you remember at the beginning of the year when we all were
being interviewed by the auditor, I learned later that those people all left the auditing department and they
were starting over. I mean, it's just been one thing after another.
But one of the things that happened was as the Chair, I received the first audit draft. And I was-- I did not
want to have it alone. So I asked the auditor that I wanted to give it to the Executive Committee and the
Board of Directors. And so she got it out to them. And I really was doing it in the spirit of transparency and
inclusiveness for the whole Board to take a look at the audit. That it shouldn't just be the Chairman of the
Board, but that this was a collective issue for the entire RTD Board of Directors.
So it was really done from that point. And when she sent it out privately to each person and you had to go
through that process, I assumed that it had been done again. So my bad not checking to make sure it did,
but that was my assumption. And it was at the Executive Committee talking about the audit that I asked
Lynn and Peggy, I mean, that I asked Peggy and Shelley to take a look at the audit components, since
Shelley was the finance person. And she might look at it in a way that I could learn from, in that I could
just look at it. But I never looked at it as being the response from the RTD Board of Directors.
And I did have a meeting with the Auditor Committee and the staff. And when I was asked-- and that was
on December 3rd-- what the RTD's response was, I said we didn't have one. We were still working on our
response. I never said to the auditors that here is the RTD Board of Directors' response to these two
components that they were looking at.
So my apologies if everybody thought that I was trying to keep something away from them. Because that
clearly was not what I was doing. And I really did think that everything would be open, especially since we
had an Executive Session with the auditor, and that she asked for comments. And then I knew that we did
receive some comments from four Board members. And then additionally, she received, there were
phone calls between some Board members and the auditor.
So I kind of felt like we were on a road in terms of being communicative with the auditor directly. So,
lesson learned for me, for sure. But it was not done in a nefarious manner. So I just want to say that.
Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

I just want to point out, in light of our earlier discussions about small committees, that this is sort of a
small committee situation. And this is the problem that was brought up about trust and people feeling left
out. And we want to look at this when we do our homework on small committees. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, and Director Lewis, I apologize. I don't see you on here, that's
why I didn't see your hand. Please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's totally OK. I'm on the phone. I actually would like to say something similar to
Director Williams, but I would offer the opportunity that we have here. I think one of the things I learned
early this year was how, when we communicate as individual Board members, even if we sign as
individual Board members, that can be interpreted as speaking on behalf of the Board.
And I recall a letter written to the Governor regarding rear door boarding and social distancing. And there
was concern from other Board members that I might be speaking on behalf of the Board. And certainly
that wasn't my intention. And what I hear in this conversation is something quite similar. Is that because
we lack that trust and transparency, is that we don't assume positive intent. While also understanding the
impact that we have to other Board members. The feelings of being left out, these conversations of
distrust, et cetera.
And one of the things that I spoke about in the committee structures as an opportunity, is a process in
how we might arrive to decisions or how we might communicate out those decisions. And I don't know if
we have one. And I recognize that we have a lot of irons in the fire. And I can imagine the amount of work
that you put in here individually, and many of the Executive Committee members, the work that they put
in and how things can be lost. And not seen as a priority. Not by intention, but just simply based on
capacity and bandwidth.
And I do think there is an opportunity for all of us, for all of us to figure out if we don't have the trust
between Board members, is there a process that we might be able to follow when we believe that maybe
some of these decisions might be better served in smaller committees with fewer decision makers? If
there's a process that we all agree to, and we and we stick to when we're making decisions as the Chair,
of Co-chairs, or as an entire Board.
One of the things that we do in the work that I do in my full time job is, we always put together after action
review. And really this is just to talk about where are the opportunities, what were the challenges, what
did we learn from this? What can we change in our processes in order to improve them? And maybe this
will get us closer. Especially because we can't actually meet in person as Board members to get closer to
that trust and transparency and create a transparent process as well.
I just wanted to add-- I just wanted to lend my voice and add that as an opportunity for us to grow as a
Board collectively. And how we accept our intentions, but understand the impact, and figure out how we
grow from that. And put processes in place that we can utilize to protect us from these communication
errors and inefficiencies. So that's what I would like to share. I appreciate you, Chair, and your apology.
And you walking us through this process. Because I do think it's an important one. But I think it's a larger
conversation that we have to have as a Board, albeit, maybe a difficult one, but necessary one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what, Director Lewis, I want to really thank you for those words. I
think that very poignant and I really appreciate what you just said. Because I think you just hit the nail on
the head. So, thank you. Director Lubow, I see you on the queue again.
JUDY LUBOW: Nope I just must have left my hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You Did.

JUDY LUBOW: Sorry, I'll take it down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McMan? OK. Mr. Walker? I thought you said you were done?
JEFF WALKER: You know me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
JEFF WALKER: So, I think one of the ways to overcome this is kind of what we talked about on the
committee structure. I think we exemplified it on the Search Committee, and what I've told Mr. Tisdale,
and Mr. Dishell, who Director left, Mr. Dishell, Lewis and others I talked to, I said you got to pick up that
phone and work that phone. Just like the old days, like my parents used to when they were working on
some campaign. And you can ask Tisdale about that, because when I was on the Search Committee I
talked his ear off all the time, a couple of times a week, telling him what was going on.
So if you do move to small committees, and like I said, I think it's a good idea. A number of committees
are then going to change. The length of time that goes to those committees should change. But soon as
that meeting is done or the next day you pick up that phone and call, you have a buddy, or two buddies.
That's probably something that would have benefited this. It's water under the bridge, lesson learned. I
don't think anything nefarious went on, or egregious. I think there was a mistake, and mistakes happen.
But to avoid those mistakes, that's probably the way to go. Because I call a couple folks all the time.
Probably too much if you ask them. But anyway, so that's my two cents.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. FIrst Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I, like Director Cook, was responding as an individual Director. And part of
this is because even before the state auditor called up for interviews, I had been looking at some things
and even-- had just been asking a lot of questions. And so I have also responded to the state auditor in
my previous roll at CDOT, and I've also responded to the legislative Audit Committee and presented them
a number of times. And never in my role at CDOT did I respond on behalf of CDOT. I was always
responding at a request of the state, the individual auditor who was asking the question.
So I apologize if-- and I did not realize that the other Directors didn't get it. But I took it seriously and
provided by written responses, and then even followed up with some oral conversations with the state
auditor for clarification. So I just took my responsibility in responding to the state auditor's finding
seriously. And so I was just acting in that capacity. But I did not realize that the whole Board of Directors
did not receive subsequent communication, and I apologize for that. I didn't really even look because it
was-- they were sent to individual Directors. So I was responding to that just-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Folska.
PEGGY CATLIN: I wanted to apologize, too-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry, I thought you were done.
PEGGY CATLIN: --that did not know that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Go ahead, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Catlin, I really appreciate your response. I think
the difference here, and it's not a minor difference though, is that the responses that you and Director
Cook made you shared with staff, and then compiled it, and sent it back by the deadline on December
8th. And meanwhile, this Board didn't receive the document until after 5:00 PM on December 9th. And
with that, I'll leave it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, I do not see anyone else in the queue. So what I'd like to do
is now go into Executive Session since we have one. It's a quarter to 10:00 So pursuant to 24-6 from 2(4),

all right Executive Session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)CCRS, for the matters required to be kept confidential
by federal or state law, or rules and regulations and 2-3-103(2), 2-3-103.7(1)CRS, regarding
confidentiality of the audit reports and recommendations for discussion of the draft audit findings by the
Office of the State auditor related to the 20201/2021 performance audit, pursuant to 24-6-402(4)F(L)CRS
for consideration of related personnel matters. And pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(V)CRS for conferences with
an attorney for the purpose of receiving legal advice regarding the same.
I will now entertain a motion to move into Executive Session.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved, Director Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do you have a second? I'm sorry I have Director Folska as the movant?
And who had the second?
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Director Tisdale.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, I'll do Director Lewis as the second. OK, Now I got to find my right
papers. So give me a moment. All right, I'll note for the record and for the public that the Board will not
conduct any additional business-MELANIE SNYDER: Excuse me, pardon me-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --following the conclusion of the Executive Session-MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, it's Melanie Snyder. So we have a motion and a second. Can we have a
discussion and vote on that? We do need 10 votes to go into Executive Session.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh I'm sorry. All in favor-- and what I'm going to do is go through the list just
to make sure. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska? I'll come back to her. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director menten
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am a yes. Director Folska, are you on the line?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, it's Melanie Snyder again. It looks like Director Folska is not on the
line anymore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So we have 14 yeses, and we are going to move into Executive
Session. So let me just note for the record and for the public that the Board will not conduct any additional
business following the conclusion of the Executive Session. Would all those entitled to participate in the
executive session please, move into the other meeting instance at this time.
There should be no additional link on your meeting to get to. So I see all of you there. Thank you.

