2023-03-08
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
KATE WILLIAMS: -Good evening, and welcome to the Operations and Safety Committee meeting. And I'm Kate Williams,
and I will now call this meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM promptly. I would respectfully
ask that everyone attending this meeting please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the-- are you turning on my video? Apologize. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as feasible on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com.
And a livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate they would like to speak by pressing Star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press Star
6. I would now like to call the role for the committee members. I think I can do that myself. Director
Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom? I do not see Director Broom in the room. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I am Kate Williams, and I am here. I'd like to note for the record that we are joined
this evening by Director Catlin, Director Tisdale, Director Guzman, and I don't see any other directors.
OK. We are also joined by a number of our eminently qualified RTD staff, just for the record.
I'd now like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the public meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your phone.

Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. Again, if you are dialed in, press Star 6 to toggle your
mute settings.
Please bear in mind that participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments should be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for this committee or if any member of the public would like to submit written
comments, please email those materials to the Board office at the following email address,
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During the public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors of staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their name, and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Our first speaker-- staff, do we have any speakers in the queue?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: We have two in the queue right now. The first speaker is Scott Ramming.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ramming, you're up.
AUDIENCE: OK. Are you able to hear me yet?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am able to hear you now.
AUDIENCE: OK. I don't see my face on yet, but I will go. I'm Dr. Michael Scott Ramming, a resident of
District C near the 30th and Downing light rail station. And my comment is about the current service
change process, which I'm really frustrated in this and trying to control my emotions, but please pardon
me if I don't manage to keep them in check.
I had intended to attend one of the three virtual public meetings that were hosted on MS Teams back in
February. When I joined on the first day with my iPhone-- and granted, it's not the latest model, but I'm
still paying it off-- I got a message that I had entered an invalid link. And I copied it, pasted it, doublechecked the password, even called the Information Center, and they weren't able to diagnose it either.
So I just resolved to try again the following day when I'd be working at home and have access to my
laptop as well, except returning from a doctor's appointment, that was the day of a snowstorm and I
wound up waiting over 50 minutes for an E Line that were apparently bunched up with a similar number of
H Lines behind the Louisiana Pearl Station. So I wasn't able to get home. Part of that was even after
switching to take the R Line to the A Line, the transfers at Peoria Station appear to be designed to
maximize transfer waiting time rather than minimizing it.
So since I wasn't able to participate, I did realize that there was the opportunity to email comments. I
wouldn't be able to have any of my questions answered. I did notice that I-- Friday deadline and spent
Thursday evening emailing those comments. There were six total. However, in the summary from
tonight's packet, I definitely don't see five of those six, and I have no way of knowing whether I'm one of
the 12 customers who support combining routes 34 and 38, or if perhaps I'm the 13th, which is just part of
the summary.
My support for that combination isn't completely unconditional, or it's qualified because I do have a
concern that it puts more service on the California and Stout couplet. It would be six buses an hour during
peak and midday versus the four E Line trains per hour nearby on Welton Street. My email had
suggestions for spreading out that service, but I don't even know if that was received.

So you can understand [LAUGHS] my frustration. Maybe I've had bad luck with tech. I use it for work, but
am no means an IT professional. And I can-- flexing my privilege, but if I'm having difficulty participating in
your virtual public meetings, I just wonder how much more would people who either aren't as familiar with
tech, have less flexible work schedules, have less faith in their ability to access and influence the system.
And I think that you should actually be more concerned about the low amount of public participation rather
than relieved that, oh, there's only two comments tonight. There-- must mean people are pretty happy. So
thank you for your time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Do we have other speakers in the queue, Jillian?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Next up, we have Richard Bamber.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Bamber, you have three minutes.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good evening, everybody. I also would like to speak on the service change
process, and I share many of the concerns the previous speaker Dr. Ramming does have. For this round
of the process, I attended all three public meetings. At one of them I spoke, and it was, again, on the
merging of 34 and 38, which in general we support.
That said, we made a comment that this route would be much more useful if it served Union Station. And
some of you might have seen a map that's been circulated where we explain that in detail. An email was
also sent to the service change team on February the 3rd.
We are-- in the same way as the previous speaker, I'm concerned in the way the comments are
summarized. This is on page 66 of your Board briefing packets. It says 12 comments were submitted in
support of-- and it just says support the merge of these two routes.
Now in addition to my comments, I'm aware of four other emails that were in support of the merge and in
support of the Union Station detour as well, which means at least five of the 12 comments were in support
of this amendment to Union Station. And yet, it does not appear on the comment summary, OK?
The other question I have is when comments come in, we never know what happens to them. For
example, a comment I didn't submit and I don't necessarily endorse is add a bus stop at Colfax Avenue
and the [INAUDIBLE] 15L. It's been submitted. What happens to that comment? Where are those four
comments? Where can we read them? Where can we read the response? Where can we see the
tracking? There is absolutely very little transparency there.
The other one that kind of almost is starting to scare us nowadays is when we read schedule
adjustments. What does that mean? Because last time it got the A line to the R Line people. Will it blow
my connection up? We absolutely wonder.
So you know, when the public comments phase of the service changes, there should be a scheduled
pack. And it might be 100 pages long and it might be only a few of us look at it, but the transparency will
be there.
But my overall view is many people, we see the bus network in particular as inefficient, difficult to
understand, difficult to use, and has not had a major update in decades, OK? This process has been
running for longer than I'm sure most of the current Board staff. Certainly longer than the current CEO

who's been in place. I think it's probably now time to take a look at it and give it a big overhaul so it
actually does what it's intended to do. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Jillian, do we have other speakers?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: There are no other speakers, and we submitted four emails to be added to
the transcripts.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. We appreciate that. With no other participants in the queue, we will now
close the public comment period. There is no information from external entities this month, so we're going
to go directly to recommended actions. Oh, let me note for the record that Director Broom has joined the
meeting, and I also see Director Guissinger. Did I miss anybody that I ought to have recognized? OK.
Hopefully, we have everybody.
There are three recommended actions on our agenda this evening. The first action is the Access-a-Ride
and FlexRide service contracts for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or
her designee to enter into contracts with MTM Transit, Transdev Services Inc., Transdev on Demand, and
Via Mobility Services for the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services. These contracts are for
three years with two one-year options for a total of five years at a total not to exceed cost of
$296,433,073.
Additionally, RTD will reimburse the contractors' direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
$27,006,014 over five years. The total five-year not-to-exceed cost for Access-a-Ride and FlexRide
services and fuel is $323,439,087. Do we have a motion? OK.
TROY L. WHITMORE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sloan, but you can have it.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, that's fine.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll take Sloan. I can spell it. It's shorter. I would like-MARJORIE SLOAN: And I don't know if this is appropriate as part of a second, but I note that we just
received an email concerning this matter on the agenda. And it's difficult to read the email and to have a
considered discussion at the same time, so maybe the email could be summarized in part of the
presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: So Director Sloan, if you would like to read that, I'm going to ask Mr. Ford, our Chief
Operations Officer, and Paul Hamilton, the Director of Paratransit Services, to give us some information. I
do not have a separate screen to read the email, but when we are finished with the presentation, it comes
to discussion, if you would like to read that into the record, I would be fine with that. OK. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. And I am presenting
information related to the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide contract renewal and award recommendations.
Just for context, Access-a-Ride is RTD's federally mandated paratransit service complying with the

Americans with Disabilities Act, known as the ADA. FlexRide is RTD's demand response of micro transit
service provided in 23 service areas within the district, allowing for first and last mile connections to fixed
route and to essential locations within each service area to provide access to essential goods and
services.
100% of the FlexRide work is performed using accessible vehicles owned by RTD. 90% of the Access-aRide contract services are performed using accessible vehicles also or-- also owned by RTD. The
remaining 10% of the Access-a-Ride services are provided through one contract using multiple taxi
vendors.
Access-a-Ride's services comprise approximately 70% of the service provided to paratransit customers
with the remaining 30% provided by Access-on-Demand service providers. Access-on-Demand service
agreements were separately awarded in November, this past November, are not part of this
recommended action, so I just wanted to emphasize that. Contracts for both Access-a-Ride and FlexRide
in June 30 of this year.
This past December, RTD issued a request for a proposal competitive procurement to provide technical
and price proposals for six packages. Four service packages for Access-a-Ride were available as two
25% service packages, one 40% service package, and one 10% service package. Two service packages
for FlexRide were also available as two 50% service packages.
After a one-month open solicitation period, proposals were received from six vendors. A panel of subject
matter experts reviewed all proposals ranking each using objective criteria, including service approach,
technical staff expertise, and costs. An additional pass-fail review was conducted to assure
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise, known as DBE participation.
Based on the scoring criteria, the panel is making the following recommendations to award three of the-to award three of the six companies, first being Transdev for 65% of the dedicated and 10% of the
nondedicated Access-a-Ride service, three packages. MTM for 25% of the dedicated Access-a-Ride
service, one service package. And finally, Via for 100% of the FlexRide services, two service packages.
So at this time, I'm happy to take questions. And I would invite Paul Hamilton, our Director of Paratransit
Services, to join me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I see Director Rosenthal and Director Sloan. I'm going to let
Director Sloan go first, Director Rosenthal. And Director Sloan, if you want to speak to the email that you
referenced, now would be the time.
MARJORIE SLOAN: It is, because I realized that I was not clear when I was speaking before. But this
email has come from John McKay in the GM CEO's office. It's quite lengthy, and it has provided some
background on questions that were raised earlier today. And because it's difficult to read and participate
at the same time, I was hoping, and I see our great GM CEO has her hand up, and maybe she can
resolve my dilemma here. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. Johnson, you have the floor. I'm sorry, Director Rosenthal. Hang in there.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, thank you very much, Director Sloan, and thank you, Chair Williams. I wanted to
point out that John McKay sent a communique out on my behalf, recognizing that we've been in meetings
all day long. And I just saw that email just a little while ago and had staff compile information.

I do want to acknowledge the Dana Steele is on the line. She serves as our Director of Contracts and
Procurement and can address more specifically, instead of reading the email, the process relative to
solicitation.
So I wanted to offer that up, as I did receive inquiries from Director Ruscha relative to the procurement
process and what might be available, recognizing what staff has asked, which is to authorize, via my
capacity as the General Manager and CEO, to enter a contract. And just wanted to take the opportunity to
provide greater information.
So Madam Chair, if you would indulge, we can have Ms. Steele sort of summarize that information if that
would be advantageous. So I just wanted to acknowledge Ms. Steele and her involvement with this
process and her role here at the organization.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you for that input. Dr. Rosenthal, can you wait, or does your question need
to go first?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Most certainly can wait. I'd love to hear from Ms. Steele. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, as I think we all would. Dana Steele, you have the floor if you want to talk, or do
you want to just wait and answer questions as they arise?
DANA STEELE: Good evening. This is Dana Steel, Director of Contracting and Procurement. I'm happy
to answer questions or proceed, Director Williams, in whichever way you prefer. I can summarize the
email or I can wait and respond to questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Why don't you give us a brief overview, and then we will have some more questions?
DANA STEELE: OK. And to be clear, the overview of the procurement process generally of this particular
solicitation?
KATE WILLIAMS: My understanding is that we have policies that apply across the Board, and that they
would have been applied to this solicitation, as they are to all. So at the moment, let us speak in general
terms.
DANA STEELE: OK. Thank you for the clarification. Yes, this solicitation was put out on the street in
accordance with RTD's standard practices and our procurement standard manual policies. As such, we
convened an evaluation panel to review the proposals that were submitted to this solicitation that were
deemed responsive as a threshold analysis.
That panel performed a technical review of all of the proposals, submitting their scoring and
recommendations. That process was overseen by RTD's most senior purchasing agent, who does not
perform a scoring, but ensures the integrity of that process.
After the technical proposals were scored, the purchasing agent then provides the cost in information. So
the cost information is held back during the technical proposal so as not to potentially influence the
evaluation of the technical proposals on their merits. The cost is then tabulated into the evaluation
scoring. The purchasing agent then comes up with a final score, and recommendations are made to the
requesting department. In this case, the Paratransit Department. But I'm happy to try to answer any more
detailed questions.

KATE WILLIAMS: No, I think that was a well-spoken overview, and now I will allow questions. And stick
around for a bit. You may need to answer some more. You might want to mute yourself in the meantime,
however. Director Rosenthal, the most patient fellow, you're up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: [LAUGHS] I'm patient sometimes. Thank you, Madam Chair. So hopefully, this is an
appropriate question, but who actually is on that panel? And if you can't say names of individuals, is it like
people who report to senior management? Does it include senior management? So maybe individuals or
levels of individuals.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Thank you, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, that panel comprises two Paratransit staff, one Paratransit-eligible staff and
maintenance, one in FlexRide, one from the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise as well, and a
procurement person.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Ford. And then my next question is in terms of the amount, is it more
than the last contract, less, about the same? Are we-- yeah, so let's start there.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think whoever wants to take that. Mr. Ford, Ms. Steele, Mr. Hamilton?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, Michael Ford, the Chief Operating-- I would probably defer to Mr.
Hamilton on that question.
PAUL HAMILTON: And I don't know if she would have this information available. This is Paul Hamilton,
Senior Manager of Paratransit Services. But the ICE that we would have provided or the Independent
Cost Estimate would have established what we saw as a trend for increase, and we absolutely saw an
increase in costs in large part, even during the six-month extension that we're now under, due to labor
cost increases. But I could not recite for you exactly what that cost is. Dana might have that information
available, and we could certainly, if not, get that information for you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then one final one is, are we actually getting any increase in service with the
increase in how much we're paying, or is it just about the same amount of service that we're going to get,
and it's just it's going to cost more?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, Michael Ford, Chief Operations-KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Ford. Go ahead.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I would also like to have Paul Hamilton weigh in on that question, please.
PAUL HAMILTON: Certainly. In that case, there actually is a slight decrease from our current or past
contract and Access-a-Ride services. It's about the same for FlexRide as it was before, but the Access-aRide services have seen a decrease in the provision of service due to the increase in demand for Accesson-Demand. It's one of the reasons that COO Michael Ford mentioned, the fact that we now see close to

30% of all trip demand for our Paratransit customers coming from the utilization of our four vendors that
were approved in November of last year for Access-on-Demand.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. I think that's good news. OK. I think also Director Ruscha has been very patient.
Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for being patient while I found the Mute button.
Unmute. So I just wanted to clarify about the panel that was convened. I think this is for-- for whomever
can answer, that the panel was convened of staff, but there was nobody from our Paratransit Advisory
Committee part of that process. And is that something-- is that how we traditionally execute these
contracts? So I guess that's a two-part question, clarification and follow-up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, Madam Chair, we are utilizing our subject matter experts as part of this process,
so they would normally be involved in these type of arrangements. We have used folks from other of the
Paratransit groups for other types of evaluations, for lack of better words. But this was left to staff who are
very competent in this area to address issues of this nature.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Ruscha, was there more to your question, or another question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I see Dana Steele, you have your hand up. And Debra Johnson-- oh, hand up, hand
down. Whoo! OK. I'm paying attention. Go ahead, Ms. Steele.
DANA STEELE: This is Dana Steele, Director of Contracting and Procurement. I believe there's no
outstanding question, so maybe I was premature in raising my hand. If there's any follow-up you would
like on that selection process, I'm happy to try to provide that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Stand by. I see Chair Guissinger has her hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. You know, I followed this process a little bit,
and I know that you reached a different conclusion in September. And as I understand it, told the parties
that they would be getting the contract.
And in particular, Via, which has been providing 25% of the services for years-- it is a Boulder-located
nonprofit, but they provide services throughout Denver and Adams County and other places as well, I
think, and were awarded the contract in September. And then I guess MV appealed and they were not
given the contract for Access-a-Ride in February, and I'm just wondering what changed.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, Michael Ford.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, just in terms of that, obviously we did have a protest. We decided to rebid this
contract and solicit new proposals through the work of the evaluation committee. There was different
pieces of work, as I mentioned before, that was submitted. And it's the responsibility of the proposals to
address the type of work and the scope of work that we've put out for a response.

And the committee made a determination of what services were best addressed based on the scoring
and the criteria that we talked about earlier. So I imagine the change happened and the responsiveness
of their proposals. I would also defer to Mr. Hamilton to elaborate any more than I've just stated.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Hamilton?
PAUL HAMILTON: Certainly. Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit Services. The only major
thing that changed between the first instance of the RFP and the second was that we had additional
proposers. And given that we have a competitive procurement process, we obviously had additional
proposals to look through.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, do we consider in the process our strategic goal of community value for a
company, a nonprofit that has stepped up? The Senior Resource Center pulled out its Paratransit, and
DRCOG was looking around and I think having a hard time finding someone. Via stepped up, and they've
done that repeatedly. And you know, I followed up with them, and I think they're ready to step up if things
go wrong with this contract. But it seems to me like that would be a valid criterion. Is that something we
consider?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Ford?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Actually, I'll ask another half of that, which is they're also electrifying and doing a
good job of it. Do we consider sustainability as one of our criteria? Because it might be something that we
should think about if we don't. Both of those.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Go ahead, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: No, we-- I mentioned the criteria that was used from the technical to the other areas
that we mentioned previously. We probably did not look at the sustainability as part of that criteria, as I
mentioned, and maybe that's something we can look at for the future. Mr. Hamilton, did you have
anything else to add to that?
PAUL HAMILTON: I did not.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What about the other-- the community value?
PAUL HAMILTON: If I may-- Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit Services. To that point, there
were many technical components that were part of the scoring criteria, but there wasn't anything specific,
Director Guissinger, to the point that you were making of saying, are they making efforts within the
community, or are they a nonprofit? Or any of the other things you mentioned, which are certainly
valuable to the community, those weren't part of the scoring criteria.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's it for right now. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Ruscha?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a follow-up regarding the contracts. It sounds
like these contracts-- well, can I get clarification? Are they written or not written yet? And what I see in this
email to the Board that arrived after the meeting started is that, quote, "both winning and nonwinning
contract proposals are only subject to open records review once the contract is executed," unquote. I am
not familiar with government agencies that have oversight bodies that don't vote on contracts or can't see
them, so I would just like to get a better understanding of what information is and is not available to the
Board before we vote to authorize over $300 million.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: I would defer to Dana Steele. Maybe you could help with that question and elaborate.
DANA STEELE: Yes, this is Dana Steele, Director of Contracting and Procurement. And I'm happy to try
to answer that. I may have to backtrack a little bit to make sure I'm clear on the question.
But what we do is as part of the solicitation, we publish the form of contract as well as what we are-- the
evaluators consider the evaluative criteria that they're going to be scoring the proposals on. In that
solicitation packet is, as I said, the form of contract. And that's essentially the terms and conditions that
we're asking the selected vendors to agree to. What then? After the evaluators make their determination,
then in this case we take this to the Board, and we ask the Board to approve RTD entering into the
contract.
The next stage then is-- and I will just step back a moment because I think this is important for Director
Guissinger. We don't actually make award. So technically, MV wasn't awarded back in September. They
were provided a notice of intent to award. And that notice of intent to award is subject to, both in this
case, Board approval as well as successful contract negotiations. So what we term that is they weren't
awarded. They were provided a notice of intent to award. I know that's a subtle distinction, but that's
important for us.
Once we obtain the Board approval, in this case if it is granted, we would then go back to the contractors,
take that form of contract out of the solicitation, and submit that with the moving parts and pieces, the
percentages, the pricing. And then we would submit that back to the contractors.
So no, we don't have contracts yet. We have a template form of contract that we publish so that the
vendor-- the bidders, the potential vendors know what would be expected of them. And then we fill in the
blanks, like I said, with the appropriate pricing, percentages, et cetera, in this case. That is what we are
asking the Board to approve is those forms of contracts.
And until those are signed, that's when we consider the contracts actually awarded, because if for some
reason a contractor determined that they were no longer interested or something happened, that's one of
the-- we would not have-- we haven't awarded the contract. We're still pending and we could change. So
if things didn't work out, we could shift some of the percentages and some of the other contracts to maybe
other vendors, if that's the case. I hope that answers your question. And if not, please let me know.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a clarifying question. So I just-- I guess I want
to make sure that I understood what you just shared.

The template for the contract is a publicly available document. So if we were to dig on RTD's website, we
could find it. But you said some-- I think you said something about filling in the blanks. What goes into the
blanks? This is confidential information and not subject to public disclosure? I guess I'm trying-- what I'm
trying to understand is why the Board cannot vote on even a draft of a contract before it's executed. Why
can't we see those details?
DANA STEELE: This is Dana Steele, Director of Contracting and Procurement, if I may answer-- try to
answer that question. Well, it boils down to maintaining the integrity of the procurement process.
The technical proposals has confidential information at this point. If for some reason we were able to
disclose that pricing in this process to the Board, we could never go back. If one of those contracts failed
or if something happened, we could never go back. We'd have to start the process from scratch again
because that pricing that is currently blind to the other vendors would then be available, and they-- we
would have to start from scratch again, and we would have even bigger problems.
So we don't release pricing and proposals until after we have the contract award, we have general
information that's provided, we have large numbers, we have percentages. But we don't drill down into
how they came up. We don't release the proposals themselves until after to preserve that integrity of the
process.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Steele. Director Ruscha, did that help?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I don't think that satisfies my concern, but I don't have any further questions. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. I'd like to take Chair's privilege and speak for just a minute. One of
the things that I hear being discussed here is dollar value, and there is no dollar value on community
service, as we've discussed earlier.
I think that everybody here knows that I spent many years working in the field of older adults and persons
with disabilities, and Via Mobility is highly prized, respected, dependable. It's almost inconceivable to me
that we would not seek to partner with them for their intangibles more than anything else.
That's not to say that any of the other vendors are not valid entities, but I think that we need to take a look
at who we support and the criteria that we want to bring forward to our constituents. That's all I have to
say on the matter. Anybody else that would like to give input? Director Guissinger-- Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. You know, I agree with those comments. And I guess I appreciate your
comments, Ms. Steele, on the process. I am concerned about getting-- and I understand the contracting
issues and all of that. But getting the request to approve $323 million on contracts without any real
previous information about the process and the criteria and all of those things, I find disturbing. I don't
vote tonight, but I may be a no vote at the Board meeting. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. Director Ruscha, I see your hand.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I apologize, because I do not want to take up the air
in the Zoom room. And so if I'm speaking out of order, please correct me. I don't know if we're still in
questions or just comment. I did want to share a final comment I had on the proposal before us, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely. Have at it.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, Chair Williams. So I 100% support high-quality paratransit services.
Like Director Williams, this has also been part of my work. And I make no comment-- no negative
comment on any of the potential vendors that we have before us. I think they all provide value.
But I will be a no today as a matter of principle. I am not convinced that all of this information is
proprietary based on previous experience. These are contracts we can't see. We got an email after the
Board meeting started, which, as Director Sloan mentioned, we don't have time to fully analyze the
process and ask these follow-up questions.
This is $323 million for up to five years of service. These are federally mandated services. They're
incredibly important contracts. I personally just don't have enough information today. And I'm hoping that
in the time between now and our March Board meeting there is opportunity for more follow-up and
disclosure and transparency with the Board. So respectfully, I will be a no vote, and it's a matter of
principle and not about the topic of paratransit or providing high-quality service. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. I have a question, a procedural question. Director Sloan, I see
your hand, if you'd hold on for just one second. I'd like to ask our Corporate Counsel, Ms. Snyder, who I
do see here in the room, what happens if we don't move this out of committee?
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Well, then it would-- then the recommended action would fail.
KATE WILLIAMS: And so then Director Ruscha would not have a chance to vote no at the Board
meeting.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: That's correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. That was kind of my thought process. OK, Director Sloan, Director Ruscha,
could you-- hand down?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, I'm sorry. May I ask a question of General Counsel, a follow-up?
KATE WILLIAMS: Sure. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And again, I apologize. But Ms. Snyder, is there-- when this type of
situation or concern happens, do-- is there a precedent for referring an action like this to the other
committee? For example, Finance, because it would give more directors time to participate. And this is a
$323 million question without a contract attached. Is that something that historically has been done or can
be done? I'm not making the motion. I'm asking if-MELANIE J. SNYDER: Yes, thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. So I'm only coming up on just
shy of three years, so I can only speak to the time that I've been here, and other directors that have been
here much longer I'm sure can speak to it. I'm not aware of any precedent for that, and it doesn't really
procedurally quite work.
But as you know, the Executive Committee will take up this matter and will be setting the agenda. And my
understanding is sort of the custom. It's not required. But my understanding of the custom of how the
Board has been operating is that if a matter comes out of committee and it's not unanimous, it's
automatically taken off the unanimous consent agenda. And it gives opportunity for all directors to ask
questions and do so at the formal-- at the Board meeting. So that would be another opportunity.

And certainly, you should know, just because a director or a committee member were to vote this matter-vote in favor of proceeding with this matter, that wouldn't predispose you to have to approve it at the
Board meeting. You can always change your votes if that was something you decided to do.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Snyder. I do want to note for the record that it's possible that the
Executive Committee may override anything that happens in this committee meeting. Director Sloan, I
saw your hand first.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you again, Madam Chair. And this is essentially a follow-up on your question
as in what happens if we do not send this to the full Board. It's my understanding from the discussion
today, and I'm learning at this meeting, that what we have is a notice of intent to award at this point. Is
there an opportunity to change the criteria to make them more aligned with RTD's strategic plan,
specifically about community value and protecting the planet?
I'm pretty sure this is a legal question [LAUGHS] for General Counsel Snyder, but you know, I'm open to
hearing from anyone. If this goes back, doesn't proceed to the Board immediately, is there an opportunity
to change the criteria? Thank you.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
MELANIE J. SNYDER: I'll definitely defer to Dana Steele if she has anything to add, but the answer,
Director Sloan, is no. We would need to-- if we were looking at changing the criteria, we would have to
cancel the solicitation and repost the solicitation and start the process anew.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And I'd like to note for the record that this motion is to authorize the General
Manager and CEO to enter into the contracts. That is what the motion says. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And given that motion and that if we do not adopt this
today and it would have to go out again, my understanding of the memo was that proposals were due
January 31. So that means about five weeks that it has taken to process and put this together. So if we
either vote no or we delay, then my understanding of the memo as well is that it would be June-- I'm
looking at the memo again-- June 30-- yeah, June 30 before the expiration of the services. So we would
technically have time, but that would be cutting it short.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Anybody have a comment? Oh, I've got all kinds of people now.
Hold on. Is there anybody from staff that wants to speak to Director Rosenthal's statement, or shall we
just go on?
MICHAEL FORD: Just-- Michael Ford. That would create some challenges, given the timelines, and
having to allow for vendors coming in to set themselves up to be able to deliver services. So I just would
add that that does create some stress, for lack of better words.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. As an interloper, not a member of the committee,
but one very interested in the topic as raised by Director Ruscha, I felt compelled to make a couple of
observations.

It needs to be remembered that this is a Board of Directors. This is not a Board of Managers. It is not a
Board of Administrators. It is not a Board of Supervisors. It's a Board of Directors. We are here to govern
the agency. We are not here to micromanage the agency.
And when the request is made to have the entire finalized contract presented to the Board prior to its
approval, we run the risk of becoming micro managers. The statute, our enabling act, prohibits us from
doing that. Good governance prohibits us from doing that.
Now, it is an established fact that all of the directors have not had the opportunity for a full orientation
prior to their participation in the Board because of challenging circumstances we encountered since their
election. But it is a retreat topic that we address each year, and I would look to the Chair perhaps, the
Board Chair, to address this and to emphasize the point that it is not the function of the Board of Directors
to say, I need to see the final form of contract before I will vote to approve it. That is not the function.
And I think General Counsel could weigh in on this as well, and I haven't heard that either. But I do wish
to make the point for the record, just by virtue of the fact that we haven't had a chance to have a full
orientation exploring all of these things, to say, our job is to set the parameters and then to have staff go
out and execute and implement our decisions, but it is not our job to approve every jot and tittle of a
contract. And I thank you for your patience and letting me expound upon that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. We appreciate your input. You can put your hand down
now. Director Broom, you have the floor.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. It's really important that we maintain a squeaky clean
perception of bidders out there as far as when we go out to bid for various goods and services, because if
you don't, people will shy away from even bidding on it. You can't use soft and fuzzy things to determine
what you should cast your vote on.
I'm a Rotarian, and maybe if I were on this selection group and there's some Rotarian that had submitted
a bid, well, that'd be an automatic, you know, that I'd want to vote to give the contract to a fellow Rotarian.
You just simply can't go down that road. You've got to look at who's a responsible bidder. If they're
responsible, then it's, who's the low bidder? And that's who you award it to. And that way, it's fair to
everybody concerned. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. We appreciate your input. You can put your hand down
too. Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thanks very much. You know, I totally agree that we are not a Board of
Directors, and it's always a fine line to figure out where we set policy and, you know, how it applies in the
situation.
But that's why I started by asking, are we applying the criteria that we have said are important to us? The
community values, sustainability, those sorts of things. And maybe that's a question for further down the
road. I'm not saying I will vote no at the Board, but I also think that understanding the process before we
approve $323 million in contracts is just doing our due diligence. So I guess to that extent, I don't disagree
with what both of the two previous speakers are saying, but I think that part of this is helping set the
parameters. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. OK, I see no other hands at the moment. Unless
there's anyone from staff that wants to contribute anything further, I'm about to take us to a vote. OK, here

we go. Are there any no votes on this action? Let me go around and call the roll, I guess, would be the
appropriate way to do this. Now Director Bouquet, unfortunately, you're at the beginning.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, I don't think unfortunate at all, but yes. I'm a yes vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're a yes vote on giving our General Manager and CEO the authority to enter into
these contracts. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: I'm also a yes vote. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Respectfully no.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I'm a yes vote on sending this on to the full Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a no vote as well, so the two no votes are Director Ruscha and Director Williams.
With five yes votes, this will move forward. Second action on our extensive agenda this evening is the
May 2023-- oh, I need to note. I apologize. The motion was made by Director Whitmore and the second
was Director Sloan, and then we ended up with a 5 to 2 vote.
The May 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis, this is the second action that we will address. And it reads
for the Board of Directors to adopt the Title VI Service Equity Analysis report for the January 2023 service
changes to comply with federal laws, regulations, and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, as well as to meet the 2021 through 2026 strategic plan priority of community values. Do I have
a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved. Sloan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan. Thank you. And a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Bouquet. At this time, I'm am going to ask Carl Green, who is our
Director-- I'm sorry, Carl Green Jr.-- who is the Director of Civil Rights for RTD to present this item. Mr.
Green?
CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you so much, Madam Chair, for adding the Jr. And good evening, Madam
Chair and fellow Board of Directors. I'll go ahead and pull up the slides.

All right. Good evening. So again, my name is Carl Green Jr., Director of the Civil Rights Division. And
tonight, I will be presenting on the May 2023 Runboard or Service Changes Equity Analysis.
To give the Board of Directors an overview of what to expect during this presentation, I will be providing a
summary of the proposed service changes, the requirements as it pertains to the Federal Transit
Administration, an overview of the Title VI and Service Equity Analysis as it relates to our established Title
VI policies.
I will then get into the policies, the methodology for conducting the analysis, the results of the route and
network-level analysis, as well as the conclusions. I'll provide a brief overview of the public outreach and
then end with the recommended staff recommendation.
So just to give a high-level overview of the proposed service changes, as noted, there are 30 proposed
service changes. 20 of them are modified services, which is providing additional trips or expanded span
of hours. And there's 20 modified services, and then there's also 10 seasonal adjustments, as you can
see here on the bar or the table below.
Now we'll be getting into the FTA requirements as it relates to Title VI and specifically the requirements
from the Federal Transit Administration. So the authority that sets the precedent for these equity analysis
is the Civil Rights Act of 1964, also known as Public Law 88-352. Specifically, it is Title VI.
And essentially, what the quotes below the images on the screen here, essentially, those are the
nondiscrimination requirements for entities receiving federal financial. Assistance and by virtue of the
Federal Transit Administration, they set forth the policy guidance for conducting analyses. And in addition
to that, we have the RTD Title VI program, which I would like to highlight that the Board approved back in
2022, and I will cover down on two items of note that expanded our assessment as it relates to these
analyses.
So to give you an overview, the image on the screen here provides a workflow or decision tree as it
relates to the step-by-step process. So Step 1 is evaluating the type of change. The change in question is
our service changes, if it meets the major service change threshold, which I will describe a little bit later in
the presentation.
Then we move to Step 2, which is evaluating possible impacts on minority and low-income populations,
which I'll refer interchangeably as equity population. So in the spirit of-- in the letter of Title VI, it's
specifically directed towards minority and low income. And the definition of low income is at or below
150% of the federal poverty level.
So as we evaluate the possible impacts, we want to ensure that we are not creating an adverse impact on
these populations. And if the answer is yes to that question, we move directly to Step 3, which is
evaluating the alternatives where we'll either change course or address the matter. And if there is not a
disparate impact or disproportionate burden, then no further action is required.
So now I'll be breaking down a little bit further on the Title VI policy. First, our major service change,
disparate impact, and disproportionate burden. So as far as the major service change policy, it is a 25%
increase or decrease in the service hours of any route that would remain in effect over 12 months or
more. And as a result of the major service change assessment, out of these major service increases there
are two that met the major service change threshold out of the 30. So we're specifically looking at the two
major service changes.

So to give a more-- better understanding of our DI and DB policies, essentially there are established
thresholds to get a better understanding of the nature of impact of the changes. So as you see the
graphic on the right, this is testing for disparate impact at the system level. Essentially what this analysis
provides is to ensure for making service increases that minority populations or equity populations are not
receiving less of the benefit, whereas on the flip side if we're looking at major service reduction, we want
to ensure that these populations are not receiving more of the potential burden.
So if we look at the graphic, you can see here in the blue-- on the blue chart or the blue graph, or chart in
the graph, they're specifically looking at nonminority population impacted. So for example's sake, if it's a
25% of the nonminority population impacted, we have to-- per our policy, there is a threshold of 10% of
that 25%, which equates to 2.5%.
So you can see here the nondisparity range ranging from 25% to 27.5%. So if it exceeds that 27.5%, it
would result in a potential impact for minorities and also for low income for major service reductions. But if
we're looking at major service increases, knowing that nonminority populations are receiving 25% of the
benefit, we want to ensure that those equity populations are not receiving less of the benefit. So if it
exceeds that 22.5%, then it would be a potential disparity for minority and/or low-income populations.
So next, we'll get into the methodology. As I mentioned before, the Board adopted the Title VI program in
2022 back in May. And we expanded upon our route-level analysis, which we did previously. And we also
included a network-level analysis. So we have a two-pronged approach to our analysis.
The route-level analysis looks at each individual route. Specifically, if you look at the image on the left,
that more or less provides a good understanding of the way that we do our assessment where we look at
a particular route. We put a quarter of a mile buffer around that route to look at the service availability or
the populations within that buffer, and specifically looking at equity populations compared to non-equity
populations.
We then go to our network-level analysis, which is an aggregate of the major service changes. So it
provides that holistic understanding of the major service changes and what the benefit and/or potential
burden would be to Title VI populations.
So now I'll be getting into the route-level results where we can see for the Route 10, there is no potential
disparate impact or no disproportionate burden, whereas we look at the Route FF2 or the reinstatement,
there is a potential disparate impact and no disproportionate burden. And I want to pause here just for a
second to give a better understanding. So although there is a potential disparate impact, the second level
of assessment that we moved forward with is key public service assessments, which I'll talk to and-- talk
about in the next slide.
But essentially, if we look at we're adding back service, and knowing that we want to make sure that we're
as equitable as we can be, knowing that there are other requirements and service standards that we need
to adhere to, I would say these next couple slides when we talk about the key public service assessments
is something to take into consideration as we look at these route-level results. So again here, the key-and I'll just, from here on out, name them as points of interest.
So the route level and network level looks at service availability, where people reside, the neighborhood
where people reside. So a lot of feedback that we received is, what about access to-- access, right?
Where are people going? So another part of this assessment is looking at retail and convenience stores,
educational institutions, social services, senior housing, and access to jobs.

So as we look at the Route 10 specifically, we can see that the route extension on the right side of the
table, it provides new access to a number of jobs, grocers, social service centers, senior housing, and
academic institutions, whereas we see that it also maintains access. So as we're increasing service and
as we're adding span of hours, it also maintains access to these key points of interest.
So then if we look at that Route FF2, it also improves access given the reinstatement to a number of jobs,
grocers, and these other points of interest, which is of high value as we think about when we're bringing
about-- bringing back service, we want to make sure that we're equitable as possible, but we're also
increasing access to where people need to go.
So I also wanted to highlight the public outreach overview. We heard a couple of Board-- or a couple of
comments earlier in the Board meeting, and just wanted to highlight here that we had three-- or we had
open houses on February 21 and the 22nd for a total of three virtual meetings. And I also wanted just to
highlight here as an added level of outreach specifically, the Transit Equity Office reached out to about 68
community-based organizations and key public service destinations to provide notification and awareness
of these changes specifically for the Route 10 and the FF2. So I just wanted to let you all know that as we
think about our engagement, this is just another added value to ensure that we are connecting with the
populations that we are serving.
So next, I'll be getting into the network-level results. Just wanted to make note that minority populations
received slightly lower increase in service or were impacted slightly less compared to nonminority
populations. But as you can see on the first sub-bullet of 1, it's only a 0.11%. And if you-- and in
accordance with our disparate impact threshold, that 10%, it does not exceed the disparate impact
threshold, so there's not a high level of concern regarding Title VI.
And then next, I'll get into the low-income populations where they received a greater service increases-service increase. So they were impacted more or positively impacted more compared to non-low income.
And it was a net positive of 1.67% for these populations.
So the conclusion is if we look at the-- from a holistic standpoint of the two major service changes, we can
see that they serve an above average for low-income populations compared to the service district
average of 14.3% and in totality, equity populations were positively impacted slightly more, and there are
no system-level adverse impacts. And at this point, it is staff's recommendation for the Board to approve
the May 2023 Title VI service equity analysis, and I will now open up the floor for any questions that the
Board of Directors may have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Carl. That was an amazing presentation. OK. I see there are hands up
already. Director Rosenthal, you have the floor.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Mr. Green. And [LAUGHS] you know, I
guess with my questions I'm not trying to use the term used early. I'm trying not to micromanage the
project that you just put together. But at the same time, just sort of open questions about it.
So if I look at the maps that are-- let's just say for the 10, it cuts off where it starts or ends as you see it at
the Colfax Federal Transit Center. And so that is a pretty underserved population, and yet now it's no
longer being served there. And so I'm wondering about that piece.
CARL GREEN JR.: And Madam Chair, if I may, I would like to call upon Jessie Carter to talk specifically
about the Route 10.

KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Oh, thank you, Madam Chair. Having some issues with my video, so I apologize for
the camera not working. But at this point in trying to understand Director Rosenthal's question, the current
routing of the Route 10 ends that Colfax and Federal. So I'm not sure if he's interpreting the proposal as
being an extension. Where the extension actually occurs is further east, going to Colfax and Billings. So
it's not a change to the existing western terminal of the Route 10.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I guess I must be reading this wrong. It says proposed May 23, discontinued
routing. And it's in red, and it starts off at the Colfax Federal Transit Center. And then it goes all the way
to lower downtown near Union Station. So all that is in red and it all says discontinued, so I guess I'm
starting with that area.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It says current routing unchanged is the light blue where it starts at Union Station,
then goes further southeast and then east.
JESSIE CARTER: Oh, OK. Director Rosenthal, I apologize. I think what you're looking at is the
reimagined RTD System Optimization Plan information. And that is when you are-- if you were to consider
the services prior to the pandemic, that would have been the Route 10. But I'm happy to go through a
more thorough discussion of what's in the operations-- systems operimiza-- optimization study-- sorry
about that-- with you at some time to kind of explain the entire document.
But as the service stands right now, we start at the basically Colfax and Federal Station and extends. The
actual proposal for May 23 was to extend it to Colfax and Billings rather than end it at Del Mar in the
Aurora area. So that is the primary proposal at this point. And again, I offer a phone call or a meeting to
kind of explain it to you further.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. It doesn't say anything here about reimagined RTD. It says service change,
May 2023. It's page 70. And it's in our packet, so I guess I don't understand. But then going east as you
indicated-- so I can see why it would want to go to Colfax and Billings because you've got Anschutz there,
but then it does cut off the route going along 6th Avenue. So are there any other buses that would be
slated then to go along 6th Avenue to make up for that or to reroute to make sure that those folks are
taken care of, or that's just eliminated service for them?
JESSIE CARTER: The Route 6 is in that area, so it's actually limiting some duplication.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. All right. Thank you. That's all I have.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you. And again, my apologies. I will give you a call tomorrow, just to kind of
go over because it is terribly confusing when we were talking about the reimagined process and moving
forward with some of these other changes. So I do want to make sure it's understood clearly that our
stepping off point going forward is both in recognition of what the Board adopted in July of 2022 and at
the same time moving forward to make adaptations to what was in that overall plan.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Great. Thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, thank you, Madam Chair. I didn't realize I was not on mute. I had a question for
Mr. Green, I think. In defining our major service-- our major service changes definitions and our impact
definitions, I understand those are policies and things that were adopted by the Board. But can you
explain, are these baseline numbers set by the FTA or by us? And how do we-- how do we come up with
that formula?
CARL GREEN JR.: Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
CARL GREEN JR.: Yes, that's a great question, Director Ruscha. There's a-- I would say it's a
multifaceted approach as far as establishing the major service change or the DI/DB policies. And
essentially, what we as Title VI professionals, we'll do an assessment of what other transit agencies are
putting forth as their MI-- or MI-- DI/DB and major service change policy, just to get a better understanding
of what thresholds they are putting forth and what they're utilizing to see where we stand as an agency.
From there, we then go to public comment and outreach for the public to help inform those set policies.
And then-- and then we meet with service development and just staff around the agencies to go, what is-what are the potential unintended consequences or the impacts as it relates to service standards and so
forth?
But with equity in mind as we look at the populations that we are serving, currently right now those are the
policies that meet the moment as it relates to Title VI policy. And then to your point, the Board does adopt
these policies. And the next update to the program will be in 2025, so we can look at making any changes
at that time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Ruscha, you good?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I do have a separate question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. And this might be for the next item on the agenda, so
please correct me if I'm out of order. I just wanted to know, when we are performing an equity analysis or
a service change analysis, do we also in our community engagement process reach out to paratransit
riders or organizations that might represent them? Because if we change fixed route, we might
inadvertently eliminate their right to paratransit service. And again, if this is for the next presentation, I
apologize.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, who wants to take that one on? I think I can answer it, but anybody? Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: I would probably want to defer that to Mr. Carter.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr.-- oh, Mr. Carter, there you are.
JESSIE CARTER: I found a way to make my camera work, so thank you. Thank you, Director-- I'm sorry,
thank you, Chair. And basically, as far as our stakeholder process, we do reach out and offer an

opportunity to comment on not just the service change, but just a basic question to the community of how
we're doing. That stakeholder process actually precedes our public hearing process.
However, it should be noted that all of our public meetings are, again, available to the public at large. And
yes, we do-- we understand that when we have especially in the case of major service reductions, we do
make a larger effort to reach out to communities that may be impacted.
This service change itself right now as far as May 2023 was not a major service change in terms of
reducing service, so we didn't have that need to do something special as if we were turning down our
service levels on major routes that do affect folks who board who may have disabilities. We would have
made that type of outreach effort.
But at the same time, I have to say this to remind myself and not just the Board. Many of our customers
who use regular fixture transit are disabled as well. So even though paratransit may be impacted by the
offering of the service because it's predicated upon the existence of the fixed route service, we have to
take very close recognition that there are people who have disabilities who use all of our services, fixed
route as well. So I'm hoping that addresses your question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Director Ruscha, you good?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Mr. Carter, for that explanation and
that acknowledgment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Green, I saw your hand up earlier. You good too?
CARL GREEN JR.: Yes, I'm good. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Anybody else, questions or comments before we move forward? Hearing none, I
have Director Sloan as the movement and Director Bouquet as the second. Are there are any no votes on
this action? OK. Seeing none, that motion passes the seven votes, and we'll go on to the rest of us.
And the final action we have tonight is the May 2023 service change. And the action reads for the Board
of Directors to approve the May 2023 service changes as revised and summarized in attachment A and to
authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute contract amendments as necessary
for private operators impacted by these changes. Can I have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved. Sloan.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Rosenthal, second.
KATE WILLIAMS: And Rosenthal. Again, I'm going to ask Mr. Ford, our Chief Operations Officer, and Mr.
Carter-- we can now see the Senior Manager of Service Development-- to present this item.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. Last month, I
reported to the Board about the proposed May 2023 service change. And as you know, staff brings to you
three service change proposals over the course of a year's time for discussion and subsequent
recommendations which is in alignment with the Collective Bargaining Agreement known as the CBA,
with Amalgamated Transit Union, the ATU, Local 1001, for frontline operator selection of work,
commensurate with the RTD System Optimization Plan, which facilitates an interest in increasing the
service.

This exercise is done in conjunction with RTD's resources, which then dictates the level of service
increases, modifications, and/or adjustments needing to be executed for the upcoming service change.
By way of this discussion, the guidelines contained in the strategic plan most directly relate to addressing
customer excellence, thus improving on-time performance, maintaining contractual compliance, and
adjusting service levels to match service and ridership demand. Staff is guided by the Board-adopted
service principles.
And in your Board packet, you will see a breakdown summary of proposed service changes, service
improvements, service reductions, and seasonal adjustments to account for travel patterns. Also in your
packet is a complete breakdown of the proposed service changes and the results of the virtual public
hearings that took place on February 20, 2023, at noon, and February 21, 2023, at noon at 5:30 PM.
With that, I am happy to answer questions. And I would invite Mr. Carter, our Senior Manager of Service
Development, to join me in answering questions that you might have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I do not see any hands. Is there anyone who has questions or
comments regarding service changes? OK. I guess you guys are off the hook. [LAUGHS] If there are no
questions or comments further, I would like to see with Director-- I'm using my notes. I think I have Sloan
and Rosenthal is the moved and then the second. Are there any no votes on this action? Hearing none,
that motion passes seven to none.
The next item on our agenda are discussion items, and there is one discussion item on the agenda this
evening for a human resources update. I'd like to ask Charlene-- oh, boy. You've got to tell me how to say
it. "Pol-eje?"
CHARLENE POLEGE: Polege.
KATE WILLIAMS: Polege. OK. Our Chief People Officer-- that part I can get out-- to take it from here.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Wonderful. Thank you, Chair Williams. Just give me a moment and I'll pull up the
presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: While we're waiting on that, I'm just going to let you all know that toward the end of this
meeting, I'm going to ask for a break, so heads up on that. We're a great transit people, but we aren't
always great tech people. Don't feel bad. It's OK. Not happening, huh? Perhaps you could send your
presentation to somebody-- oh, you got it. Look at that. I'll be quiet. And you are muted, by the way.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And Charlene, I would say I know you have two screens, so we see the dual
screens, so you may have to swap to the other-- the other monitor. We can run down to assist you real
quickly. And you're on mute, so we can't hear you, but-KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] It's great. We are in [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: John McKay is on his way down to help you really quickly. I can hear him next door.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS]
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Awesome. I've got myself off mute, and I will--

DEBRA JOHNSON: John is on his way.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Awesome. My apologies. That's all right. We're happy to see your background. It's
small, but-- but we can see it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: [LAUGHS]
CHARLENE POLEGE: You can see all my stuff. OK. That's not good.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, it's fun. It's fun. So do you want to give us a little quick summary while Mr. McKay
is making reparations to your presentation?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yes, I can totally do that. So what-- I'm just pausing my share. So what I'm here to
present-- so my name is Charlene Polege. It's "Po-leg-ee." You'll probably remember that now.
I would like to start by saying I am the Chief People Officer, and my pronouns are she and her. And I just
wanted to take a moment to share that because I think it's really important that we model that action for
the LGBTQ+ community and get into the habit of identifying ourselves.
So with that, the presentation I'm going to be presenting this evening is just a high-level overview of
human resources and our activities or-- my door is locked. Our accomplishments, things that we have
experienced, and been able to accomplish in the last few months.
I've been here since December of 2022, and so with that, much of what I'm going to share with you today
has already been put into place through others. See, it's not as easy as you think, right? I know, my
computer's been very weird. John's working on it. I had paused the screen share.
JOHN MCKAY: Got you,
CHARLENE POLEGE: And so we're going to start off with-- what I'm going to cover tonight will be people
power. We're going to give an overview of our people power, some insights into the numbers of
employees that we employ at RTD. Then also, we're really going to focus in on two key areas, so
recruitment and retention at RTD, and some of our recent tactics and some successes that we're seeing
that are trending to continue in 2023 in these first few months.
And then I'm going to take a small little bit of time at the end just to give an overview of looking forward.
And I'll be coming back. This will be a regular-- I believe we're targeting for a quarterly update or so to
give you some insight into our journey on developing an employee-centric culture. Right? It's OK. So I feel
a little bit validated that John is also having some challenges, so our apologies, both of us.
So if we're talking about people power-- and I'm going to just keep progressing, if you don't mind. What I'd
like to say to start is that at RTD, first off we have an incredibly diverse talent pool. We have from bus and
rail operators, telephone information support, as well as mechanics, maintenance, IT, human resources,
legal. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me.
And frankly, there are so many that I'm sure I'm missing. We have a significant safety component of
professionals, civil rights. And why I highlight that is because that's critically important, because while it
increases the challenges in recruitment and the competition for talent, it also has the opportunity for great
growth and potential within RTD. So we have a diverse organization where we can promote and retain
and actually help individuals have a career. Not just a job, but actually have a career at RTD.

JOHN MCKAY: (WHISPERING) You have too many screens. I'm sorry.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I know I have too many screens. [LAUGHS] So with that, again, moving on, in
2022 compared to 2001-- maybe could we share it with someone? Yeah. Compared to 2022-- 2021-- in
2022, RTD hired 708 new employees into the organization, and we saw a 43% increase in applicant
traffic. So interest in RTD has increased. And in the first two months of this year, that increase is holding.
Actually, I think we're sitting at about a close to a 50% increase over the same two months last year.
That said, I would say it's not a growth year. It is a year of recovery. Certainly we needed to recover from
the impact. Thank you, John. We needed to recover from the impact of the pandemic, and so that's
largely what we're seeing. What's positive is that we are continuing to see this trend of interest in RTD
with applicants.
However, with 708 new hires in 2022, we also had 401 separations. The majority of those separations-yes. So the majority of those separations were voluntary. And also, it's interesting. Of those 401, only 5%- we do engage in exit interviews, and we seek to ascertain the reasons why individuals would be
choosing to separate from RTD. Only 5% of those-- thank you. I'm on slide 5.
Only 5% of those indicated that they did not like the job. So they were dissatisfied with their job. The
greater portion was the-- the greater rationale was compensation. So interest, feeling that our
compensation was not competitive, and opportunities, other opportunities in other jobs. The competition
for talent-DEBRA JOHNSON: Excuse me, Charlene. I apologize for the interruption. I was just notified that Stuart
Summers is going to help you with your presentation because we're still seeing dual slides in t he
[INAUDIBLE] so forth. So there you go. It's there.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Perfect.
DEBRA JOHNSON: We see it. All right. Teamwork makes the dream work. Thanks for your patience,
everybody.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I do-KATE WILLIAMS: She was doing a great job just talking through it.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I do apologize. Like I said, I had-- my computer was going on the fritz while the
other-- when the meeting was going on, so I kept coming in, coming out, so my apologies. That said, the
competition for talent is fierce. We are out competing with organizations all across-- all across Denver and
in the state. Next slide, please.
So what does that look like for us here at RTD? While we've made significant strides in our recruitment
efforts, the challenge that we still have is that, as you can see, is we still have some significant positions
where we have higher than desired, [LAUGHS] wanted vacancy rates.
So while we've made good progress with our bus operators full and part time and our rail operators-- in
fact, the rail operators, part-time rail operators, we don't have any vacant positions there. But we do have
positions ranging from 30% to 40% vacancy rate. And that is an area where our hope is with our talent
acquisition and some of the initiatives that we have ongoing that we'll continue to make some strides
there.

What I will also say is that as a team, we are working with our-- everything you'll hear tonight is a
collaboration. As Debra said, teamwork makes the dream work. Nothing is done on its own in isolation in
HR. And so we are looking at building specific plans for hiring and/or trying to attract to these key
positions. Next slide, please.
So when we look at talent acquisition-- next slide, thanks-- so what have we seen? Prior to my arrival,
and very grateful for that, the Talent Acquisition team was doubled in size to address the recruitment
needs. And that has allowed the recruiters to really focus on and make some headway, as we saw in the
previous slide.
We're also now seeing that some departments are returning to near or fully staffed. I can tell you, I
received-- I was part of an email chain recently where the leader of a department was saying for the first
time in a few years they were fully staffed, and how excited they were. And we are seeing that.
That's not to convey that we are anywhere near being fully staffed, given that if you take our current
vacant positions and our projected turnover, that would equal recruiting-- we would have 950 positions
based on budget, which would equal roughly about 80 positions would need to be filled per month. So it's
significant, good progress, but we still have a ways to go yet.
So a couple of the things that we're looking and have enacted and are pushing out, one is employee
referral. So RTD, we reactivated our Employee Referral program, and we have seen great success,
actually, with that in every orientation. A significant portion-- not quite 50%, but around 30% to 40% are
coming through employee referrals, which is great. I think we all know that generally speaking, an
individual that is referred by an employee often has an understanding of the organization in which they're
going into. And the employee, the individual themselves take pride in who they would be referring, so we
want to keep supporting that program.
As well, we have-- [CLEARS THROAT]. Excuse me. We also have-- to address the challenge before us,
we're doing some specific diversity and veteran outreach programs. And I think what I wanted to say here
is if we were to summarize the true challenge that we have before us, it's that we need to attract
significant numbers of specialized skills in a very short period of time. And once they're hired, getting
them into the door is just the first part. The next part is giving them an experience and an opportunity in a
career that they then choose to stay at RTD.
And I share that because that is an overarching principle for us in HR here and in our recruitment efforts
because if we can do that, then we can be uniquely positioned to be, again, the leading multi-modal
transportation authority in the country because we are people moving people. So that's why you'll see the
focus is on talent acquisition. And in the coming updates, you'll see talent acquisition and retention
because those are our two primary areas. Next slide, please.
So one of the areas that just launched here at the end of February is a partnership with eQuest. And
eQuest is a national job posting and compliance portal. And what's great about eQuest is we will now-we now have the opportunity and the ability to, in real time, take our postings and push them across
multiple sites. And on the right of the screen is just-- it's six of over 100 different agency, communitybased organizations, job boards that we will now be able to post in real time on all of these sites.
Additionally, we have the ability with eQuest to start tracking our community outreach. And so whenever-whether that be-- and you'll see some of this, campaigns that are done in collaboration with the
Communications and Marketing team led by Stuart Summers, or work that you'll also see that's being led

in partnership with the Civil Rights team with Carl Green Jr. is we will be able to track all of that in real
time and then eventually get to the-- once we have enough data, be able to assess what has worked well
from our recruitment perspectives and where we need to make adjustments.
And in HR terms, we'd be looking to see applicant conversion rates. We're not there yet. It just launched
in February, but we're really excited about this opportunity, this partnership. Next slide. Thank you.
So as I was saying, we do work in collaboration. Gabe Christie, who is our Manager of ADA under the
Civil Rights Division, is leading a Persons with Disabilities Partnership. I've had the pleasure of being
invited to also participate in this partnership as well, and one of the key initiatives that they've already had
underway is we're collaborating with external subject matter experts to look at opportunities within RTD
that may not have been presence of mind.
So one of those would be in the Telephone Information Center, we started exploring whether there were
opportunities for persons with visual impairments. And so on the surface one might think, can someone
with a visual impairment be able to give someone on the phone directions what bus to take? And the
answer is, yes. We've actually been able to ascertain that, yes, we can. We need appropriate
technologies and supports, but yes.
So that work is ongoing. We've identified some shortcomings with our systems, but none of those
shortcomings appear to be insurmountable. So now we're working on identifying mitigation strategies so
that the intention would be so that we can actually hire persons with visual impairments in our Telephone
Information Center and potentially other areas within RTD. But more importantly, it's a great example of
what we can do when we just work collaboratively with partnerships outside of RTD and have an open
mind to the potential of what's possible. Next slide.
So another initiative that is launching here in March-- and this is the one in collaboration with Stuart
Summers' team-- is a military campaign. And so this is a specifically targeted campaign that actually was
created with input from current RTD employees who are veterans.
So Kevin Emery, who you see there, is an RTD employee. And they have been involved in the work of
this-- development of this program so that it can speak directly to veterans who are transitioning out of a
career in service to their country and potentially into a career in service to the communities to which RTD
serves.
We're developing a military-specific-- a dedicated military careers page, as well as engaging partnerships
with the four bases that we have within the local area to identify opportunities within RTD and to try to
create a seamless transition for-- in particular, some of those key positions we were talking about in
maintenance of way mechanics. Very-- highly skilled positions in which our veterans may be very well
suited. Next slide, please.
So we talked about bringing people in, and now we need to talk about retaining. So as I indicated
previously, before the slides were working, but that majority of those who chose-- of those 401 who
chose-- who separated, the majority of those who voluntarily chose to leave noted compensation and
other job opportunities.
So RTD has made great strides with respect to compensation. When I quote those numbers, those are
from 2022. So certainly at the end of 2023, we're going to keep looking at that data. But there was
movement within the collective bargaining agreement as well as cost of living increases that bring RTD's

compensation to be market competitive. We're not the market leader, but we are market competitive. We
are no longer the market lag.
We need to continue on that work, and we need to stay on that work so that we can stay competitive. And
so under GM Johnson, this will be a regular review so that we can stay on top of that. And as I said in
2023, we'll see-- we hopefully will see a needle move with respect to retention, and in particular, people
choosing to leave because of compensation.
The other part is training and development. So as I said, helping individuals see that you can have a
career here. Well, we have a lot of different and diverse positions. We are going to work with our Training
and Development team, which is now fully staffed. That is one of those areas that is fully staffed, and
we're happy about that. And the first order of business was the development of a learning and
development framework.
Why is that important? Because it's through that learning and development framework that we can help
individuals progress from one career to another by providing training internal to RTD instead of seeking
talent-- only looking for talent external to the agency. So next slide, if we could.
So just wanted to share with you the learning and development framework that we now have at RTD. This
learning and development framework, the key here is that we are looking to identify opportunities for the
RTD workforce that exist today, and then prepare them for the roles that they may wish and that we will
need in the agency tomorrow.
So it starts-- it's a circle. It's cyclical. You'll find-- although this is my first presentation to the committee,
you'll find I provide a lot of circles in my demonstrations, and that's because that is the cycle. Everything is
the employee life cycle, and it ties back. And you don't just do it once and then don't do it again. You need
to do it. You need to design it, identify the need, align it to our strategic plan, design the training plan.
So how are we going to get there? Assess where we're at, deliver that training, implement what we've
learned in that training, and then follow up. So was it the right training? Did the training stick? Is it
providing what we needed? And then we assess it and then we do it all over again. It's an ongoing basis.
So I'm really happy to have a manager of learning and development on board. [CLEARS THROAT]
Excuse me. And one of the first programs that was used using institutional design, training design-- next
slide, please-- was performance management training. This was a gap that was identified before my
arrival certainly, and this was the first delivery under that framework was a performance management
training. This was for salaried managers with direct reports.
And there were two components to this training. One was an overall training on performance
management, how-to, and then there was an additional training on SMART goals. So setting SMART
goals. So SMART-- for those of you, it's Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, right? That's really
important because when you develop a SMART goal, you're able then to give as a leader feedback, real
constructive feedback that will help me perform better. And so that was also created.
With the performance management training, we had a 75% attendance rate. There were in-person and
virtual sessions. And you can see the number of attendees were highest in the in-person, which is great.
So we had 120 attendees. And the 408-- 4.08-- pardon me-- out of 5 for assessment. We will be
assessing all of our training, as I said, for value. If people are going to take their time to participate, we
want to make sure that they feel that that is valued.

Specifically, one of the key things the overwhelming majority of respondents, greater than 80%, stated
that the topics covered in the training were relevant to me and my role. And so again, if we're going to
take time away from the day-to-day to engage in training, we want to make sure that it's valuable to the
participants. Next slide, please.
So didn't show you a lot on training and development because it's new and we're just getting started, but
some of the key things that we're going to be developing, there will be a follow-up or a supplemental
training for all employees around performance management so that all employees have an opportunity to
understand how their performance will be assessed and their engagement in that process, as well as
planning is underway for a supervisory and management training program, which will have a number of
modules within it, as well as other training that we're collaborating with in other departments within the
agency.
So looking forward or moving forward, what I'm showing you here is another circle, as I said. But this is
around creating an employee-centric culture. So GM Johnson was very clear with me when we were
engaging in discussions about me joining RTD around her commitment to developing an employeecentric organization.
So that is not-- that is more than just, I want to develop an employee-centric organization. That takes
purposeful, dedicated, consistent work that will happen over weeks, months, and years. It's a journey. It's
not a sprint.
But it also follows the entire employee life cycle. So it starts with commitment, a connection to the
strategic plan, assessing where we're at today. So what are our workforce analytics? And a lot of this has
already started. The agency was already engaging in this work before I joined.
And then participation, engaging in strategic workforce planning. Again, getting the right people in the
right roles doing the right work at the right time, so when we need them.
How do we attract them? So what is our value proposition at RTD? We're going to be developing that.
And then acquiring, bringing people in, empowering them through performance management, engaging
the community in the process, and retaining them through growth and succession. As I said, it's more
than just a job. There's an opportunity for a career at RTD.
So in closing, what I would just want to-- we can go to the next slide if-- oops. Nope. Sorry. [LAUGHS]
You already advanced. My apology. So just in closing-- I'm sorry-- what I would say would be ensuring
that we have the right people in the right roles doing the right work at the right time is critical to our
success.
And so informed by our collective voices at RTD, the community, and empowered by its mission, vision,
and values, and the Board support, we will construct a strategy that is inclusive, equitable, diverse, and
welcoming. And it'll be a culture that unlocks the passion and talent of all, and that provides experiences
that keeps people engaged, empowered, and inspired throughout their employee life cycle from the day
they come in for they interview till the day they choose to retire. Not choose to separate, but choose to
retire from RTD.
And that is the goal of what I'll be doing. And in the coming weeks and months, I need to get out and I
need to engage in conversations, in dialogues, and shadowing and hear from the employees within the
agency, because that's how we will bring them in. We can't create an employee-centric culture without

having the employee voice, and so I will be dedicating appropriate time to that work as well. And so with
that somewhat jumbled presentation-- my apologies-- I will yield the floor and standby if there are any
questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you so much for that presentation. It was fascinating, regardless of how
technologically jumbled it was. And I see that some of the other directors are interested as well. Director
Ruscha, you had your hand up first.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Ms. Polege. This was a really wonderful
presentation, and I just-- I really want to applaud you and the GM and staff for engaging in this work. I just
had a comment or question.
I've noticed that on some of our job postings-- like for example, there's one for an HR intern. It says that
the applicant must have a driver's license, and I was wondering if that was something that you had
considered in also going through our postings and only including that requirement when it's absolutely
necessary. I think that in addition to being a transit agency, it can also be an equity barrier.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, thank you for that, Director Ruscha. I can tell you affirmatively yes. We are-it's a significant project, and we one of our new hires, we also have an ADA coordinator that is in the HR
team now. And one of the projects that we have is going through all of our job descriptions and
identifying-- and challenging, is that actually a requirement, as you just appropriately pointed out. So that
is going to take some time, and it'll be ongoing work. But yes that is a significant project that we are
starting on.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both. Director Ruscha, any more? You good?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I do have two more, briefly. So one-- and I apologize. I might be showing my
ignorance. But Ms. Polege, you referenced earlier that we didn't have any part-time openings, but we did
have full-time openings for train operators. And because we are still suffering from cancellations,
sometimes unplanned, is it possible to add more part-time operators, or does that not work for reasons
you might be able to explain?
CHARLENE POLEGE: So I wouldn't be able to say definitively with respect to the rail operations. What I
can say is that we actually have started I think just a couple weeks ago with the recruitment team working
with Dave Jensen and others on, what could we do with respect to rail operators in particular? It's a highly
skilled position, and it is challenging. And so while I wouldn't commit, we're looking at opportunities-- I
can't say definitively, yes, that one. But certainly, I will bring that up in those conversations.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Go ahead, Director. One more.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And this might just be more of a comment. It's not meant to be a
gotcha question. I just was wondering or I just wanted to put out there that both the Attorney General's
office and the Governor's office have Fair Chance hiring initiatives, and I would just like to state that I
would be-- I would love it, if we have not yet considered that kind of partnership, if that's something that
we might consider in the future.
And this is done in partnership with a lot of community organizations. And I just saw based on the listings
and qualifications required, I think there might be an additional pool of applicants that we might-- we could
pull from, and so I just wanted to put that out there.

CHARLENE POLEGE: So I would-- thank you for that. And I would say that we actually already are doing
some work in that area. So yeah, that is something that we already are and actually do have-- we actually
have success with that, so I also support that initiative.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, hand down. Director-- OK. It's Bouquet. General Manager, your hand went down,
so I'm not going to you now. OK. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Polege, for the presentation. Really appreciate it. So my
full daytime job is an educator teaching down in Douglas County. We have the conversation regarding
Career Technical Education, or CTE. And this might be a comment or it might just be a question overall,
but just maybe something to potentially consider as you look at long term of we have a potentially very
young applicant pool, especially as we have school districts that are looking into not the push when I was
in high school of, oh, which college are you going to, but rather, which career are you going into?
And so I guess that would just be my one comment/question if that's potentially something we could
explore into the future. Probably nothing near term, but again, making sure that we always have an
applicant pool I think looking younger might potentially be the solution. So thank you for my comments.
CHARLENE POLEGE: May I add?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Chair Williams. So great comment, and I can say, yes, one of the
benefits of the decision to increase the size of the recruitment team is our ability to go out and engage in
outreach. And I have actually had-- I've been having conversations around-- when I was saying about the
right people in the right role at the right time, that's not just today. That's five years down the road.
And we do need to be looking at having those conversations. So we have been discussing what our
partnerships could be looking like. And I actually did say getting in there when they're young because if I
just could-- that's what's so great and why I started at the beginning with the diversity of our positions,
because often when you're young you don't exactly know-- I didn't-- well, I did, but you know what I mean.
This is a different career than what I first thought I was going to do, but you don't know exactly.
And so sometimes getting into an organization with RTD, your opportunity can just explode if only you
know that there's opportunity there. So I support that, and we are already having conversations along
those lines.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. I think there's a huge pool of potential there, so thank you for considering
that.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, and add my applause for the presentation and the direction you're taking
your department in. I have what could be considered a request or a question, and that is we are-- the

agency is newly expanding its police department, and that will have a significant effect on the atmosphere
and our transit facilities and the feeling of the community about getting on transit.
And it would be great if we can see-- and again, I know it's new, but in the future see the hiring trajectory
of the law enforcement, just like you had the train operators and bus drivers and maintenance people. I
think that would be really helpful information for the Board to have. Thank you.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. For Ms. Polege's benefit, just to let you know, we
used to have-- and I don't know. There might still be some available that are going on, but we used to
have partnership programs that were internships with Metro State University, Community College of
Denver, and Aurora Community College relative to operators and mechanics. And to the extent that we
can reinstate if they're gone or expand, those are wonderful resources for recruitment. Thank you.
CHARLENE POLEGE: May I just make a comment, Chair? Thank you, Director Tisdale. I do support that.
I would also say that just for the committee's reference, as part of the last round of bargaining with the
represented group in the CBA, there was an agreement, actually. We are working on trying to establish
an apprenticeship program within RTD, and that will also be incredibly helpful. And so both sides are
committed and really interested in conversations and dialogue, or started again.
That is a longer journey. It takes time to set those programs up well. But I was really pleased to see. And
those conversations are happening with Chief Operations Officer Ford and others at the table to try to do
that. So because-- and I highlight that because part of the apprenticeship program has an education
component to it, and so there are partnerships there as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. That sounds interesting. General Manager CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And thanks, Ms. Polege, for that great presentation and all the
questions and the comments of the Board members. I just wanted to share something, as it relates to
Director Tisdale and the partnerships with community colleges and universities that we are actually
leveraging a cadet program in Denver as it relates to the police force.
And then additionally, to the point that you raised about the community colleges, that too came up this
morning in the elected officials briefing. And we were having conversations, and there are some
community colleges that may have decided to draw back because of their limited resources. But just to
Ms. Polege's point, we are engaging once more, and that's why it was such a great opportunity this
morning to hear there's that commitment there. So I just wanted to circle back and just add that, so you
guys were all aware that there's tons of things on the table and we appreciate all the input, so this is
exciting. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. I have one other question myself. I did not see that we are lacking
any personnel administratively? Is that-CHARLENE POLEGE: Sorry, Chair. So we certainly do have vacancies in administration. Our focus
there-- and I chose to specifically focus in the areas where we had 30% to 40% vacancy rates, and those
most directly often will impact our service levels.

Now, we do have challenges in IT. IT is a significant challenge for recruitment in just about any
organization at this time. But certainly, we do have some administration. And we can look at other stats in
future presentations. Certainly can do that. But I don't have those at the ready, but I do know we still do
have-- our overall vacancy rate for the agency is 18% at this point, but we do have some vacancies in
administration.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just bring it up because I just got-- you know one of those emails that you get in the
middle of the meeting from somebody who was just turned down for employment at RTD. And I just
wondered if our-- and the letter that we send says, please go to our website and look for other jobs. But I
wonder if we look at those people and look at other jobs that they might fit in instead of just saying to
them, goodbye. No thanks.
I'm not an HR person, so not my job. I'm trying not to micromanage here. It just-- I have your rejection
letter right here on my phone from somebody who just emailed it to me, so perhaps we might talk about
that offline. Director Ruscha, I'm going to give you another bite at the apple go ahead. Your hand's up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Briefly, I wanted to know if we have any vacancies or
plans to expand any outreach or mental health staff as part of our safety plan and that component, if
anyone could answer that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair. So thank you so much, Director Ruscha, for the question.
And Chief Fitzgerald and I have had conversations relative to that. And one thing I want to qualify my
comments by saying that we pride ourselves on being subject matter experts in the realm of delivering
transit services. And so as we look at providing a pathway to those services, it's more or less the
partnership aspect. And what I mean by that is how we have unhoused outreach individual, that's done
through a grant program through Jefferson County.
So looking at those opportunities holistically as we go down that path, because being in this environment,
if you're the lone individual in that space, how can you be supported but working in tandem? And we've
also learned from experience with other transit agencies that are inflicted with the same anti-social
behaviors and things of the like.
And the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District as an example, they invested in this program,
spent $350,000. Now, let me qualify. This is according to a report in the San Francisco Chronicle. But
spent all this money and was able to place one person because that may not be our bailiwick.
And so looking at all of this holistically as we go forward, so I would leave it there. And then as we come
back, we can have greater discussions around what might be feasible. And I don't know if Chief is on the
call, but-JOEL FITZGERALD: I am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, sir. Please.
JOEL FITZGERALD: And you hit on every point that I would have hit on. We are also leveraging our
partnerships with Denver. So we are providing those services and steering people towards them. We've
had some attrition in regards to some of the providers that we've worked with. But nonetheless, we still
work with the city of Denver to provide those services downtown in particular.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, sir. Welcome back. Thank you, ma'am. I don't see any other hands up.
Anybody else have a question or a comment before we move on down the line? OK. Seeing none, are
there any other matters that need to come before this committee? Again, seeing no comment.
In a moment, this committee will meet in executive session for the battery electric bus project and the
New Flyer contract. We are going to reconvene in open session after the executive session ends so that
we will then adjourn. I am going to take a motion. We'll come to the break in just a minute. Hold on.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session regarding the battery electric bus project in
the New Flyer contract pursuant to 24-6-402 CRS to receive legal advice, and 24-6-402(4)(e) ECRS for
determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, a point of order?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir?
DOUG TISDALE: And not as a committee member, but as a volunteer, you may recall we have discussed
in the past that when you have a motion to move into executive session, which is at the end of the
meeting, you can also append to that motion that the committee will be deemed adjourned following the
conclusion of the executive session so that the committee need not reconvene in open session merely for
the purpose of issuing an adjournment, a practice that most city councils follow when they go into
executive session.
I, of course, yield to General Counsel to the extent that she has any comment or observation relative to
that, but I just thought it would save some flipping back and forth between meetings. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, you're using flipping. OK. I will then entertain a motion to move into executive
session regarding the battery electric bus project and New Flyer contract pursuant to 24-6-402 CRS to
receive legal advice, and 24-6-402 CRS to determine positions relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiation with the amendment that this committee will consider itself adjourned at the end of that
executive session. Do I have a mover?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved.
BOB BROOM: So moved
JULIEN BOUQUET: Bouquet.
KATE WILLIAMS: I hear Bouquet and I heard Director Broom as the second. Anybody opposed to that?
OK. Prior to adjourning, we will take a break. It is 7:43, and I'm going to give everybody seven minutes
and ask that we come back at 7:50 into the executive session. You're out of here, people. This meeting is
considered paused.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

AUTOMATED VOICE: RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New
validators are being installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway.
Transfer your existing MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app,

creating an account, and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride. Want more
information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and important updates
at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians, no commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on-the-job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time, anywhere, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD Mobile Tickets app, just update it and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or
visiting any of our stations and facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit
Watch. Download the Transit Watch app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians, no commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on-the-job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time, anywhere, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD Mobile Tickets app, just update it and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or
visiting any of our stations and facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit
Watch. Download the Transit Watch app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians, no commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on-the-job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time, anywhere, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD Mobile Tickets app, just update it and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or
visiting any of our stations and facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit
Watch. Download the Transit Watch app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians, no commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on-the-job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time, anywhere, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD Mobile Tickets app, just update it and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or
visiting any of our stations and facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit
Watch. Download the Transit Watch app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians, no commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on-the-job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time, anywhere, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD Mobile Tickets app, just update it and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
[MUSIC PLAYING]

RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or
visiting any of our stations and facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit
Watch.

