Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
October 17, 2013 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

October Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - October 29, 2013
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Anthony B. Carter – Bus Operator – 20 years
Robert Cowan – Bus Operator – 15 years
James H. Martinez – Project Technician – 28 Years
Bobbie L. McGinnis – Light Rail Controller Supervisor – 20 years
Brian Wadding – Bus Operator – 26 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed-Route Operator Winners
1st Place – John Deschner
2nd Place – Dan French
3rd Place – John Johnson

RTD Fixed-Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Platte: Charlie Chavez, Jon Paul Mitchell, Ernesto Perez
Private Contractor Fixed-Route Operator Winners
1st Place – Abniger “AB” Ek-Chan – First Transit Denver
2nd Place – Jose Ek-Chan – First Transit Denver
3rd Place – Paul Zadra – First Transit Denver
Private Contractor Fixed-Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place - First Transit Commerce City: Mike Sacchetta, Dencho Parapunov, Norm
Witt
Paratransit Operator Winners
1st Place – Miguel Robles – MV Transportation
2nd Place – Rick Isbell – Via Mobility
3rd Place – Ernesto Montano – MV Transportation
RTD Service and Cleaning Winners
1st Place – Platte: Robert Duran
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Bryan Coy
2nd Place – Aaron Boettcher
3rd Place – Robert Dennis
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Randall Lovegrove
2nd Place – George Sweeney
3rd Place – Todd Woodward
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Roadeo
Single-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Guy Pierce and Randy Wagner
2nd Place – Chip Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
3rd Place – Reed Sorenson and David Waite

Tandem-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – John Prather and David Johnson
2nd Place – Bob Alford and Leo Dowd
3rd Place – Alex Martinez and Daniel Guerrero
V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler/Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 17, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Free Rides for Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free
rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be
extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2013 to December
31, 2014. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal
impact on RTD.
B.

Approval of Contactless Card Contract for SmartCard

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to execute a contract with Giesecke & Devrient to provide contactless
smart cards (Contract 13DH023). This award is for a three-year contract followed

by two one-year options. The award amount is not-to-exceed two million dollars
($2,000,000.00).
C.

2014 Salaried Benefit Plans

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the 2014 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Budget
and authorize the CEO/General Manager to enter into an agreement with the
Insurance Carriers.
XII.

Recommended Action
D.
North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional
Transportation District. The agreement includes specific terms defining CCD’s local
agency contribution, coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each party
associated with construction of the North Metro Rail Line within the City’s
boundaries.
E.
16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project Funding Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD)
and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the
rights, duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to mutually fund a portion of the
project costs to design and reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16th Street Mall
(Blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13) within the CCD Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD
and CCD to provide matching local funds necessary to receive FTA Grant Funding.
Funding for this project is included in the 2013 Amended Budget
F.

Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accepts the modifications to the 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement.
G.
Certification of the 2014 Contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’
Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly
benefit at retirement, at the actuarial recommended amount of $3.1 million. It is
also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to

the Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which
contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment, at a rate
of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.
H.

January 2014 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the January 2014 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of
approximately $635,500
and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2013

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 8, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2013

Subject:

Free Rides for Members of the Military

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on RTD for active duty
members of the United States Military should be extended from the presently approved date of December
31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal
impact on RTD.
BACKGROUND
At the October 30, 2006 Special Board Meeting, the RTD Board of Directors approved a resolution allowing
active duty U.S. Military personnel to ride free on all RTD services through the end of 2006. This offer has
been extended annually by the Board since that time and is now valid through December 31, 2013. As a
result of these actions, all active duty members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard,
National Guard, and Reserves are entitled to ride free on any RTD service including special services such as
SkyRide and BroncosRide. To be eligible to ride for free, active duty military personnel must either be in
uniform or present an active duty military ID card.
DISCUSSION
Staff recommends that the RTD Board of Directors extend this offer beyond the current expiration date of
December 31, 2013 and that the expiration date be extended by one year at this time and revisited again
next year.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The exact financial impact of this action is not known, but is expected to be minimal.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Extend free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. This is the staff
recommendation.
2. Do not extend RTD’s program offering free rides for active duty members of the United States
Military.

Prepared by:
Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.A

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 10, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2013

Subject:

Approval of Contactless Card Contract for
SmartCard

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to execute a contract with Giesecke
& Devrient to provide contactless smart cards (Contract 13DH023). This award is for a three-year
contract followed by two one-year options. The award amount is not-to-exceed two million dollars
($2,000,000.00).
BACKGROUND
When RTD selected the SmartCard program vendor, ACS/Xerox, it was determined that some system
and program components should be acquired through a separate competitive procurement process. The
contactless SmartCards (SmartCard media) are a major element of the SmartCard program and are
available in the open market to purchase for distribution from RTD to SmartCard users.
DISCUSSION
On July 15, 2013, RTD issued a request for proposal to acquire contactless SmartCards to provide the
card inventory to maintain the existing EcoPass and CollegePass programs and in preparation for 2014’s
MyRide fare program. The selected vendor is to provide the cards configured to work with the Xerox
system and address the necessary security provisions. On August 15th, five proposals were received:
ABnote, ASK-Int-TAG, EDM, Giesecke & Devrient and Multicard. Giesecke & Devrient was selected out
of five firms in this open-competition. Giesecke & Devrient’s proposal demonstrated a strong and
experienced team in the transportation industry and Xerox will be required to certify that the cards work
on RTD’s system. Their proposal demonstrated a low cost and a thorough understanding of the card
requirements along with comprehensive security procedures. The selection criteria for this requisition
were: Cost 60%, Experience with Transit Smart Media Production and Compliance with Specifications
25%, Strength of Security Procedures 10% and Previous Experience with Xerox / ACS 5%. Giesecke &
Devrient also had high recommendations from the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA).
Based on RTD’s estimated card usage, RTD anticipates the average cost per card to be $1.05. Cards
will be used over a five year period.
This contract provides the necessary card inventory to maintain the normal operations of the EcoPass
and CollegePass programs and preparation for next year’s MyRide implementation.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Cost to RTD for the contract period, is set at two million dollars ($2,000,000.00). Individual orders will
be placed to provide necessary card inventory as needed by RTD on a just-in-time basis. Sufficient
funding has been included in the 2014 expense budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the three year contract (Contract 13DH023) with two one-year options with Giesecke &
Devrient with a not-to-exceed value of two million dollars ($2,000,000). This action provides card
inventory to maintain and expand the RTD SmartCard initiative.

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.B

2. Do not approve the contract. This is not the recommended action because the functioning of the
SmartCard system requires the availability of adequate contactless card stock for customers.
3. Require staff to issue a new RFP.

Prepared by:
Sue Sandoval, Manager, Accounting
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 10, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2013

Subject:

2014 Salaried Benefit Plans

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the 2014 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Budget and authorize the CEO/General Manager to
enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
BACKGROUND
Annually the staff brings the proposed Salaried Employee Insured Benefits program for approval to the
Board of Directors. Approval of the program by the Board establishes the rates for Open Enrollment and
provides costs for the 2014 Budget. The Open Enrollment period for salaried staff begins October 20,
2013, and closes November 2, 2013.
DISCUSSION
The goals for the 2014 plan year are: 1) Achieve the 2014 Budget, 2) Continued focus on containing
cost and emphasis on improving health and wellness consumerism, 3) Maintain market competitiveness,
and 4) Insure compliance with PPACA – Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Health Care Reform
provisions as applicable to RTD).
Following is a summary of the modest changes for the 2014 plan year.
Medical
-

-

Cigna administers two self-funded plans on behalf of RTD. Both the PPO (Preferred Provider
Organization) Plan and the HDHP (High Deductible Health Plan) Plan have a specific individual
$150,000 stop-loss ceiling in 2014. The administrative cost will increase by 0.1% in 2014. The
Cigna Plans are expected to have approximately 460 employees enrolled. 2013 claims are running
14.3% below expected claims YTD, and 2014 claims are not projected to be higher than 2013
levels.
Kaiser provides 3 Plan Options: a fully insured HMO (Health Maintenance Organization); a DHMO
(HMO Plan with deductibles), and an HDHP. The Kaiser plans are expected to have approximately
200 employees enrolled. This plan has proposed a 3.5% blended increase over 2013.

Dental
-

No carrier/plan changes and no fixed cost increase. Delta is a self-funded plan, and has projected a
5% increase in expected claims exposure. Administrative fees are in a rate guarantee period until
2015 renewal.

Life & Disability
-

The rate guarantee with Lincoln National expired. Our renewal resulted in a 12.5% increase on our

Packet Pg. 10

2.11.C

life insurance rates. Rates for Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability, Accidental Death &
Dismemberment, and Voluntary Insurance products had no increase in premium rates.

Vision/Business Travel Accident
-

Vision Plan is currently a fully insured plan with Anthem Blue Cross – Blue Shield, and is in rate
guarantee until the 2015 Plan renewal. There are no carrier/plan changes and no costs increase
with the Business Travel Accident Plan.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2014 planned Salaried Employee Insured Benefit budget is projected to be a 2.9% increase over
2013 projected benefit costs. The success in cost containment is largely due to the 2010
implementation of the Cigna self-funded options and implementation of the HDHP (High Deductible
Health Plan) options in both Cigna and Kaiser. Although medical trend increases for employer-sponsored
group plans for 2014 are projected to be 10%, RTD has effectively managed to keep the salaried benefit
plan increases lower.
The major cost impacts in 2014 are due to Kaiser Premium increases of 3.5%. The net additional benefit
costs anticipated in 2013 are essentially flat. This is the fourth year we have achieved strong cost
containment as a result of our shift in carriers, plan offerings, plan design and funding models.
The 2013 estimate of the Salaried Employee Insured Benefits is $9,360,797. The projected increase of
2.9% results in an increase of $271,463 or a total projected cost of $9,632,260 in 2014. The increase
meets the projected costs in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). RTD’s benefit costs are below the average
for Metro area companies, which are experiencing 6-15% cost increases according to the Denver
Chamber of Commerce.
ALTERNATIVES
1.

2.

3.

It is recommended that the Financial Administration and Audit Committee recommend to the full
RTD Board of Directors that the 2014 Salaried Employee Insured Benefit Plan recommendations
be approved.
Further modify the salaried employee benefit plans to be offered in 2014. This is not
recommended since it would require significant additional negotiations with benefit providers and
delay the employee enrollment period.
Do not approve the recommended salaried employee benefit plan. This is not recommended, as
this will result in the Agency being unable to provide competitive and cost effective benefit plans
to the salaried employees.

Prepared by:
Cherie Sprague, Senior Manager

Packet Pg. 11

2.11.C

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 12

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 2, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2013

Subject:

North Metro Rail Line Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and
County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The agreement includes specific
terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution, coordination, and the rights and responsibilities of each
party associated with construction of the North Metro Rail Line within the City’s boundaries.
BACKGROUND
This IGA, like RTD’s previous commuter rail IGAs with CCD, sets forth CCD’s local match obligations
and establishes specific design and construction requirements within the City’s boundaries. This IGA
also incorporates provisions in RTD’s existing CCD/RTD Light Rail Master Agreement dated March
25, 1993 where appropriate for commuter rail.
DISCUSSION
This IGA between CCD and RTD establish the local agency contribution amount for CCD and how that
local agency contribution will be met. The IGA sets forth the commitments from RTD and CCD regarding
financial obligations, responsibilities, coordination, and cooperation between both agencies with respect
to the North Metro Rail Line.
Local Agency Contribution
The IGA stipulates that CCD’s local agency contribution will be $5M or 22% of the total local
agency contribution amount of $22.725M (2.5% of the total project cost of $909M as defined by
the 2010 Annual Program Evaluation).
The Parties acknowledge that credits held by Denver for its local agency contributions to other
FasTracks corridor projects covered by previous intergovernmental agreements between RTD and Denver
exceed the cumulative Denver share of the Local Agency Contribution for all FasTracks corridors,
resulting in an “Overmatch” which exceeds Denver’s Contribution under this Agreement. The Parties
agree that an amount of Denver’s Overmatch from other FasTracks corridors shall be applied in an
amount equal to Denver’s Contribution for the North Metro Project in full satisfaction of Denver’s
obligation to make a Local Agency Contribution for the North Metro Rail Line. If the reconciliation of
other FasTracks corridors should definitely show that this Overmatch does not exist or is insufficient to
cover Denver’s Contribution for the Project, then the Parties will take such action as necessary to amend
this Agreement or enter another IGA to assure that Denver’s Local Agency Contribution is satisfied.
The following items are also included in this IGA:


Certain terms of the CCD-RTD Light Rail Master Agreement are incorporated with no changes,
while other terms are amended as appropriate for commuter rail and this project.

Packet Pg. 13

2.12.D










Denver will be afforded opportunities to comment on any supplemental environmental studies
completed for the North Metro Rail Line within Denver’s boundaries.
Right-of-way processes are identified and clarified, including survey and monumentation and
approval of changes to final right-of-way plans.
National Western Stock Show (NWSS) station design, parking and timing are describ ed.
Land transactions required for project construction, including purchases, no-cost transfers,
exchanges and easements between CCD and RTD, are identified.
RTD cooperates with construction of fiber optic to support regional emergency
communications, providing easements and labor while CCD and others pay for materials.
RTD agrees to pay $6/sf for purchase and $2.50/sf for easements of park property, and to
fund traffic and planning studies near the NWSS station.
The parties agree to a process for determining and funding improvements related to project
construction.
RTD to provide funding toward future improvements on Brighton Boulevard as RTD’s
contribution to this work.

Summary
IGAs are required with CCD, as with other jurisdictions along the North Metro corridor, in order to define
the respective rights and responsibilities of each party, and to define the local agency share credit. The
recommendation is to authorize the General Manager to sign this agreement defining those rights and
responsibilities of RTD and CCD with respect to the North Metro Rail Line project. The signed IGA
defines coordination between RTD and CCD for the North Metro project and demonstrates that right-ofway and other coordination responsibilities have been defined.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial elements of the IGA are funded in the project budget for the North Metro Rail Line
project.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation
District. The agreement includes specific terms defining CCD’s local agency contribution, coordination,
and the rights and responsibilities of each party associated with construction of the North Metro Rail
Line within the City’s boundaries.
2.
Do not accept the recommendation of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee. This would cause
the North Metro Rail Line project to delay or stop due to lack of right-of-way, and may increase costs
due to schedule delay. In addition an IGA is required to provide for FasTracks-required local match
determination, property acquisitions from CCD needed for the project, and responsibilities and
coordination. This action is not recommended.

Prepared by:
Jim Starling, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 14

2.12.D

Packet Pg. 15

2.12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 2, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 2, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2013

Subject:

16th Street Mall Reconstruction Project
Funding Intergovernmental Agreement with the
City and County of Denver

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
between the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the Regional Transportation District. The
purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to mutually fund
a portion of the project costs to design and reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16 th Street Mall
(Blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13) within the CCD Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to
provide matching local funds necessary to receive FTA Grant Funding. Funding for this project is
included in the 2013 Amended Budget
BACKGROUND
This IGA formalizes a local matching fund cost sharing requirement needed to secure an FTA “Bus &
Bus Facilities Livability Grant” that will be used to reconstruct a portion of the Mall. The Mall
reconstruction is needed because the current granite pavers and infrastructure have been used since its
October 1982 opening. RTD began maintaining the transit lane portion of the Mall within a few years of
its opening. Maintenance costs have steadily risen from under $100,000 per year to a current value of
approximately $1Million per year. Recent repair trends indicate that this value will increase if
reconstruction does not occur. The granite, other than its friction and color loss, generally is still sturdy
and durable. The paver setting bed and grout need continuous maintenance and repairs.
DISCUSSION
A recent pilot paver reconstruction program had tested alternative grouts and setting bed
applications. Lessons learned from that program have been applied to ongoing maintenance
activities and will be considered for the upcoming reconstruction project referenced herein. The three
and 1/2 block reconstruction project grant request was estimated at $16M. It included granite
transit paver reconstruction, walkway refurbishment and urban design upgrades, as itemized from
the grant application and shown below.
1. Transitway Paver Removal, Rehabilitation and Replacement.
2. Sub-Base Reconstruction for Transit Way Only.
3. Pedestrian Walk Way In-Situ Paver Resurfacing.
4. Intersection Bulb-outs for Pedestrian Safety. (Traffic signalization, camera’s, etc. not
Included)
5. Wet and Dry Utility Upgrade.
6. Urban Design, Trees, Water Features and Irrigation Improvements
7. Mall Livability Furnishing Element Upgrades.

Packet Pg. 16

2.12.E

The FTA grant plus local match was approved for approximately 2/3 of the requested value. The
final project scope and limits will be refined during the current design process. The required local
match is 20%. The approved FTA value is $7,978,998.00 and the local match is $1,994,749.50.
The total grant and local match are $9,973,747.50.
The local match was to be shared by three parties: RTD, CCD and the DDP/BID with an equal cost
sharing of $664,915.50 per party. The City and County of Denver has agreed to provide DDP/BID’s
1/3 part plus their 1/3 share for a total obligation to CCD of $1,329,831.00. RTD’s sh are is the
remaining 1/3 - $664,915.50, which brings the collective agencies’ contributions to $1,994,749.50.
The IGA also addresses the design and construction management for the project and identifies RTD
as the managing entity. RTD will lead the design and construction management of this project with
support from stakeholder agencies. All agency direct costs with the exception of management time
will be reimbursable.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the total project, RTD’s local match of $664,915.50 and the CCD contribution of
$1,329,831 toward the local match, is included in the 2013 Amended Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD)
and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the rights, duties
and obligations of CCD and RTD to mutually fund a portion of the project costs to design and
reconstruct up to 3.5 blocks of the 16 th Street Mall (Blocks 1, 2, 12 and 13) within the CCD
Right of Way. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to provide matching local funds necessary to
receive FTA Grant Funding. Funding for this project is included in the 2013 Amended Budget.
2. Delay implementing the Recommended Action. This is not recommended because delaying the
implementation of the IGA has serious impact to the schedule and budget and ability t o utilize
approved grant funds that would cause an extended delay or possible cancellation of the project.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. This is not recommended because this would cause
major delays in project implementation and budget impacts resulting from the loss of
$7,978,998.00 in grant funding plus local stakeholder shares. The result would be escalating
maintenance costs for the proposed blocks.

Prepared by:
Stan Szabelak, Manager, Civil Engineering
Jeff Cluphf, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 17

2.12.E

Packet Pg. 18

2.12.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 9, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 9, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2013

Subject:

Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accepts the modifications to the 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement.
BACKGROUND
Proposed modifications to the Fiscal Policy Statement (the “Policy”) are brought to the Board of
Directors for approval during the year, as necessary. In addition, each year staff presents the
proposed Policy for the upcoming fiscal year for approval to the Board of Directors as an initial step
in development of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and Recommended Budget.
The most recent modification to the Policy was approved by the Board of Directors in February 2013
for the 2013 fiscal year. Those changes primarily related to the establishment of the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA) fund and to update the Policy with the most recent rating agency
credit ratings.
DISCUSSION
The current Policy includes the phrase “The Board of Directors will review potential fare increases
annually at the time of the development of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)”. In order to update the
Policy with the current practice of including fare increases in the SBP every three years to account
for inflation, this phrase has been modified as shown in the attached 2014 Proposed Fiscal Policy
Statement.
In addition, the Fund Balance Policy #6 referencing a fund to capture excess Denver Union Station
(DUS) revenue to be used for future DUS development has been removed from the Policy since the
funding for its development has been identified and development is scheduled to be completed in
2014.
All other proposed Policy policies changes are primarily wording clarification and are reflected in the
attachment.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Changing the policy as requested will not have a financial impact on the 2014 Recommended
Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the recommended changes to RTD’s 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement. Staff supports
this alternative because the changes document the policies to be adhered to in 2014 and
provide clarification of certain phrases.
2. Board further modifies the recommended changes. Staff reviewed the fiscal policies and
welcomes any suggestions for modifications requested by the Board of Directors.
3. Do not adopt the recommended changes to RTD’s 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement. This is not
recommended because RTD’s Fiscal Policy Statement would not contain all current language
and would not best facilitate the needs of RTD’s financial operations.

Packet Pg. 19

2.12.F

ATTACHMENTS:


2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Jannette Scarpino, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 20

2.12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

2013-2014 PROPOSED FISCAL POLICY STATEMENT

REVENUE POLICIES
1. Staff will plan fare adjustments every 3 years in the mid and long-term budgets to
adjust for inflation. The Board of Directors maywill considerreview potential fare
adjustmentsincreases annually at the time of the development of the Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP). As part of this process, staff will review potential fare
increases to establish a fare structure with due consideration for:
 consistency and equity throughout RTD;
 ease of use and simplicity;
 maintaining or increasing ridership and fare revenues;
 acceptability and marketability of fare structure to customers and the general
public; and
 verification and enforceability of fare payment compliance.
2. Fare policies willshould take into account the special needs of transit dependent,
elderly, youth, student, handicapped, and commuter patrons.
3. RTD will avoid dependence on temporary revenues to fund ongoing services. Onetime revenues will be used for one-time expenditures.
4. RTD will continuously explore additional sources of revenue to help balance the
budget.
5. When appropriate the Board will actively pursue legislation that would help ensure
the continued accomplishment of RTD’s goals and mission statement. The Board
will support efforts to ensure that legislative intent is realized in allocation of state
financial resources to public transit. The Board will actively oppose legislation that
would limit or diminish revenue.
6. Staff will identify on an annual basis excess property and equipment, and will
make an ongoing attempt to sell such excess property and equipment to enhance
cash flow.

1

Packet Pg. 21

2.12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143

INVESTMENT POLICIES
Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

1. RTD will review its investment policy annually with the Board to ensure
consistency with the following objectives (in order of priority):
 safety of invested funds;
 maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow needs; and
 attainment of the maximum yield possible consistent with the first two
objectives
2. RTD will review its investment performance on a quarterly basis with the Board.

EXPENDITURE POLICIES
1. RTD will endeavor to achieve service levels that will make the transit system easier
to use, improve travel times, and be more effective.
2. RTD will continue to look for and implement the most cost-effective and reliable
methods of delivering transportation services.
3. RTD will maintain all assets at a level that protects capital investment and
minimizes future maintenance and replacement costs.
4. RTD maintains a risk management program which will provide protection against
loss and mitigate exposure to liability.
5. A safety program will be maintained to minimize RTD's exposure to liability and
thereby reduce the number of claims against RTD.
6. RTD will develop service changes that are needed to respond to budget shortfalls
using the system-wide and route-specific productivity measures that have been
approved by the Board.

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT POLICIES
1. RTD will prepare and update annually a six-year Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
including projected capital construction and improvements, service levels and

2

Packet Pg. 22

2.12.F.a

operating costs, and revenues to fund the capital and operating programs. Capital
projects to be included in the SBP will be evaluated using the following criteria:
 total project cost (design and construction) and schedule for completion;
 source of funding;
 operating and maintenance costs for the remainder of the SBP period;
 benefits and contributions to RTD and the community, including but not limited
to the effect on future operating and maintenance costs, economy, service, and
ridership;
 consideration of alternatives (joint development, etc.); and
 consequences of not funding; and
 RTD mission statement elements.
2. Priority will be given to replacement of existing assets before consideration of new
assets except as allowed for in the FasTracks financial plan (see 7.).

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143

Formatted: Normal, Indent: Left: 0.5",
Hanging: 0.25", No bullets or numbering
Formatted: Font: (Default) Arial

3. RTD will use the first year capital program from the adopted SBP as the basis for
the capital program to be included in the annual budget.
4. After completion of design of a capital project, cost estimates will be revised. If
the cost estimates exceed Delegation of Authority limits, the project will be
brought to the Board for reconsideration.
5. Facilities will be designed using current technology and allow for future
technological changes in order to be efficient and cost-effective and to protect the
public welfare.
6. RTD shall allow for multi-year capital projects to be carried forward in accordance
with the carry-forward resolution adopted by the Board.
7. RTD will prepare an annual update of the FasTracks financial plan incorporating the
actual costs incurred and the most recent available projections of capital
improvement costs, service levels, and operating costs and revenues to fund the
FasTracks capital and operating programs.

FUND BALANCE POLICIES
1. RTD will strive to maintain a fund balance in the Base System and in the FasTracks
operating budget, to provide for unanticipated expenditures of a nonrecurring
nature or to meet unexpected increases in costs. This unrestricted fund balance
3

Packet Pg. 23

2.12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

will be comprised of a Board appropriated fund, a capital replacement fund and an
undesignated working capital fund as described below. For the Base System, the
total of these three funds should be maintained at an amount approximately equal
to three months of Base System operating expenses excluding depreciation. For
FasTracks, the total of these three funds should be maintained at an amount
approximately equal to two months of FasTracks operating expenses excluding
depreciation. RTD will consider and pursue resources that will be directed to fund
balance replenishment. For example, RTD may define the revenue sources that
would typically be looked to for replenishment of fund balance to include nonrecurring revenues and budget surpluses. Year-end surpluses are an especially
appropriate source for replenishing fund balance.
RTD will replenish fund balances as soon as economic conditions allow.
2. In accordance with the adopted budget, RTD will designate a Board appropriated
fund balance on an annual basis. Use of the fund balance will be minimized and
occur only in specific circumstances such as severe economic downturns. With
Board approval, these funds may be used to avoid cash flow interruptions, reduce
the need for short-term borrowing, and assist in maintaining an investment-grade
bond rating. The source of replenishment of this fund will be identified and will
take place in a prompt manner.
3. In accordance with the adopted budget, RTD will designate a capital replacement fund
on an annual basis. With Board approval, these funds will be used for scheduled major
vehicle replacements and other capital purchases. The source of replenishment of this
fund will be identified and will take place in a prompt manner.
4. RTD will designate excess and undesignated working capital that may accrue at
each year-end to be placed in an unrestricted fund to be used to respond to
unanticipated events.
5. RTD will maintain an emergency (TABOR) reserve equal to three percent of nonFederal revenues, as specified by Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado
Constitution.
6. RTD will maintain all revenues in excess of expenditures for Denver Union Station
in a reserve for future development of Denver Union Station as a rapid transit hub,
as specified in the intergovernmental agreement as amended on April 20, 2004.
7. The Board shall establish three reserves for future construction under the
FasTracks plan:

Formatted: List Paragraph, Justified, Indent:
Hanging: 0.25"

4

Packet Pg. 24

2.12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143





The FasTracks Contingency Reserve will be appropriated at a level of $30
million each year. These funds will be available to fund adjustments to the
FasTracks construction schedule, relating to logistics or cost savings
opportunities that might arise after the annual budget is adopted, and will not
be used to fund the (non-FasTracks) Bbase Ssystem capital or operating
activity.
The FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) will be used to provide funding for
future FasTracks projects that are currently unfunded. Expenditures from the FISA
will be subject to Board approval with the staff recommended project goals identified
in the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM). Funding of the FISA will be provided from the
sources identified in the Board approved RAM and other sources approved by the
Board.
All other FasTracks funds which have not been appropriated, or otherwise
designated as reserved, in the current budget year will be maintained in a
reserve for future FasTracks capital and operating expenditures and will not be
used to fund the (non-FasTracks) Base System expenditures.

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)



DEBT POLICIES
1. Capital projects funded through the issuance of bonds, or Certificates of
Participation (COPs) or other financial obligations shall be financed for a period not
to exceed the expected useful life of the asset.
2. Effective communication with creditbond rating agencies will be maintained, and a
policy of full disclosure on every financial report and official statementbond
prospectus will be followed.
3. Before bonded long-term debt is issued, the impact of debt service on total annual
expenditures will be analyzed.
4. DebtBond financing or COPs will not be issued to support current operating
expenditures.
It is the intent of RTD to maintain a high quality investment-grade credit rating. The
benefit of maintaining RTD's creditbond ratings at the highest reasonably attainable
level in light of current economic conditions and availability of capital funding is to
receive lower interest rates and lower debtbond or certificate insurance premiums
than would be possible with lower credit ratings. RTD’s current ratings are listed
below:
Classification

Senior

FasTracks

Certificates

5

Packet Pg. 25

2.12.F.a

Standard
and Poor’s
Moody’s
Investors
Service
Fitch Ratings

Bonds
(0.6%)

Bonds
(0.4%)

of
Participation

AAA

AA+

A-

Aa3

Aa2

Aa3

AA

AA

A+

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143

5. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond coverage ratio for the
Base System (annual non-FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual sales and
use tax debt service for senior non-FasTracks debt) of four times for debt backed
by the 0.6% sales and use tax. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax
revenue bond coverage ratio for FasTracks (annual FasTracks sales and use tax
revenue to annual FasTracks sales and use tax debt service) of two times for debt
backed by the 0.4% FasTracks sales and use tax.
6. RTD will maintain a minimum net revenue coverage ratio (all annual revenues
remaining after operating and maintenance expenses, net of passthrough grants, to
annual debt service requirements net of excess appropriations required for variable
rate debt) of 1.2 times total debt.

BUDGET POLICIES
1. RTD shall comply with all requirements of the Colorado Local Government Budget
Law.
2. The budget will be prepared on a program/project basis.
3. As part of the budget development process, the Board will review the current
goals, objectives, and performance indicators for use in preparing the budget for
the following year.
The Board will adopt the final performance indicators
beforeafter the adoption of the annual budget.
4. The Board will review the adopted fiscal policies annually and consider any
changes that may be necessary.
5. There shall be a budgetary monitoring system that charges expenditures against
approved budget appropriations.
6

Packet Pg. 26

2.12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143



The actual level of

7. The budget shall be prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles with
the following exceptions:
 inclusion of capital outlays and debtbond principal payments as expenditures;
and
inclusion of asset sale proceeds and debt issuance proceeds
 exclusion of gains and losses on disposition of property and equipment

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

6. The budget shall be summarized for adoption purposes.
adoption shall be determined by the Board.

Formatted: Normal, No bullets or numbering
Formatted: Font: Arial

8. A monthly financial status report shall be submitted to the Board.
9. The budget document shall be submitted to the Government Finance Officers
Association annually for consideration for the Distinguished Budget Presentation
Award, which evaluates the document as a communications device, financial plan,
operations guide, and policy document.
10. Quarterly performance reports will be presented to the Board of Directors to
assess RTD's performance on the adopted performance indicators.
11. A balanced budget in which beginning reserves plus total anticipated revenues is
greater than or equal to expenditures will be prepared.
12. Budgetary procedures that fund current expenditures at the expense of future
needs, such as postponing preventive maintenance expenditures or replacement of
equipment, will be avoided.
13. RTD will provide conservative revenue estimates that take into consideration
recent experience and reflect reasonable future growth.
14. RTD will monitor revenue sources regularly and amend the budget, as necessary,
to reflect the most current information available. RTD will also change the level of
expenditures, as needed, to maintain a balanced budget.
15. RTD will project revenues for at least six years and will update the projections
annually as part of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). Each existing and potential
revenue source will be reexamined annually.
16. As part of the SBP, RTD also will prepare a six-year operating expenditure plan
that includes projections of annual service growth plus allowances for operating
costs of new capital assets.
7

Packet Pg. 27

2.12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143

ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING POLICIES

Formatted: PJStyleHeading3, Left

1. The accounting system will maintain records on a basis consistent with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles for local governments.
2. The accounts of RTD will be reported using the accrual basis of accounting.
Revenues will be recognized when earned and expenses will be recognized when
incurred.
3. RTD will establish and maintain a high standard of accounting practices to conform
with uniform financial reporting in Colorado.
4. An independent firm of certified public accountants will perform an annual financial
and grant compliance audit and will issue an opinion that will be incorporated into
the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
5. RTD will submit the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to the Government
Finance Officers Association for consideration for the Certificate of Excellence in
Financial Reporting.
6. The accounting system will record investment activity.
7. Internal control policies will be developed and maintained to include procedures
that separate control of assets from accounting for those assets.
8. RTD will identify and account for all revenues, and expenditures, assets and
liabilities related to the FasTracks capital and operating program separately from
the Base System operations.
8.9.
A monthly financial status report shall be submitted to the Board.
9.

Formatted: Font: Arial

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

17. A budget will be prepared that contains essential programs and projects needed
to support the goals and objectives of RTD, responds to citizen demand, and
reflects administrative evaluation of current needs.

Formatted: Normal, No bullets or numbering

GRANT POLICIES
8

Packet Pg. 28

2.12.F.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective October 223, 20143

1. All potential grants shall be carefully examined for matching requirements (both
dollar and level-of-effort matches).

Attachment: 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1717 : Proposed 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

2. Intergovernmental assistance shall be used to finance only those capital
improvements that are consistent with the capital improvement plan and RTD
priorities and in which operating and maintenance costs have been included in
operating budget forecasts.
3. RTD will program its federal grant funds to minimize the time between
appropriation and drawdown of federal funds.
4. RTD will use all eligible Section 5307 formula federal grant funds for capital
maintenance projects to minimize the time between appropriation and drawdown
of federal funds.

9

Packet Pg. 29

2.12.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 9, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

October 9, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2013

Subject:

Certification of the 2014 Contribution for the
RTD Salaried Employees' Retirement Plans

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB
Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement, at the actuarial recommended amount of
$3.1 million. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to
the Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified
amount to the plan for each year of employment, at a rate of 9% of each participant’s eligible
compensation.
BACKGROUND
In December, 2007, the RTD Board of Directors closed the DB Plan to new employees with new
employees hired on January 1, 2008 and later participating in the DC Plan. In 2013, the Board amended
the contribution to the DB Plan to a fixed annual amount of $3.1 million based on actuarial
recommendations. Previously, the DB Plan had been funded on a percentage of salaries basis. In
addition, the Board approved a contribution rate of 9% of salaries for participants in the DC Plan in
2013.
DISCUSSION
The recommended fixed annual contribution of $3.1 million to the DB Plan was determined by the plan’s
actuaries to be the annual contribution necessary to maintain a “fully funded” status for the plan. The
Board of Directors agreed that beginning in 2013, annual contributions to the DB Plan would be made at
fixed annual amounts of $3.1 million rather than as a percentage of salaries as a result of the Actuary’s
recommendations.
Section 4.1 of the RTD Salaried Employees’ DC Plan adopted by the RTD Board provides that the
Employer may, at its sole discretion, set a contribution rate between 7-9% per year for participants. The
contribution rate has been 9% each year to the DC Plan from 2008 through 2013.
FINANCIAL IMPACT

Packet Pg. 30

2.12.G

Below is a summary of the current and recommended DB and DC Plan funding scenarios:

% of
Salaries
N/A

$

% of
Salaries
9%

Salaried DB Plan
2014
2013
Projected
Projected

1

8%
7%

3,100,000

$

3,100,000

Salaried DC Plan
2014
2013
Projected
Projected
$ 1,940,758
$ 1,884,231
1,725,118
1,509,478

1,674,872
1,465,513

Change
$

-

Change
$
56,527

Recommended

50,246
43,965

1

The assumed contributions indicate the different amounts that would be required to fund the plan at
9%, 8% and 7% of eligible salaries in 2014.

ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2014 contribution to RTD’s Salaried
Employees’ Pension Trust at the actuarial recommended amount of $3.1 million and Salaried
Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust rate at 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.
2. Certify an amount to be contributed to the RTD Salaried Employees’ Pension Trust and the RTD
Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust at amounts other than $3.1 million and 9%
respectively.
3. Do not authorize a contribution to the RTD Salaried Employees’ Pensions. This is not
recommended because the DB Plan’s funding status would deteriorate and the liability would
increase.

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 31

2.12.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 10, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 8, 2013

Board Meeting Date: October 17, 2013

Subject:

January 2014 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors approve
the January 2014 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an
annualized cost increase of approximately $635,500 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or
his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole while also
continuing to review the impacts of the implementation of the West Corridor Light Rail Service and the
associated bus service changes. Routine service changes not associated with or included in the West
Corridor Service Plan are necessary to maintain system on-time performance and provide the appropriate
level of service according to customer demand while we will also need to monitor customer response to
the implementation of West Corridor bus and rail service and propose adjustments as appropriate.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Eight public hearings were held between September 18 and September 26, 2013 in Boulder, Denver and
Lakewood. Comments from these meetings and the service change website are summarized in
Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following represent substantive changes proposed to
the service changes initially communicated to the Board of Directors for implementation as part of the
January 2014 service change:

Packet Pg. 32

2.12.H

Route 86X – Westminster Center Express
An additional morning trip is proposed to address passenger overloads issues.
Route 100X – South Kipling Express
Cancel the proposal to move the 6:10pm departure from Civic Center to 5:40pm.
Route 120X – Thornton Wagon Road Express
An additional trip has been proposed to address overloads experienced during the evening peak period.
Route 225 – Boulder/Lafayette/Broomfield
Running tome adjustments resulting in the need for additional resources are now proposed to allow
better connection to the Route 76 and overall on-time performance.
Route 410 – Lincoln Avenue/Parker
The proposal to curtail service between the Pinery and Parker park-n-Ride has been deleted from the
proposal.
Route P – Parker/Denver
The trip arriving Parker park-n-Ride at 4:11pm is proposed to be extended to the Pinery park-n-Ride.
Longmont Call-n-Ride
An additional vehicle is proposed to be added for the Longmont Call-n-Ride to address shortfalls in trip
availability during peak periods.
The following are to be added to the list of routes with Routine Service Adjustments:
Route AA – Wagon Road/DIA
Route AB – Boulder/DIA
Route B – Boulder/Denver
Route DASH – Boulder/Laffayette via Louisville
Route DD – Boulder/Colorado Boulevard
Route T – Boulder/DTC
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES
Service Reductions
Route 54 – Montbello Industrial Park: discontinue 9:05am and 2:05pm trips
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: reduce frequency and operate with small vehicle
Route YL – Lyons/Longmont: discontinue service due to low ridership
D-Line: propose to permanently close the 29th&Welton Station (leaving the station infrastructure intact
until the completion of the Central Corridor/Welton Streetcar study)
Mixed Service Reductions/Service Increases
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: weekday schedule adjustments in the Central Platte Valley
Route 52 – West 52nd Avenue: relocate via Zuni St./W. 46th Ave. (see map)
Route 205 – 28th St/Gunbarrel/ Heatherwood: Rename and reroute service. (see map)
Route 225 – Boulder/ Broomfield via Baseline/US 287: extend weekday service span

Packet Pg. 33

2.12.H

Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown: reroute westbound via Hover/Bent/Dry Creek and Nelson. (see map)
Route 410 – Lincoln Ave/Parker: additional trips.
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: Shift the last westbound, weekday trip.
Route BOUND – 30th Street: Interline with pull-in trips from other local routes
Route JUMP – Boulder/ Lafayette via Arapahoe: Extend long-JUMP trips to serve Arapahoe/63rd
Ranches package: shift first am trip later by 5 minutes
 Route 77 - Ken Caryl Avenue: would have minor schedule adjustments.
 Route 401 – Ranches Crosstown: would have minor schedule adjustments.
 Route 402Ltd – Highlands Ranch Parkway Limited: would have minor schedule adjustments
 Route 403 - Lucent Boulevard: is proposed to remove the Dutch Creek deviation. (see map)
Belleview Call-n-Ride: convert the flex route to demand only service
South Simms – Alameda Parkway package: 21, 116L, and 116X
 Route 21 – Iliff/Evans Crosstown: minor schedule adjustments (see map)
 Route 100X – South Kipling Express: move pm trip time in conjunction with other changes
 Route 116Ltd – Ken Caryl Limited: is proposed to be rescheduled to increase its span of service
 Route 116X – Ken Caryl Express: is proposed to have an additional trip added in each direction
Thornton/Northglenn Call-n-Ride: consolidate the North and South Thornton call-n-Ride areas
Routine Service Adjustments
Route 0 - South Broadway: weekday schedule adjustments
Route 6 – East 6th Ave/North Pecos: extend 8:30am westbound trip
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: schedule adjustments
Route 16 – West Colfax: minor schedule adjustments. (see map)
Route 16Ltd – West Colfax: minor schedule adjustments. (see map)
Route 21 – Evans Avenue: add 7:51am westbound. (see map)
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue /City Park: schedule adjustments
Route 35 – Hampden Avenue: schedule adjustments
Route 40 – Colorado Blvd: schedule adjustments
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower: schedule adjustments
Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road: schedule adjustments
Route 139 – Quincy Avenue: schedule adjustments
Route AA – Wagon Road/DIA: shift first AM trip 5 minutes earlier
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: minor schedule adjustments
Route AF – Downtown/DIA: schedule adjustments
Route B – Boulder/Denver: schedule adjustments
Route DASH – Boulder/Laffayette via Louisville: schedule adjustments
Route DD – Boulder/Colorado Boulevard: schedule adjustments
Routes ES and EV: schedule adjustments
Route T – Boulder/DTC: schedule adjustments
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder: schedule adjustments
W-Line: minor schedule adjustments
Service Improvements
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: relocate the terminal loop at West 17th Avenue/Federal Blvd. (see map)
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road: add Sunday/holiday service east of Arapahoe Station
Route 105 – Havana Street: improve weekday midday frequency to 15 minute frequency
Route 86X – Westminster Center Express: add a southbound am peak trip

Packet Pg. 34

2.12.H

Route 120X – Thornton Wagon Road Express: add a southbound am peak trip
Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA: extend 3:42am northbound trip from Nine Mile Station
Routes CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver: minor schedule adjustment
Route HX – 28th Street/ Civic Center: Add AM peak and PM peak trip
Route P – Parker/Denver: add southbound trip from Civic Center Station, extend trip to the Pinery pnR
Golden Call-n-Ride: add additional vehicle to weekday service
Longmont Call-n-Ride: add vehicle during peak periods
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact contained in this proposal is estimated at an annualized $635,500. Funding for
these changes is included in the 2014 budget request.
ATTACHMENTS:


Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A



Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary



A Look Ahead - Attachment C

(DOCX)
(DOCX)

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 35

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

Route 6 – East 6th Ave/North Pecos
Extend 8:30am westbound trip from 8th/Colorado to instead originate at Centrepoint &
Sable Transfer Center at 7:51am. Relieves overloads on the following trip at 8:06am from
Centrepoint & Sable. Annualized costs are estimated to be $10,300
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Changes are proposed for weekdays in the Central Platte Valley segment of the route. The 4:50
a.m. trip from 9th/Clermont would be extended to the Rockmont Loop, improving connections to
Union Station via the Millennium Bridge. The 5:39 a.m. trip from Elitch’s would instead start
from the Rockmont Loop at 5:36 a.m. The 5:51 a.m. trip from Rockmont would instead start
from Elitch’s at 5:54 a.m. In the evening, the trip from the Aquarium at 6:34 p.m. would no
longer stop at Elitch’s, as alternate trips are now available. Cost estimated to be $3,500
annualized.
Route 16 – West Colfax
Proposed for minor schedule adjustments and a change to the Downtown turnaround,
which will be rerouted to facilitate use of articulated buses: eastbound from Colfax via
Grant Street, 13th Avenue, Bannock Street, West 11th Avenue to terminal. No change in
westbound route. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 16Ltd - West Colfax
Proposed minor schedule adjustments involving the Downtown turnaround rerouted to
facilitate use of city transit buses: eastbound from Colfax via Court Place, Broadway, and
16th Avenue into Civic Center Station. No change in westbound route. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
This proposal is for minor schedule adjustments related to relocating the terminal loop at
West 17th Avenue/Federal Boulevard to match alignment of through trips from NREL. No
cost impacts anticipated.
Route 21 – Evans Avenue (see also South Simms Package)
Add 7:51am westbound trip from Centrepoint & Sable to Evans Station is proposed to
relieve overloads on both the 7:36am and 8:06am westbound trips. Cost estimated to be
$25,900 annualized.
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue/City Park
Schedule adjustments are proposed due to congestion on West 32nd Avenue. No cost impacts are
anticipated.
Route 35 – Hampden Avenue
Minor schedule adjustments and route change at Hampden- Acoma Street. No cost impact
anticipated.

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route 0 - Broadway
Weekday running time adjustments; annualized cost increase is estimated to be $62,000.

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

Route 52 – West 52nd Avenue
Realign from current route at West 50th Avenue and Zuni Street via Zuni Street, West 46th
Avenue on to current route at West 46th Avenue and Pecos Street. New alignment brings
service directly to a recently enlarged senior housing development and reduces duplication
with Route 6. Current alignment serves stops for 93 weekday boardings, 60 Saturday
boardings, and 30 Sunday & holiday boardings, of which approximately one-third are
transfers with Route 6, which instead would be available at the intersection of West 46th
Avenue and Pecos Street. All of the affected passengers would remain within walking
distance of Local Routes 6, 44 or 52. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 54 – Montbello Industrial Park
Discontinue 9:05am trip (0 passengers) and 2:05pm trip (1 passenger).
Annualized cost savings are estimated to be $10,000.
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road
Add Sunday/holiday service east of Arapahoe Station to Arapahoe Crossing Shopping
Center. Sunday service hours to match Saturday service on this segment 7:00am to
9:00pm. Cost estimated to be $35,300 annualized.
Route 86X – Westminster Center Express
An additional morning trip is proposed to address passenger overloads issues.
Cost estimated to be an annualized $9,500.
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus
Reduce frequency from every 30 to every 60 minutes, and operate with small cut-a-way
style vehicle. Service frequency matches overall demand, will reduce neighborhood
impacts in Stapleton. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 100X – South Wadsworth Express (see also South Simms Package)
Minor adjustments in morning departure times are expected.
Route 105 – Havana Street
Improve weekday midday frequency to a consistent 15 minute frequency. Current
frequency is 15/15/30, leading to overcrowding and schedule adherence problems on trips
following the 30 minute gap. Cost estimated at $62,000 annualized.
Route 120X – Thornton Wagon Road Express
An additional trip has been proposed to address overloads experienced during the evening
peak period. Cost estimated to be $12,800 annualized.
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower
Schedule adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route 40 – Colorado Blvd
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed. No cost impact anticipated.

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013
Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road
Schedule adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.

Route 205 – 28th St/Gunbarrel/ Heatherwood
Rename route to better reflect area served: 28th St/Jay Rd/Heatherwood
Adjust trip patterns, bi-directionally to reduce confusion of current routing (eastbound
backtracks on westbound and vice versa); change start/end of route to Pearl/3rd vs.
14/Walnut; running time adjustments on Sat/Sun, no cost impact anticipated
Route 225 – Boulder/ Broomfield via Baseline/US 287
In combination with interline to Route BOUND, extend weekday service span to match
Saturday; add one northbound trip between US 36 & Broomfield PnR and Lafayette PnR,
with a leave time of 10:05pm from US 36 & Broomfield PnR, to provide late night
connection from Route 76, due to a customer request. Add an additional vehicle due to
address on-time performance issue and to improve connection to Route 76. Cost
estimated to be $56,850 annualized.
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown
Reroute westbound via Hover/Bent/Dry Creek and Nelson) to avoid rail-road crossing and
possible trip delays (agreed upon with City of Longmont in meetings held for Apr 13
service changes) No additional cost anticipated.
Route 410 – Lincoln Ave/Parker
- Add new afternoon trips at 2:24pm and 3:24pm eastbound from Lincoln Station,
and at 2:58pm and 3:58pm from Parker Park-n-Ride. Expands service to midafternoon school ridership peaks, provides earlier service for early departures from
downtown Denver and elsewhere connecting via LRT at Lincoln Station, including
relieving overloads on first southbound Route P trip. Cost = 2.0 hours.
- Add new morning trips at 7:51am eastbound from Lincoln Station, and 8:19am
westbound from Parker Park-n-Ride. Provides improved late peak service for Parker
residents. Cost = 1.0 hour. Cost estimated to be $31,500 annualized.
Route AA – Wagon Road/DIA:
It is proposed to shift the 1st east-bound AM trip back by 5 minutes to allow for an earlier
arrival at DIA to better serve DIA employees shift start time at 4:00am and other minor
schedule adjustments. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route AB – Boulder/DIA
Shift the last westbound, weekday trip to a leave time of 12:13x versus the current
11:41pm to allow for better connections from late night flights into DIA. Minor schedule
adjustments. Cost estimated to be $5,800 annualized.

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route 139 – Quincy Avenue
Schedule adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013
Route AF – Downtown/DIA
Running time adjustments, no cost impact anticipated

Route B – Boulder/Denver
It is proposed to adjust AM peak trip times to better balance passenger loads, no cost
impacts anticipated.
Route BOUND – 30th Street
Improve operational reliability by improving recovery after 7pm on weekdays.
Cost estimated to be $52,700 hours/weekday
Routes CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
It is expected that the new Pine Junction Park-n-Ride will be opened during this fall. Minor
schedule adjustments will be made for this change. In addition, the first eastbound Route CS trip
is proposed to operate five minutes earlier than at present. Cost estimated to be $8,200
annualized.
Route DASH – Boulder/Laffayette via Louisville
It is proposed to adjust running times in the AM peak westbound and PM peak eastbound.
Route DD – Boulder/Colorado Boulevard
It is proposed to adjust the AM trip times to better balance trip levels along US 36 and to
avoid bunching of 3 or more buses at various PnR’s along the US 36 corridor. No cost
impacts are anticipated.
Routes ES and EV – Evergreen/Denver
It is proposed to set the departure time of Routes ES and EV seven to eight minutes earlier on the
first three trips from Evergreen Park-n-Ride to Civic Center Station. No cost impact anticipated.
Route HX – 28th Street/ Civic Center
Add one AM peak trip and one PM peak trip to alleviate overloads; adjust running times
between 19th St/Wynkoop and Civic Center Station in both directions Cost estimated to
be $31,700 annualized.
Route JUMP – Boulder/ Lafayette via Arapahoe
Due to completion of the Arapahoe Road construction, Long-JUMP trips will now serve the
new on-street stops at Boulder Technical Education Center (Arapahoe/63rd) instead of
accessing the stop inside the Boulder Valley School District property. Route patterns and
related trip times will be adjusted to reflect this change. No cost impact is anticipated.

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA
Extend 3:42am northbound trip from Nine Mile Station to instead originate at Arapahoe
Station at 3:28am. Provides important employee start time service for Arapahoe
customers. Cost estimated to be $4,600 annualized.

2.12.H.a

Route P – Parker/Denver
Add southbound trip from Civic Center Station at 3:15pm, relieving overloads on the
current first afternoon trip at 3:45pm. Also, move 4:20pm southbound trip to 4:30pm, for
improved load distribution with 4:45pm trip. Extend the 4:11pm trip leaving Civic Center
Station to the Pinery park-n-Ride from its current terminal at Parker park-n-Ride. Cost
estimated to be $27,000 annualized.
Route T – Boulder/DTC
Minor AM trip time and running time adjustments to allow for better connections at
Arapahoe Station are proposed. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder
It is proposed to shift the first south-bound trip 6min earlier, to allow for better regional
connections at Boulder Transit Center. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route YL – Lyons/Longmont:
The Route YL is a Boulder County sponsored CMAQ grant funded service that was
implemented in January 2012. Ridership on this service has leveled off at
10 boardings
per day, which is far below the RTD Service Standard for its service type. It is proposed to
discontinue this service. No cost savings would be realized by the RTD, due to the grant
funding of this service.
D-Line Light Rail
This proposal recommends the permanent closure of the currently temporarily closed station on
the Welton Street segment of the Central Corridor. Since January of 2013 stops on the D-Line
service at the 29th & Welton Station have been temporarily discontinued; as part of the effort to
improve schedule adherence on this segment of the Light Rail network. As previously stated in
the January 2013 Board Report, delayed trains affect our customers’ connections with bus
Routes 12 and 43, as well as some transfers for Routes 28 and 38. Additionally, train delays
from this area cascade throughout the system affecting on-time performance on the system as a
whole. Efforts to address the current problem, which stems from the downtown Denver signal
cycle timing change, include the City of Denver’s implementation of traffic signal priority
measures at the intersection of Park Avenue and Welton. The signal improvements and the
elimination of stopping at the 29th Welton Station resulted in a reduction in train delays from
34% of trips on the Welton segment to 17% along the single track section along Welton. Please
see map for more information. No operational cost impacts are anticipated.
W-Line Light Rail
Schedule for weekdays and weekends will have slight adjustments, based on operating
experience. No cost impact anticipated.

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

2.12.H.a

Ranches package
Route 77 would have minor schedule adjustments.
Route 401 would have minor schedule adjustments. The 8:18 p.m. westbound and 8:42 p.m.
eastbound trips are proposed to be discontinued, due to low ridership [4 passengers total] (-1
weekday hour).
Route 402Ltd would have minor schedule adjustments. (+2.5 weekday hours if no saved bus in
Route 403)
Route 403 is proposed to be removed from the Dutch Creek deviation. It would continue to
serve Highland Heritage Regional Park from University/Lincoln. It is proposed to discontinue trips
from Littleton/Mineral Station at 8:44 a.m. and from Lincoln Station at 8:52 a.m. due to low
ridership [11 passengers total] (-1.5 weekday hours for trips cut, additional savings from
removing deviation). No cost impact anticipated.

South Simms – Alameda Parkway package
Route 21 is proposed to be returned to its former alignment from West Jewell Ave. via West Yale
Ave., Bear Creek Blvd., and Alameda Parkway and return. Service levels will remain unchanged.
Route 100X would have minor schedule adjustments.
Route 116Ltd is proposed to be rescheduled to increase its span of service, covering times not
covered by Route 116X, as well as retaining the most utilized trips in both morning and afternoon
peaks. Proposed arrivals at Federal Center Station are at 5:48, 7:18 and 8:48 a.m. Proposed
departures from Federal Center Station are at 2:55, 4:25, 5:45 and 7:10 p.m.
Route 116X is proposed to have an additional trip added in each direction, with some trips
rescheduled. Arrivals at Civic Center Station would be at 6:34, 7:14, 7:44 and 8:23 a.m.
Departures – subject to adjustments for gate availability – would be at 3:35 p.m., 4:40 p.m.,
5:25 p.m., and 6:10 p.m. No cost impact anticipated.
Call-n-Ride
Belleview Call-n-Ride began operating in January 2012 under a Congestion Mitigation Air
Quality Improvement Grant (CMAQ) sponsored by the Denver South Transportation
Management Association. The Call-n-Ride serves the Denver Technological Center out of
the Belleview Station. In the pm period the Call-n-Ride has been operating a flex route
south of Belleview Ave. Because of the low ridership of the flex route, it is recommended
to discontinue the flex route and have the Call-n-Ride serve our customers by demand
only. No cost impacts are anticipated with this proposal.
Golden Call-n-Ride began operation in April 2013 with the opening of the West Line Light
Rail under a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality Improvement Grant (CMAQ) sponsored by
the City of Golden, the Colorado School of Mines and the RTD. The Call-n-Ride operates
one vehicle as a Flex Route and one vehicle as a non-flex route Call-n-Ride. Ridership has
been rising since opening to over 9 boardings per hour. This proposal calls for an
additional 12 hours of Call-n-Ride service be added to the service. Cost impacts are
estimated to be $150,009 (including fuel) annualized.

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

Thornton/Northglenn Call-n-Ride began operating in December 2003 and the South
Thornton/Northglenn Call-n-Ride began operating in August 2007. These Call-n-Rides are
divided by 112th Avenue. Customers routinely transfer between the two Call-n-Rides at
112th Avenue. This proposal calls for a change that will allow customers to book a trip in
either service area without a transfer. Customers will call the Call-n-Ride that their trip
begins in and will be able to travel to the other Call-n-Ride area without a transfer. No cost
impacts are anticipated with this proposal.

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Longmont Call-n-Ride began operating in February 2001. The Call-n-Ride currently
operates three vehicles during peak periods in the Longmont community. During the
school year, the Call-n-Rides are booked with student related trips. This proposal is to add
an additional vehicle during the school year to be used specifically for students thereby
allowing the regular Call-n-Ride to be used for non-student trips. Annual Cost impacts are
anticipated to be $55,000.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2013

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Attachment A
August 8, 2-13

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment A (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.a

Packet Pg. 51

Public Hearing
18 September 2013
RTD Rooms T & D
12:00pm
This meeting was attended by three members of the public, 12 RTD employees, and two
RTD board members. Comments were received in support of additional trips on Route
116X. Comments were also received against making any changes to Route 100X. A
passenger also spoke in favor of improving connections between Light Rail lines at Auraria
West Station at off-peak hours. The meeting was concluded at 12:17.
Public Hearing
18 September 2013
RTD Rooms T & D
6:00pm
This meeting began at 6:30pm and was attended by one public participant, one RTD staff
member and RTD board member Director Natalie Menten. Comments were received in
support of additional trips on Route 116X. The meeting ended at 6:45pm.
Public Hearing
19 September 2013
Civic Center
6:00 pm
This meeting was attended by 9 members of the public and RTD Board member Natalie
Menten. RTD Staff in attendance included Jeff Dunning, Robert Rynerson, and Chris
Marko. Comments and suggestion were heard regarding Routes: 9, 16L, 32, 116X, EV,
and the W light rail line. Much of the discussion centered on the Route 116X service
change with participants offering suggestions for alternative times.
Public Hearing
19 September 2013
Boulder YMCA 2800 Mapleton Ave,
7:00pm
This meeting was attended by four members of the public, RTD Board member Director
Judy Lubow, Nataly Erving, Nate Diaz and Dave Menter from RTD staff. Requests for
increases in service to the Route 225 and an offer of assistance from the local chapter
National Federation of the Blind were comments heard. The meeting officially closed at
7:48pm.
Public Hearing
19 September 2013
Central Park Recreation Center
7:00 pm
There were six member of the public attending along with Directors Malpiede and Menten
and Service Planning & Scheduling staff Jeff Dunning, Chris Marko, and Cesar
Ochoa. The meeting ran from 7:07 – 8:45 p.m. The six attendees spoke exclusively of
RTD’s maintaining the Route 89 on 29th Ave. Negative comments regarding home values,
public safety, and an ‘Out-of-date’ green book, or master plan of the community, were
repeated. There were questions about a larger, non-RTD sponsored, April meeting

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

2.12.H.b

2.12.H.b

Public Hearing
21 September, 2013
Green Mountain Recreation Center
1:00 pm
This meeting was attended by 12 members from the public and two RTD Board Members;
Director Bruce Daly and Director Natalie Menten. Staff in attendance included Robert
Rynerson, Doug Monroe, and Diane Marquiss from Service Development and, Joy Volz
from Access-a-Ride. Much of the discussion centered on the proposal for Route 21 and WLine light rail operations/connections.
Public Hearing
21 September 2013
Chaffee Park Senior Residences
9:00am
This meeting was attended by 32 members of the public, three RTD employees, and two
RTD board members. Support was expressed for the proposed change to Route 52 that
would travel immediately adjacent to the senior residences. Current bus service is difficult
to access from this facility and many residents are dependent on RTD service. It was also
requested that RTD make their bus schedules more accessible by producing them in large
print.
Public Hearing
26 September 2013
Glenarm Recreation Center
6:00pm
This hearing was attended by eight members of the public, three RTD employees, and one
RTD board member. Support was given for the permanent closure of the 29th & Welton
Station to help on-time performance on the D Line. It was also asked that RTD not just
abandon and neglect the station after closure, but to do something useful with the site.
Constituents also spoke on the proposed Central Corridor where support was given for
continuing as light rail to 38th & Blake Station. It was also suggested that there be more
warnings for pedestrians at Switch 21 when delayed trains are able to continue.

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

regarding the same subject. There were also questions about why the bus stops were
placed in different locations relative to the transit street improvements.

2.12.H.b

Additional Comments from Service Change Email, Petitions, and TIC
Support

BX

1

26

Opposed

ES
89

1
1
1
1
1

BN
116X
100X

1
1
1

10

1

401

1

205
116X

1
1

116

1

402X

1

100X

1

100X

1

P

Additional Comments
Last Name

Pearen

116X
P

Inquiry/
Complaint

1

116X

1

100X

1

403

1

Parking

1

Changes to accommodate slip
ramp should be made.
Rowland
Bus stop at Wadsworth Station
dangerous
Spruitenburg Suggesting route changes - no
stops in Ken Caryl
Likes earlier bus - Should be at
3:20 or later
Prefers no change to times
LaFarr
Caffrey
in favor of 30 minute headways
Sniff
Proposing earlier leave time for
first trip
Howard
In favor of more trips
Raiser
Opposed to dropping route
Clinton
Standing loads/busses passing
up passengers
Berg
Opposed to cancellation of last
trip
Messenger
Wants specifics on changes
Gill
Supports more time - still wants
a non-stop KC route
Larsens
Opposed to cutbacks in service
Shagena
No sufficient service in area Call n Ride doesn't work at
all/filled up
Brown
Eliminating route would make
trip home impossible.
Janata
Opposed to cut in service - it is
NOT replaced by 116X service.
Maret-Smith Need more service and better
times
Stephens
Changes have added too much
time to daily commute
Hime
Commute now takes adtl 15
minutes
St. Hilaire
Opposed to closing Dutch Creek
Post office stop
Hillen
Lack of parking throughout
system

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Route

Packet Pg. 54

2.12.H.b

1

116X

1

Highlands
Ranch Calln-Ride

1

Battle
Sweeney

Shagena

Laber
P
P

1
Clark
Jackson

1

120X

1

P

1

McGovern
Burroughs

24

1

P

1

120X

1

HX

1

HX

1

Carter
David
Malloy

P

Fraser
1

Edwards
Jampica

1X

1

10

1

24

1

StocklinSteely
Powers

116X

1

P

1

FLEX

1

Santoro
Houston

Wilson

Request route similar to DM
coming from the South area
Poor leave times/poor
connections
Always FULL - no service
provided unless you're already
in system
Nice to add extra time - but 3:15
too early - 3:25/3:30 would be
much better
Great changes - will help riders
Buses standing loads/passengers
waiting/mess with school
starting up
Need additional service - but
3:15 too early
Bus needs to get to Dry Creek &
University 5 minutes earlier to
service school kids

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

Anschutz

Need additional service - but
3:15 too early
Need more service after 9:20
AM
No shelters during construction no curb/hard to step up on
buses
Need more buses/dangerous for
passengers to stand on highway
Request to route P to Union
Station
Would like more areas added to
route, i.e. Santa Fe/Valley
Business Center/etc
Great route - too
crowded/standing loads/passing
up passengers
County Line/University pickup
needs to be 5 minutes earlier to
get kids to Arapahoe HS on time.
Happy about adtl times
Need additional service - but
3:15 too early
Work better connections at
Federal Center

Packet Pg. 55

2.12.H.b

1

20

1

120X

Feldman
CriddellTapanen
Barnes

1

103/101

1

66

1

Maes
Tesar
Vancil

116X
P

1

100X
AB

Clark
Jensen

1
1

Gottlieb

1

89
BX/BMS

1
1

77

1

17

1

401

1

GMCNR

1

105

1

89

Karly
Bailey
Mellentine
Perry
Schaubs
Griffin
Kulik

1
Heit

Total
Route

1001

11
Support

23

Need additional service - but
3:15 too early
Route needs Limited or Express
service - takes way too long
Buses standing loads/passengers
waiting/mess with school
starting up
Connection currently works please don't change it
Proposed changes to Route 66
to better serve area
Good that there's extra service;
but should be between 3:35 and
5:25 - after 6:00 really not
necessary
Very happy with adtl service
Opposed to dropping 6:10 pm
trip
Happy with adjustment to last
trip
Opposed to cutbacks in service
Route change suggestion
Asking for better connection to
Lt Rail
Would like Rt 17 reinstated to
Golden as before
Suggestion for change to
schedule
Suggestion for changes to
service
Please with adtl weekday service
- possibly ending "no shows"
Enjoys and uses service - very
upset to see service cutback already no evening or weekend
service.

Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

P

24

CSR Complaints Received by TIC by route
Opposed
Inquiry
Summation of typical complaints
1

Schlauder

Changes won't work 116X
doesn't serve Kipling

Packet Pg. 56

2.12.H.b

1

Sindy

DASH

1

Davis

Total

0

3

Opposed to cutback in service certain ridership will pick-up
Please don't remove the Table
Mesa @ 39th Stop
Attachment: Board Report January 2014 - Attachment B summary (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

89

0

Petitions
53
Total

63
85
Total Communications

Residents of Chaffee Park Senior Center would
like detour to remain to provide service for
residents/new facility/no sidewalks in area

149

Packet Pg. 57

2.12.H.c

With the opening of the Union Station Bus Concourse routes currently serving the Market
Street Station and surrounding area will be redirected to access the new facility. With this
change our customers will be accommodated by the 16th Street Mall Ride and 18th and
19th Street Circulator at Union Station. Services impacted by this change include Routes:
0, 6, 15Ltd, 31X, 40X, 55X, 72X, 80X, 86X, 104X, 120X, BF, BMX, BV, BX, L, LNX,
LSX, LX, S and AF. Additionally, changes are expected on Routes HX and 122X; though
these services terminate at Civic Center Station, expected growth in passenger demand
will require adjustments to the service levels of these routes. Minor schedule adjustments
will be made in nearby Routes: 10*, 28, 32, and 44* (Routes marked with an asterisk
change in January 2014)
Public information and input efforts will begin with meetings held at Blake Street on
November 15 and 20, 2013. The meetings along with direct mail and stakeholder contact
will inform constituents and customers of the upcoming changes and probable impacts.
The public input process would conclude during the normal public hearing process for the
May 2014 Service Change currently slated for February 2014.

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: A Look Ahead - Attachment C (1710 : January 2014 Service Changes)

A Look Ahead: May 2014 – Union Station Opening

