Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 15, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
June 14, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Brohl,
Deadwyler, James, Malpiede, and McMullen.
Director Tayer arrived after the meeting began.

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, O’Boyle, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Bell, Larry Buter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Libby
Cox, Bob Downes, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara
McManus, Tony McCaulay, Anthony Menendez, Bob Mickelson, TaiShrae Parish, Dan Pearsall, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff,
Stephen Reilly, Steve Ruim, Jeanette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John
Shonsey, Chris Sills, Greg Smith, John Stark, John Tarbert, Christina
Tubb, and Mike Washington.

Others Present:

Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Chuck Easterling – DTP, Stan Gronek – ATU
1001, Robyn McVicker – Urban League, Chris Robertson – Urban
League, and Katrina Wert – CCD
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Approval of August 2011 Service Changes
Jesse Carter indicated that in this proposed change for August the most notable

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 2 of 4

change is route 15L. Also, there had been very low turn out to the 5 public hearings
with a total of only 7 public participants which means these changes are viewed as
positive, or very few people will be affected.
Director Anderson noted that the AB route - Boulder to DIA had a complaint regarding
the time change. Jesse Carter explained that staff had received the complaint, and it
was noted. We will also keep this information on file and consider it when making
future adjustments.
Director Deadwyler asked if the public participation hearings are only to inform the
public of what changes will be made, whether they like the changes or not. Jesse
Carter explained that the public service hearings are a two way conversation
between staff and the public and some of their questions were regarding changes
that were put in place back in May.
Bruce Abel added that we often find ourselves trying to balance the needs of a few
individuals versus the needs of the larger public.
Director Tobiassen noted that he spends a lot of time at the East Metro garage and
indicated that the drivers are very vocal regarding routes and what changes should be
put into place and staff is very responsive to their comments. Also, Council woman
Berzins from Aurora would like the AT run through Centrepoint.
Bruce Abel explained that we highly recognize and value the input from our
operators. Over the years, we have tried to institutionalize the opportunity for that
type of input and currently Service Planning staff goes to each operating division at
least once per run board to visit with the operators to find what works and what
doesn’t since they are at the first line of service.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 21, 2011 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in a net annualized cost of approximately
$272,000, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

Motion:

Director Brohl made the motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 21,
2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 3 of 4

II.

Information Items
 Introduction of new Bus Operations Staff:
Greg Smith – Manager of Competitive Services
Chris Sills – ADA Safety and Training Compliance Officer
Bruce Abel introduced these new managers to the Board.
 Call-n-Ride vehicle graphic redesign
Tony McCaulay explained that this graphic redesign is for the Call-n-Ride program,
not the Access-a-Ride as notated in the Agenda. Stephen Riley noted that the Call-nRide campaign advertisements and brochures have changed, and the vehicles will be
white and green to match.
 Demonstration of handheld fare enforcement device
John Tarbert noted that this is the testing and training device of the handheld fare
enforcement device that is currently being used by all fare inspectors.
Bob Mickelson explained that this device has two modes, scan and search. Search
mode allows for information to be manually entered into the device from a photo ID
or other type of identifying document if a Drivers License is not available to be
scanned.
Bruce Abel asked Mr. Tarbert to indicate to the Board what the next step would be if
someone was issued a warning and stopped again a short time later. John Tarbert
explained that even though the initial warning might have been issued less than an
hour prior, the individual would still receive a $50.00 ticket for their second fare
evasion violation.
Bob Mickelson added that on tickets issued, all fines are payable to the county courts
and RTD does not receive any of that revenue.
 Smart Media Technology update
Bruce Abel noted that in terms of bus and rail installations we are not where we
would like to be with regards to our schedule. Technical issues have been identified
and we are continuing to work with the vendor to resolve these issues before the
smart cards are introduced public.
Director Tayer inquired as to what the technical issues are, and how are we
communicating the delays to those individuals signed up for the smart card
demonstrations. John Stark indicated that the technical issues encountered are due
to complex wiring schematics, which the vendor is currently reviewing. Bruce Abel
added that we have been in conversation with people at the call center and they have
been attempting to keep those individuals signed up for the demonstrations up to
date and we are not currently commutating target dates until the technical delays are
completed.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 4 of 4

 CAD/AVL update
Bruce Abel noted that all items on the report dashboard are green, and there are no
issues to report.
 Schedule of upcoming events regarding service changes
Bruce Abel explained that this is the reminder for next week’s Board Meeting to
address the August service changes, and the next round of service changes will be
addressed in August for implementation in January 2012.
III.

Other Matters
None

IV.

Next Meeting Date – July 12, 2011

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 6:43 p.m. to the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee.

