2023-07-07
Audit Committee Meeting
BOBBY DISHELL: The Friday, July 7th Audit Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of
1:13 PM. I respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak. Thank you all for joining us this afternoon.
Please note that the committee hearings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
Board meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable from the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com.
And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on your phone,
press star 6. I would now like to call the role for the committee. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Committee member Brendel. Committee member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I am here. We have four committee members present, which is a quorum. I do not
see any other directors present.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Are
there any hands?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: There are no hands raised at this time.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And no comments were submitted to the Board Office. With no participants
in the queue, we will close public comment at this time. There is one recommended action on the agenda.
That action is for the 2022 annual comprehensive financial report and report to governance. And I'll turn
that over to Doug MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Dishell, and good afternoon. Yes, this is the action item, requested
action item to accept the 2022 annual comprehensive financial report into the RTD records as well as the
single audit, which is the audit of federal awards.

Joining me today is Pam Hill, partner with Plante Moran, and Chris Gilbert, a manager with Plante Moran.
I'd like to thank you both very much and your teams for all the work that you've done and guiding us
through some of these new GASBs. I know they've been tough for us to undertake.
And along with that, I really want to thank Byron Aten, who is our senior manager of accounting. He and
his team did a lot of extra work this year along with Plante Moran just to these new pronouncements that
have come out. But with that said, I think, Pam, you're going to present a few slides to us. So take it away
when you're ready. Thank you.
PAM HILL: All right. Thank you. Chris is going to share his screen here. And thank you, everyone , for the
opportunity to be here this afternoon on a Friday afternoon. Who doesn't want to talk about audit, right?
So we'll make this as short and sweet as you would like it, but we definitely do want to cover the results of
the audit and just talk a little bit about the process here. So Chris, if you don't mind going to the first slide.
So overall, here's all the deliverables that you should have included in your packet in what you hire Plante
Moran to provide. We did spend over 1,100 hours this year auditing these various reports, including the
financial statement and single audit, as Doug had mentioned, as well as several other reports. So as you
noted in your packet, you did have the annual comprehensive financial report or the financial statements.
We did provide our audit opinion on those financial statements, which was, once again, an unmodified
opinion, the highest level of assurance you can receive from your auditors.
Also included in there was the end of audit letter. I think probably what's most important maybe to all of
you is what's not included in this end of audit letter, which we did not have any findings related to internal
controls over financial reporting and RTD. So that's great news. Your team continues to do a great job.
And with that, I do kind of want to echo Doug's comments. I really want to thank Doug, Byron, and the
entire team. The amount of time we spend is a lot, but your team spends even more time getting ready for
us and then answering all of our questions and stuff throughout the audit. So we really appreciate all the
effort given by your team to help make the audit go as smoothly as possible.
We did also have the federal awards audit or single audit report. Again, happy to report no findings there.
And Chris is going to talk in a few slides just on some of the numbers related to the federal spending at
RTD this year. Then we also do perform two agreed upon procedure reports related to national transit
database reporting and then some procedures related to the general manager contract, as requested by
the Board. So both of those have been provided to RTD actually earlier than the financial statements this
year. So we've had those finalized for a little while here.
So on the next slide, I just want to touch briefly on some of the risks that we identified at the beginning of
the audit. So if you recall prior to the audit starting, we have a conversation with the audit committee. We
talk about what our plan is for the audit. So these next few slides are really going to take us through the
results of what our plan was. And if we had to deviate from our plan, we would talk about that here.
I think what you're going to find really on most of what the next few slides says is that we carried out our
plan as we had communicated to you back earlier this year. And we didn't need to deviate from the plan.
So you'll notice that we really focused on GASB 87. And again, Chris is going to talk a little bit about that
process a little more in a few slides.

And then also on the COVID funding. And we are happy to report that we didn't have any findings as a
result of the additional procedures that we performed related to those risk areas. So Chris, if you want to
flip to the next slide. There you go. Thank you.
Also, we do talk about the fact that we are expressing an opinion based on professional standards. And I
know we talked about the fact that we use materiality and a risk-based approach throughout the process.
So we don't look at every transaction that occurs at RTD during the year. And we're happy to report we
didn't note any transactions that were entered into during the year that lacked authoritative guidance or
consensus in terms of how those should be reported in the financial statements.
And then on the next slide, there are a few significant accounting estimates included within the financial
statements. And again, Chris is going to touch on the pension liabilities in a few slides. But obviously
those are just one big estimate. So based on a lot of different factors, including market, mortality tables,
and the like. So we do spend time auditing those assumptions to make sure that they seem reasonable
and in line with plan provisions and then also obviously the useful lives of your capital assets.
The only new accounting policy was GASB 87. And we did have one past adjustment. This adjustment's
been similar for the last several years and it's just a disclosure related to the 401(a) retirement plan and
the money weighted rate of return. And then we did date our opinion letters all on June 27. So a few
weeks ago. And then, Chris, if you want to turn to the next slide, I am going to turn it over to you. Thanks.
CHRIS GILBERT: All right. Thanks, Pam. So I'm going to pick up on some legislative and informational
items. So we always like to include this in our letter and our presentation to you just some relevant
legislative and informational items that we believe it will be of interest to you.
So a couple of highlights here. So in the ACFR, there is a calculation of net investment and capital
assets. And this first one right here is just a little more informational. And just a reminder that the new
GFOA requirement for the certificate of achievement and the new requirement was effective last March.
But it essentially requests that the district includes the calculations of the net investment and capital
assets report on the statement of net position as part of the submission package that's sent each year to
the GFOA. So just a reminder there.
The next one is regarding cybersecurity. So as you all are well aware, this continues to be a hot topic.
And with all the services that RTD provides, including rail, among others, this is just something that RTD
is going to have to continue to focus on just to continue to meet FTA requirements and just really to
protect against all cyber risks. And with that, we just encourage you to continue to just work with your
technology team on this and really just let us know if we can be of any additional assistance.
And then as Pam mentioned earlier, GASB 87. This was a new accounting standard that was effective for
fiscal year 2022. So this new standard at a high level gave guidance on the identification and reporting of
lease activities. So this really did have a significant impact on RTD. And the ACFR does include several
new disclosures in the footnotes. There's also a new lease liability and lease receivable on the statement
of net position for lease activities. And that's where RTD is either the lessee or the lessor.
So the additional disclosures and line items on the statements are really a result of the culmination of a
significant amount of time that the RTD team put together months before the audit and throughout just
reading through several agreements, doing research, performing calculations, and really consulting with
us. And we spent a lot of time auditing the conclusions reached. So we definitely appreciate Doug and

Byron and their team's efforts in just implementing the standard and all the work that went forward with
this. This year of implementation is certainly the most involved.
But we also want to stress the importance of implementing ongoing monitoring procedures over lease
activities just to ensure that there's a process in place to identify and appropriately account for new lease
activities or changes to existing lease agreements on an ongoing basis going forward, at least on an
annual basis, just to ensure any new lease agreements are captured. You've got a good foundation here
with all of with all the conclusions that were reached this year. So just going forward as you enter into new
lease agreements and as any existing agreements change, you'll just want to make sure to keep up on
that.
And then at the end of the audit, end of audit letter, we always like to have upcoming accounting
standards. So what's on the horizon. So we've included all of the upcoming accounting standards in that
letter that may potentially impact RTD in 2023 and going forward, including GASB 96, which that one
does have a lot of similarities to GASB 87. So we do have toolkits and resources that we've already
forwarded to your team, but we will continue to work with your team to help implement that new standard
and any others that will be applicable to RTD going forward.
So with all the new accounting standards released in the past several years and looking forward, you're in
the same boat as many others in the industry where you have the same amount of people and there's just
more work and responsibilities and financials. And the financials continue to get more complicated and
cumbersome. And we obviously are here to help as well with the team to implement those standards.
So really quick, I'm going to cover some legacy costs. And the first one is for the ATU pension plan. So
this is showing the last five fiscal years. And as you can see here, at the very bottom for the fiscal year we
just audited, the unfunded liability for the plan was just under 250 million, which is about 55% funded at
the end of the fiscal year. So the percentage has been trending up in terms of the percent funded.
One thing we did want to point out here was that these numbers are at a specific point in time. And these
are actually on a one year lag. So for example, the 12/31/22 fiscal year that we're reporting on right now,
at the bottom it's really as of 12/31/21. And that's because the measurement date based on the actuary
and what the district elected is a year behind.
So with that being said, we know that there was a one time $160 million contribution made in early 2022.
So because of that one year lag, that large additional contribution is not yet being reflected here. It's going
to be reflected in the plan's net position next year. So we also know that the market was down in 2022.
So again, that actual activity that happened in 2022 won't be reflected until 2023 because of that one year
lag. So with that being said, even though the market was down in 2022, because of that large additional
contribution, we would expect next year the plan's net position and the percent funded to increase
substantially from the 55%, if that makes sense.
And then jumping to the salaried employees pension plan. So this slide has a very similar concept. So I'll
spend a little time on here. So similar to the ATU plan, the salaried employees plan is on a one year lag.
So 12/31/22 is really 12/31/2021 plan activity. And obviously this is not reflecting the market being down
in 2022 as a result. But regardless, at the end of the year, at this point in time, the percent funded ended
at just under 84% with an unfunded liability in this particular plan of about 29.7 million.

And then moving on to the last slide here and then we'll address any questions. As Pam mentioned
before, this last slide does show a trend analysis for the past five years. And it's really total expenditures
of federal awards that RTD received. So this is essentially the total amount on your CFA each year. And
we include this slide really to discuss total grant funding and how much you're spending as well as how
much of it was COVID funding versus regular transit spending.
So as you can see here on this slide, fiscal year 2022 total expenditures of federal awards was just under
300 million, which is pretty well in line with fiscal year 2021. Over 99% of this amount in 2022 was related
to the federal transit cluster from the US Department of Transportation. And then also about $208 million
or nearly 70% of this spending was from COVID-19 funding related to ARPA funds.
So you'll notice here in the middle the reason 2020 was so much higher was really because of the
Transportation Infrastructure Finance or TIFIA program. And that was about 340 million extra in federal
expenditures that had been awarded-- federal expenditures of those funds in 2020. And that makes up
most of the difference. So if you take that out, it's been pretty consistent the past three years for the
federal transit spending.
So I know we just threw a lot at you. I guess that's the last slide that we have. So any questions on
anything Pam or myself have covered so far?
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Mr. Chair, this is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please proceed.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. So before we start any discussion, could we just get a formal motion and
a second on the record to adopt the ACFR?
PEGGY CATLIN: I move that we adopt the ACFR.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I see a first by Director Catlin and a second, I believe, was Director
Davidson. Mr. Olenberger, I see you have your hand raised as well.
JOHN OLENBERGER: That was for another question, but we can move on with this first if that's the
correct order.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think we're open for discussion now.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, please proceed.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK, I'll go ahead since I had my hand up there. Just on the pension funding, is
there a place that we want to be or a best practice in terms of percent funded for the pension plan? And is
it a concern that the union pension plan is at 55% while the salary is around 80?
PAM HILL: So maybe I'll say something really quick, and then Doug, maybe if you want to jump in on the
union plan. So I think in dealing with different plans throughout the country, a good benchmark is being in
that 70% to 80% funded range. Because you're always going to have years where maybe you fluctuate
above or below.

And so the salary plan, obviously, is right in that sweet spot. And I will let Doug maybe touch on the ATU
plan and kind of the things that RTD has done, as Chris mentioned, to get that funding percentage up. So
Doug, if you want to maybe take that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Pam. Yes, and it's a great question. The ATU plan was actually as low as
35% funded a few years back. So we really had some concerns about that plan. And up to that point,
essentially what was happening is RTD was making contributions according to the collective bargaining
agreement. That was the only contributions that RTD was making and the employees made their 5%
contribution. There were some market swings and the big thing was that the contributions weren't enough
to keep up with the benefits being earned.
So with the 2022 through 2024 collective bargaining agreement, the ATU and RTD agreed to close the
ATU pension plan to new employees. And along with that closure, RTD contributed a lump sum of $160
million, as Chris had mentioned. If you just do the straight math on that without the actuaries involved, it
puts that plan above 80%.
Because that plan is closed now, as is the salaried plan, it's really a tail off in benefits to where it
eliminates a lot of that financial risk to RTD. And then in place of the ATU pension plan for new
employees that are hired January 1st of this year, 2023 and beyond, any represented employees would
now participate in a new defined contribution plan.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Great. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Any other questions? Director Davidson, I think I saw your hand. Is it still up? Please
go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks Mr. Chair. I appreciate it. One question I have, and first of all, thank you
Plante Moran for all the work on this. Always great to see no findings. That's great. And Byron, Doug,
thank you for the work.
It sounds like this GASB 87, massive impact, particularly on the debt side. I'm curious, and this may be
more a question for Doug and your team, but also from Plante Moran, did this impact how we account
specifically for our certificates of participation? And did anything materially change in our accounting
around the COPS.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Davidson, excuse me, and I'll ask Pam and Chris to supplement
my comments. But essentially what it did is the private sector actually preceded under FASB, Financial
Accounting Standards Board pronouncements for the private sector. GASB is Governmental Accounting
Standards Boards implemented pretty much the same standard for government agencies.
And what it did is operating leases, so a lease that's treated as an expense as opposed to a long term
lease of a capital asset, which is more of a capital lease, those operating expenses were already flowing
through the financial statements. Then capital leases weren't on the balance sheet. They were essentially
shown as future commitments in a footnote.
So what GASB 87 did was essentially put the asset and the liability on the balance sheet for any of those
capital leases. So in my opinion, it really just had the effect of grossing up the balance sheet. And it
wouldn't have any impact on the certificates of participation or our debt. It's included in our debt,
essentially, or I think it's in our other long term liabilities on our balance sheet. But it's not necessarily
debt, per se. Pam, Chris, anything to add to that?

PAM HILL: No, I would agree, Doug. I mean, I think it basically was the big gross up of the balance sheet.
And it changed the definition of a lease. So as Doug stated, there used to be two different types of leases.
And it basically just completely changed the definition and maybe sculpt in some things that you wouldn't
have even thought of at leases in the past, which is why I think it took so long, because obviously you're a
very large organization and you have a lot of contracts.
So just to make sure there's not any underlying leases in some of those contracts was a lot of work. But
yeah, I would agree that from a income statement perspective, the impact was very minimal. But it was
mainly a kind of a gross up of the balance sheet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That makes sense. Quite the lift. Thank you to the team for that lift. Thank you. That's
very clear. Mr. Chair, if I may just add another question, unrelated, and I know this goes a little bit outside
the scope of the audited financials, but Chris, I just noted that you paused in the legislative items and
considerations mentioning information technology and cybersecurity considerations.
And you made a note of just encouraging the agency to have an eye on this. I know no findings in the
statements, but were there any observations that you had in looking at our expenditures or anything
about our agency that brought you to say that? Or is it more just a general comment? Basically anything
specifically noted with respect to RTD.
PAM HILL: So I think it's a great question. And I know Doug and in team are well aware. But there's been
some additional requirements from the FTA related to cyber and the reporting requirements assessments
and things like that. It's a much more hyper focused lens on it in the transit space, especially in the rail
space, because if someone were to hack into that, the impact could be catastrophic.
So we mainly bring it up because it is something that has been a more recent I don't want to say mandate
but requirement of the FTA just related to the reporting and the items that need to be done. And I'm sure,
and Doug you can speak to this probably more than I can, but I'm sure your team's all over what those
new requirements are in needing to do it. But that's mainly why we bring it up, because it is a relatively
new thing that has come through from the FTA.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Understood. Yeah, thank you very much for that. I think as we continue on some
of our internal audits, just appreciate the additional clarity on why that was noted here by you all. Yeah,
thank you. This is great.
The final point I just would make, I'm encouraged to see that there were no findings, especially as this
was our chance to really get a look at the CRRSA and ARPA and CARES funding, which was one time,
unusual, different. Still I think a lot has changed with that funding with there being the clawbacks being
discussed, granted with the carve out being for transportation.
But I think the only other question I have there, and again, Mr. MacLeod, this may be for you, is are we
fully past now any of the risks associated with both extending the funds, accounting for the funds? I know
this was a bigger lift this year and looking back at how those were done. But just where are we in terms of
both spending and accounting for what was pretty unprecedented levels of one time funding?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, thank you for the question, Director Dishell. And certainly that was a fantastic
thing for RTD because sales and use taxes at the same time were growing. So what we were able to do
is basically because of that additional funding bank more of our sales in the use taxes into investments.
And investments, it was actually good timing because in the investment returns that we're getting are 4%

to 5% on US treasuries and we're limited to the types of investments we can do. So they have to be safe,
which is basically US treasuries and US agency securities.
So we've been maintaining a balance of a little over $1 billion in cash and investments ever since we
drew the remainder of those funds. And I don't see that deteriorating in the mid-term financial plan that we
will bring to the Board in September. Part of that money is-- most of that additional money is so far
earmarked for state of good repair items that need to be caught up.
We've got some significant items out there with most of our rail infrastructure coming up on 20 to 30 years
of age. So I do anticipate much of that money to be spent but not to the point where it would threaten our
reserves per our fiscal policy. So I would say we're in very good financial shape because of that.
I would add that we did draw all of the CARES, CRRSA, and ARPA money by the end of last year, 2022,
with the exception of $53 million in supplemental ARPA funding. That 53 million was from a prior mid-term
financial plan in which we showed a gap of $53 million over the six-- actually it was closer to $60 million
over the six year period. So we applied for supplemental ARPA funding, received that approval, and
Byron's team just threw that down at the end of May. So we've drawn all of the COVID money that's been
apportioned to RTD.
Our whole intent along the way was to draw it as quickly as we could so we could get it invested and
earning some money. We're on pace to earn about $30 million in investment income this year. In past
years, recent past years, it's been single digit millions just because interest rates are so low. So I think
we've gotten a double good impact from that funding there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, that's awesome. OK, great moves. Well, yeah, all good moves. And I know we
made some smart moves at that. So again, glad to see no findings on the accounting of that and the
drawdown of that last year. That's awesome. Awesome work. Thank you so much that, Mr. Chair. That
concludes the questions that I have.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. So I had a question on I noticed that there was a decrease in fare
revenue between 2021 and 2022 because of the free fare for better air. And I noticed in 2023, we're doing
two months of that instead of one month. So this is kind of a half financial question, half operational
question.
Is the drop in fare revenue completely offset by-- I understand it's state funding. I think the financial
statements actually said that, that we had a decrease in fare revenue, but it's offset by increase in a grant
from the state or state funding. Did that completely offset it? That's the financial question.
And then it's branded free fare for better air. Is that the only intent or is there also we're also trying to
increase ridership? And if we are trying to increase ridership and awareness of the system and public
transit, are there things that we're doing to monitor that and see if that free fare for better air, if that
program is effective in trying to increase ridership that, as we all know, dropped significantly since
COVID?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, this is Doug MacLeod. I can take that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, please proceed.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yeah, very good question. So the way we accounted for the 2022 0 fare
for better air grant funding was, as you said, it shows a drop in fare revenue. In 2022, RTD received $7.4
million from the Colorado Energy Office under that grant. We recorded it as grant funding so it doesn't
show up in the fare revenue, which is why that drop is apparent there.
Regarding offsetting, so we had budgeted $9.2 million for that month. And we'd actually over budgeted
our fare revenue throughout 2022, not knowing coming out of 2021 what-- we expected more of a return
of ridership during 2022 at the time we put together the budget. That did not materialize. So if you were to
look at the trend in revenue by month, that $7.4 million is pretty close to what our monthly trend was. So I
would say yes, it did replace.
However, we did see a fairly large increase in ridership, although we did not add service. We added a few
extra cars to trains but didn't actually need them, so we didn't incur a lot of extra costs for that 0 fare for
better air period during 2022. So I would say it was pretty much a wash. By the way, that 0 fare for better
air grant was 80/20. So it was 20% local contribution by RTD and 80% was covered by the CEO grant.
This year we'll be doing the same thing or we are doing the same thing in July and August. So it's a two
month program. And I don't remember the full amount of the grant. I want to say 12 million. I think it might
be 15 million, actually. 15 million and that is 100%. So it's not an 80/20. It's 100% covered by the CEO
grant. I anticipate that to fully cover the grant funding. And we don't anticipate additional expenses other
than some marketing campaigns, which were on the order of about $236,000. So I think we'll be in pretty
good shape.
Last year we did see about a 20% increase in ridership. Or I guess we haven't really built any
expectations about what would happen this year. But we would anticipate an increase in ridership again
this year similar to last year. I don't know what that looks like yet. We're only a few days in. And the way
we gather ridership, it takes about two weeks after month end to actually get all the automatic passenger
count or data in from all of our vehicles that are out there roaming around. So we'll have a pretty good
idea at the end of or middle of August how July went and then same thing the following month.
And what we did last year is provided a report to the CEO office that just spoke of our experiences and
also the ridership impact that occurred with the 0 fare for better air program. We anticipate putting
together some of that information again this year based on those results as well. And it includes things
like incidences, security and safety incidences that may have occurred as well. So I hope that answers
your question.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Yeah. And when you talk about the 20% increase in ridership, is that just during 0
fare for better air or is that continued ridership after the program ended? And do you have a number for
increase in ridership if any after the program ended?
DOUG MACLEOD: That's a good question. And one of the difficulties we have is making those
comparisons. Because essentially it was a 20% increase in ridership from July to August, but we also
noticed some seasonality in our ridership, especially during the recovery or as we emerge from the
COVID impacts to ridership. So we cannot completely put our fingers on how much of that was new riders
versus just people using it more type of thing or normal customers.
There's also seasonality because of summer where we have students riding. So you go from July into
August and it changes the paradigm there a little bit. So yeah, I think generally speaking, we did see that.
It popped up a little bit in August. Then as you go into September last year, you would see it. I'm sorry.

Yeah, it was August last year. And then you go into September and then school comes back in session.
So it's really kind of tough to compare on a trended basis.
But we have seen our ridership kind of steadily maintain at that 60% of pre-COVID levels ever since that
time. So I wouldn't say it was a big bump and then it sustained. It was kind of a big bump and then it
flattened back out to 60%. And I would say it was up in the 65%, 70% range during 0 fare for better air
last year.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And I think did the financial statements say that it was at 40% of pre-COVID
levels? So I mean are you saying that now we're at 60% of pre-COVID levels?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, so it wasn't a jump in one month. It was trended. So we dropped as low as
actually 30% of pre-COVID levels when the lockdowns were in effect. So that was just for a couple of
months. And then it steadily kind of grew back up to the 40%, 50% range.
So it didn't pop from 40% up to 60% from July to August, which was 0 fare air for better air last year, but
we did see just if you look at that trend, it did bump up on our recurring ridership. And there's all these
nuances. So we have paratransit services that popped up a little bit more than the rest of our services.
There's non-revenue services like our mall shuttle that we took out of that calculation, et cetera. So it
wasn't a clean 20%, per se.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And final question. Where is ridership trending in 2023 so far?
DOUG MACLEOD: We're still maintaining about that 60% pre-COVID level. And we're trying to get away-that's just a good way to put it in context. We're trying to get away from comparing it to pre-COVID
because it's changed so much. So just for discussion purposes, I would say now that we see that trend
really kind of sticking where it is at the level that it is currently and has been for many, many months, I
think that's kind of where we expect it to be. And part of it too that would impact some of the ridership is
we implemented a system optimization plan. So a lot of things changed to where it's really hard to have
an apples to apples comparison pre and post COVID.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Chair. And thanks for that discussion. And Mr. Olenberger, one thing
I wanted to note just in that. It was a great line of questioning and I think as we think about the finances
going forward, one of the major risks to the agency that we've talked about on the Board for a couple of
years now and are starting to look even more closely at is the dependency on one revenue source. I
mean, even though small moves in fare revenue just further amplify the fact that we're so dependent on
just the sales and use tax source of revenue.
So one thing I wanted to note about the 0 fare last year is we did get a report that went through just a
statistical analysis of the response to it and the increase in ridership. And as Mr. MacLeod was
highlighting, largely it was very difficult to get the comparison.
One thing that was interesting to me was the analysis on whether there was elasticity of demand. This
has always been a question in my mind here and it's very hard to measure in transit, as I've come to find
out. There was only one area where elasticity was-- you could really point to the data and somewhat
confidently say there's some elasticity of demand in there, which was in our paratransit services.

So in other words, with the lower cost, having that increase was a pretty clear correlation in paratransit. I
do think that that represents an opportunity long term for the agency for us to be thinking about what
types of partners we might pursue. And so Mr. Olenberger, for the sake of the record and also since we're
discussing financial risk here, we have started talking about a pilot program that we're working on right
now for 0 fare for youth. And there's a long term opportunity with that to try to seek partners.
The agency could do a short term pilot of this to really explore elasticity and explore how we respond. But
it also represents an opportunity to perhaps bring in partners that could bring in alternative funding to
sustain something like that. So paratransit was one thing from that 0 fare that stuck out, at least in my
mind, as another area we might want to explore down the road for the same reason.
So anyway, I think for this group, it's good just to think about as we're looking at financial risk to the
agency. Expecting that demand to stay about where it is I think is reasonable. And then measuring things
we can do to adjust demand from the levels we're at right now is something we should probably keep an
eye on. So anyway, I just figured I'd note some of those things. Thank you.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I would just want to add that Director Davidson had put together a kind of a
white paper on some of these strategies for alternative funding that might be helpful to share with our
non-director audit committee members. So I found that to be really quite useful as we move forward.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, does the Board Office need that to be pre-forwarded to distribute out to the
committee?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would appreciate it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson, would you mind just telling me that the Board Office? Pop it to their
inbox and then we can get that distributed out.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, if it's the document I'm thinking of, I'll send that. If I don't send the right one, let
me know. And also I think we'll have more-- I think we'll have better things to share moving forward as we
start to formalize some of the efforts. I think the finance and planning committee will get some
opportunities to hear from Mr. MacLeod about suggested approaches to even digging in deeper on that.
So I can share that out, but it was just really from the brainstorm from our retreat. And so I think it
contains just some free thinking that isn't well refined. But I'll find that and I'll forward that to the Board
Office.
PEGGY CATLIN: I still thought it was a great start and kind of along the lines of what you were sharing
with Mr. Olenberger. I just think it would be helpful.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Is there any other discussion on this item? Is there further presentation?
Looks like it's the end. OK. I am going to call for the vote. Are there any no votes? With four in favor, 0
no's, and one absent, the motion carries. Are there any other matters to come before the audit
committee?

Great. Seeing and hearing none, we are adjourned as of 1:55 PM. Thank you everyone so much for your
time. And we'll see you all soon.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Have a good weekend.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you so much, everyone. Thanks, team.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.

