Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Corrected Minutes

Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 13, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held April
12, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Chair Kemp, Directors Anderson, Bagley, Brohl,
Deadwyler, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, and O’Boyle.
Directors Riley and Tayer arrived late.

Board Members
Absent:

Director James.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jessie Carter, Joe Christie, Rick Clarke, Carolyn
Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Lisa Fliam, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Tom Hughes, Dan Jackson, Austin Jenkins, Barbara McManus,
Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Tai-Shrae Parish, Carla
Perez, Trent Radcliff, Scott Reed, Jeannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Errol
Stevens, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb – Denver Post.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Recommended Action
Bruce Abel indicated that these two action items would authorize RTD to integrate these
agreements within the Belleview and Federal Heights corridors, and allow RTD to receive
grant funding. At the end of the 2014 time period, when the grant funding expires RTD
will determine if these services will be continued since RTD will be responsible for
continued funding after that point.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2011
Page 2 of 4

Committee Chair Tobiassen indicated he would entertain a motion to move these two
action items together.

Agreement of Funding the Belleview call-n-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize in General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the South East Business Partnership (SEBP)
and/or South 1-25 Urban Corridor Transportation Management Association (SEUCTMA) for
SEBP/SEUCTMA to provide local match funding to RTD for the Belleview Call-n-Ride. This
Agreement is for the period 2010-2014


Agreement for Funding the Federal Heights call-n-Ride

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary for RTD to enter into an Agreement with the Cities of Federal Heights,
Northglenn, Thornton and Adams County for the assignment of the CMAQ grant awarded
to the City of Federal Heights to operate a new Call-n-Ride service to the RTD in order for
RTD to provide the service and for the Cities and County to provide local match funding to
RTD for the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride. This Agreement is for period 2012-2014.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to forward these
two items to the full board at the April 19, 2011
Board meeting.

Second:

Director Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley inquired if the local governments
were aware that these services could go away
at the end of the designated time period. Bruce
Abel indicated that our agreements with each
city have a notation within them that indicate
services are subject to end once an agreement
term is fulfilled.
Directory Daly asked how RTD would determine
to continue or deny services beyond an
agreement term, and Director Malpiede added to
the question by asking what happens when a
grant ends. Bruce Abel noted that when a grant
ends, RTD will be responsible for continued
funding of a service. An examination is
completed by RTD to see if the potential for
good ridership is available, and the area must be
self sustainable. If those factors are not met, the
service will not continue past the agreement
term.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2011
Page 3 of 4

Vote on
The Motion:
II.

The motion passed Unanimously.

Information Items
 4 Car train operations
Austin Jenkins noted that there were three factors relevant to 4-Car Train Operations:
 Preparations
o Station Modifications
o Traction Power Modifications
o LRV Modifications from 1200 to 900
 Downtown Denver Signal System
o Change from 75 second cycle to 90
 Benefits
o Greater Operational Flexibility
o Reduces numbers of standing passengers and those left
behind
Director Brohl noted that the crosswise crosswalks in Downtown Denver were all covered
up and inquired if that was due to the 4 car train. Bruce Abel noted they are known as
Barn’s Dance Crosswalks, and indeed they are going away. Their removal will help us get
the trains across in a timely manner, and Federal Regulations are changing, prompting the
city to remove them for compliance issues.
 Update on DUS and WC cutovers
After meetings with staff, it was noted that only a single consolidated shutdown will be
needed. This will occur between July 23rd to August 14th 2011. The new schedule will
lessen the impacts to customers and improve our ability to communicate these changes.
 Parking Management Update
Errol Stevens explained that a 16 member panel had been compiled to test the new pay
stations, and to navigate the RTD website. Survey results indicated that it was difficult to
locate parking information on the RTD web page, and the new pay stations screens were
too dim, messages were not clear enough, and the bill receptor was too low. All issues
presented are being looked at again, and updated except for the bill receptor. Due to ADA
compliance, it must be located in a certain position and that cannot be changed. The next
steps are to Advance improvements to the customer interface, Retain and improve
automated accounts, modify future student exemptions to full time students only,
consolidate internet resources, and introduce pay by phone.
 Timeline for August Run Board
Bruce Abel noted that the information for the August Run Board will most likely be benign,
but it will include proposed service reductions, to impose better service improvements.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on April 12, 2011
Page 4 of 4

 IT Tech Briefing
Carla Perez indicated that a 100 slide power point presentation had been made for the
Board, but a condensed version was provided in the Board Packet, the focus being on the
traveler, and how they receive info. Trent Ratcliff directed the attention of the directors to
the screen to the RTD web site. The main page interactive system is where new
information is being added. My Stop will pull up the stop number and tell you the next
three available times for that location. Parking Management is being updated to include a
map, rates, and available lots. Online tools now include pass purchase, Access-a- Ride and
Call-n-Ride requests.
Director Tayer offered up an explanation of his statement on page 4 of the Operations and
Customer Services Committee meeting. He stated he wanted to make sure that there are
mandatory procedures for the operator to alert TIC to delays created by construction, etc.
and for TIC to posts these driver alerts on the website.
III.

Other Matters
None

IV.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned to Financial Administration and Audit Committee at 7:10 p.m.

