1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
Wednesday, November 18, 2020
REMOTE
8:00 AM
Conference Dial-in # 720-443-6193
Conference ID: : 389 820 203#

Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
B. Safety Moment
C. Public Input
D. Discussion/Questions form Directors - Proposed Re-Organization Presented
11/11/2020
E. Reorganization Revision of TS Roles and Responsibilities

• Security Model Reorg Phased Approach
F. High Level Budget Review of Reorganization
G. Community Outreach Proposal
H. Quarterly/Semi-Annual Monitor/Review/Report Plan
I. Outline of White Paper Deliverable
J. Other Matters

K. Next Meeting Date - November 24, 2020
L. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.E.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO

Date:

From:

Michael S. Meader, CSO/AGM,
Security & Asset Management

GM

Date:
Subject:

Safety,

Board Meeting Date: November 18, 2020
Security Model Reorg Phased Approach

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Board Ad-Hoc Meeting 11-18-20 (DOCX)

Prepared by:
Nicole Carey, Administrative Specialist
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.E.1.a

Ad-hoc Committee Briefing November 18, 2020

Future Revisions of TSO Security Officer Roles &
Responsibilities
The current RTD Security Model is considered to be a “Hybrid” approach whereas Transit
Security Officers work in tandem with RTD Transit Police and Secondary Employment Transit
Police Officers throughout the District. Currently, Security Officers are utilized for Fare
Enforcement, Bike Patrols, Facilities Security, Critical Infrastructure Protection and as First
Responders in Mobile Vehicles.
Transit Security Officers are a highly effective method to provide staff and ridership with a
visible security presence and should always remain a part of the model. However, as stated
previously, because of tremendous growth throughout the District, increased infrastructure,
ridership, and exposure to potential liabilities, it is recommended to reallocate many of these
services to professional POST certified police. It is recommended to work towards a reduction of
TSO Security Officer responsibilities as shown below.
✓ Work towards the Elimination of Security Officers Responding to Emergency
Calls. Facility & Infrastructure Patrols are permittable for Crime Prevention.
✓ Work towards the Elimination of Contracted Security Conducting Solo Fare
Enforcement. Gradually replace this service with “Train Conductors or Crew Members”
that are managed by Light Rail & Commuter Rail Operations. Security Officers may be

utilized for fare enforcement under direct supervision for special events, such as Bronco
games.

✓ Work towards the Elimination of Enforcement Action. This includes
“Suspensions” or Trespassing Complaints.
Note: These changes should be phased in as professional police response capabilities are
mobilized to assure rapid response to disruptions to RTD’s safe operations.

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: Board Ad-Hoc Meeting 11-18-20 (4401 : Security Model Reorg Phased Approach)

Security Model Reorg Phased Approach

1.E.1.a

Roles of Transit Security Officers

✓ Focused on Visibility, Customer Service & Safety, not Apprehension.
✓ Observe & Report Emergencies. Defensive weapons are only to be utilized for the
protection against death, serious bodily injury, or harm to the security officer or member
of the public.
✓ Friendly Customer Service. Connection to services, directions and public service.
✓ Liaison to Law Enforcement & Emergency Medical Services.
✓ Special Assignments. Such as, guarding critical infrastructure, RTD facilities, areas
with active issues, crowd control, assisting law enforcement with events where large
groups are utilizing transportation, etc.
Talking Points
An unarmed Security Officer only has verbal de-escalation as an option to protect themselves
and the community that we serve. They receive no use of force or training as a means to
protect themselves or others. The recruitment profile is usually for an entry-level applicant that
often has limited experience.
Armed Transit Security Officers receive additional training on firearms, and other less lethal
options such as pepper spray and a baton. They also receive training on de-escalation and use
of force. The recruitment profile and licensing for this type of position is much different and is
much more stringent. To be assigned to the RTD account an applicant must have life
experience in at least one of the following: corrections, law enforcement or military police, in
addition to previous firearms experience.
According to research conducted by the Transit Research Board, about 62% of agencies the
size of RTD utilize some form of armed security program. Studies have shown that an Armed
Security Officer offers a visual deterrent to criminal activity that is much more effective than an
unarmed security professional.
Use of Force Expectations
Transit Security Officers shall not use physical force against persons unless the TSO reasonably
believes that such force is necessary to protect themselves or another individual from imminent
bodily harm or death. The extent of force employed must not exceed the minimum amount of
force necessary to counter the threat and may be employed only for as long as the threat
persists. The current contractor (Allied Universal) considers any time an employee physically
touches another person, to achieve a desired level of compliance, to be a use of force. This

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Board Ad-Hoc Meeting 11-18-20 (4401 : Security Model Reorg Phased Approach)

✓ Highly Visible Assignments to Fixed Post & Facilities. Security Officers are
effective in the reduction of security investments and are effective in providing ridership
with cost efficient security measures and thus freeing up police officers for response to
calls for service.

1.E.1.a

includes any time an officer uses his/ her hands, body, defensive tactics or equipment, less
lethal weapons, or firearms in the course of their duties. This also includes the display or
brandishing of any weapon.

Not in the capacity of a Transit Security Officer. (TSO’s) Transit Security Officers should not be
seen as a replacement for law enforcement. The State of Colorado allows for a citizen to make
an arrest for a crime directly observed in their presence. However, knowledge of Colorado
Revised Statutes (the law) is NOT part of the training TSOs receive. Therefore, arrests are
highly discouraged. An arrest made by a TSO causes an escalation in engagement, posing a risk
to the TSO and the arrestee. In addition, there is a liability risk for unlawful detention/arrest
when a person who has not been adequately trained restricts the freedom of another. It is for
these reasons, that TSOs (just as any other citizen) will assist only at the direction or lawful
order of a police officer to arrest. TSOs are not authorized to detain. Any handcuffing done
must be fully compliant and without resistance.
Responding to calls for service:
TSOs are able to directly address a threat to serious bodily injury or loss of life within their
presence. However, responding to traditional law enforcement calls for service is not preferred
an may not be appropriate. For example, an active assault is occurring in their presence- they
can intervene using appropriate use of force protocols. TSOs shouldn’t be dispatched to an
active use of force as a first responder.
How Many TSO’s at Full Roll-out?
The recommended reorg request that has been presented actually reduces the overall number
of full-time deployments. We believe that the number of Armed TSO staff will be greatly
reduced with the elimination of armed response and armed fare enforcement at the end of the
5-year reorganization period. Exact staffing numbers are considered Security Sensitive but can
be shared in Executive Session if desired.
Will the Transit Police Division Reduce the Number of Contracted Police?
Yes, a reduction in size and scope of duties would be necessary to help fund this internal
expansion. However, we believe it is vital to continue to work with our local jurisdictions with a
contracted police deployment. An internal police expansion will offer RTD a greater ability to
interface with our ridership and staff effectively, however, our mission is to focus on being the
best at “Community Partnership Style Policing.” Having the partnerships will allow our officers
to continue focusing on providing one on one problem resolving services, while counting on our
partners to assist us with serious criminal offenses.
Final Thoughts
Further, it is our desire to also focus on working within the communities, schools, outreach
partners and to have representation within RTD’s Civil Rights Division, to become a model
Transit Policing Agency. Having partnerships and Intergovernmental Agreements (IGA’s) for

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Board Ad-Hoc Meeting 11-18-20 (4401 : Security Model Reorg Phased Approach)

Can a Transit Security Officer Make an Arrest?

1.E.1.a

contracted secondary employment police services helps bring regional officers into “our-house”
as members of our team.

Because budget details contain Security Sensitive Information regarding security deployments
detailed information will be provided in Executive Session or via email if desired.

Attachment: Board Ad-Hoc Meeting 11-18-20 (4401 : Security Model Reorg Phased Approach)

High Level Budget Detail:

2021
Phase 1

2022
Phase 2

2023
Phase 3

2024
Phase 4

2025
Phase 5

Total

-

-

-

1,615,000

1,625,000

3,240,000

970,000

2,255,000

1,800,000

135,000

125,000

5,285,000

970,000

2,255,000

1,800,000

1,750,000

1,750,000

8,525,000

Budget- Officer Transition
New Positions
Allocations
970,000

2,255,000

1,800,000

1,750,000

1,750,000

8,525,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

9

19

18

18

18

82

Secondary Police
Reallocations
Security Contractor
Reallocations
Sub Total

Difference

New FTE Counts

Notes:
2021 Budget for Off Duty Police is ~$4.7MM
2021 Budget for Security Contract is ~20.6MM
Additional Budget required in 2021 to ensure security levels are maintained
during transition (to be provided).

Packet Pg. 7

1.E.1.a

There has been discussion about the level of community outreach that is taking place during
our committee meetings. I would like to recommend that we consider a new model for
Community Outreach that will move us away from the “snapshot of this point in time” input
we typically get during the brief period of time a committee meets; to an ongoing process
that provides an opportunity for continuous input from the community as we implement this
strategic Security Reorganization.
I would propose that Directors schedule or attend scheduled community events along with
Mike Meader and/or other representatives from the RTD Transit Police division at least
quarterly to have a dialogue with constituents and better understand concerns, needs, and
partnering opportunities that will allow RTD to enhance the Security model as move through
each phase of the Reorganization. I believe that face to face conversations provide the most
candid and effective exchange of information and understanding.
This input along with other important data streams can be shared with the board at regular
committee meetings to inform and help steer the continuous improvement and
reorganization of the security RTD provides its employees and customers. The final details
of this proposal will have to be worked out with the board members, but I believe this is the
way to go and it aligns with our Transit Police Community Partnership Style Policing strategy
as well.

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Board Ad-Hoc Meeting 11-18-20 (4401 : Security Model Reorg Phased Approach)

Community Outreach Proposal

