Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, May 12, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 7:54 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Absent
Present

7:58 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:54 PM
7:55 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

7:52 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

7:54 PM
7:57 PM
7:51 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

7:52 PM
7:45 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:55 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

7:55 PM
7:53 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

7:53 PM

Director Anderson and Director Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Tara Bettale, Sarah
Camacho, Rick Clarke, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Kim
Heldman, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Nehemiah Hall,
Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKenna, Lorna Moritz, Bob Rizzuto, Roger
Sherman, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• State Legislative Liaison Services Contract Renewal
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter
into an agreement for state legislative liaison services with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option
(June 30, 2015 through June 29, 2016) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001,
at a cost of $117,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Francone seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair Folska thanked Brandeberry~McKenna for
their superb job. She noted that the firm is always responsive
to all the Directors. Committee Chair Folska expressed how
impressed she is with the firm’s professionalism.
Director Tobiassen said that he would write the contract just
for Megan Wagner, Director of Client Services for
Brandeberry~McKenna. He thanked the firm for their hard
work. Director Tobiassen expressed his full support of this
contract.

Director Francone commended the firm for their great work.
She said that as a political geek she appreciates their efforts.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Tina Francone, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman from CRL Associates updated the Directors on the Denver
municipal elections. He noted that Mayor Hancock’s win was not a surprise.
The election of Timothy O’Brien as City Auditor was surprising. He noted
that a few Denver District elections will go to runoff elections on June 2nd
since no candidate received a 50% plus 1 vote.
He informed the Directors that the Metro Transportation Dialogue meeting
will be on May 21, 2015. He said he is trying to find his way to that
meeting as it seems that no one from RTD will be present.
Roger Sherman said that the summer Colorado Counties Inc. Conference will
be held in Keystone from June 1-3. The summer Colorado Municipal League
Conference will be in Breckenridge from June 16-19. He mentioned that the
search for RTD’s General Manager remains a “top of mind” issue to the City
and County of Denver as well as other stakeholders.
Committee Chair Folska asked Roger Sherman to send the Directors the
conference schedules.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Jenifer Brandeberry thanked the Directors on behalf of Julie McKenna and
the rest of the firm’s staff for the opportunity to continue to represent RTD
at the State Legislature.
Jenifer Brandeberry noted that the legislative session wrapped up. She
pointed out that during the last days of the session compromise and
bipartisanship were key to passing legislation. She explained that SB18272, Authorize New Transportation Anticipation Notes (Trans bonds) failed
because it was introduced late without any compromise or bipartisanship.
She highlighted SB221 on Public Transit Officers as an example to

bipartisanship. Jenifer Brandeberry commented on the great work done for
the bill by John Tarbert, Acting Assistant General Manager for Safety,
Security & Facilities.
Julie McKenna explained that SB15-177 HOA Construction Defect Lawsuit
Approval Times, passed the Senate but was defeated at the House of
Representatives. She noted this was due to the House Speaker, Hon.
Dickey Hullinghorst, being opposed to the legislation. She expects the
subject to be brought up during the next session as there is interest on the
matter.
Julie McKenna addressed HB15-1098, Red Light Camera, requiring voter
approval to use AVI technology. Another bill would likely eliminate the use
of AVI technology. It is likely that Governor Hickenlooper would veto these
bills since he has put out correspondence to the legislature explaining his
view of local jurisdiction on this matter.
Jenifer Brandeberry mentioned that they did a tour of the East Line with the
Senate Transportation Committee. She noted that the tour was a great way
of showing how the rail lines really affect the whole state. She pointed out
that the legislators have been paying attention to the fare study and have
been impressed with the community outreach.
Committee Chair Folska said she was thrilled that the rest of the State can
see the value RTD provides. She noted that the new CDOT Bustang,
scheduled to start July 13, 2015, will use Denver Union Station as its
terminal.
Director Bagley noted that issues related to SB15-177 has been taken up by
at least three local governments: Lakewood, Lone Tree, and Littleton. He
pointed out that he testified during the Littleton hearings. He foresees other
metro communities adopting local legislation and perhaps forcing the state
legislators to deal with this subject at a state level.
Director Walker pointed out Aspen’s referendum requiring voter approval of
land use variances for commercial development. He said that there are
similar items in Boulder. He wondered if there are similar items around the
state. Jenifer Brandeberry replied that land use is always top of the line at
the legislature. She noted that Speaker Hullinghorst has a passion on
reforming the use of tax increment financing for development. Local
governments have opposed the changes Speaker Hullinghorst has been
proposing. Jenifer Brandeberry said that there are conversations on the
state level but not at par with the vote in Aspen.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino from Squire Patton Boggs referred the Directors to the update
included in the Government Relations Committee meeting agenda packet for
May 12, 2015. The document includes updates on the MAP-21
Reauthorization, Transportation –HUD Appropriation Bill, and Recent Federal
Actions.
Mike Dino reminded the Directors that MAP-21 Reauthorization expires on
May 31, 2015. Next week will be the last week for Congress to decide on
the future. He said that of the two options available, a 2 month extension
or a 7 month extension, Congress seems to be leaning towards the 7 month
extension. Mike Dino noted that one of the challenges will be to figure out
funding for the Highway Trust Fund. He said that no funding short falls are
anticipated for current Full Funding Grant Agreements.
Mike Dino noted that the House Appropriators released the Fiscal Year 2016
spending bill. In it the New Start Funding has been cut by about $200
million. This would affect FFGAs; however the house is usually the low
mark and the Senate has not yet released their version.
Director Lubow mentioned that she was under the impression that the
Southeast extension FFGA was included in the President’s budget. She
wondered if the House is proposing to fund less of the FFGA. Mike Dino
replied that is possible. He said that the markup for this bill is tomorrow,
May 20. He stated that as nice as it is to see an item in the President’s
budget, Congress does not always follow that budget. Sherry Ellebracht,
Government Relations Officer, pointed out that the House Appropriations is
still in the subcommittee. This means it still has to go through the full
House. She noted that the Senate will also put together the Senate
Appropriation for the budget, indicating that the FFGA final amount has still
a long way to go.

D. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 2, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 8:17 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

