Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, May 12, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• State Legislative Liaison Services Contract Renewal
C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - June 2, 2015
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David Genova, Interim General Manager

Date: May 6, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 6, 2015

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract
Renewal

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state legislative liaison services
with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2015
through June 29, 2016) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $117,000, pursuant to the
Contract Award agreement.
BACKGROUND
Contract 13-DX-001 for State Legislative Liaison Services was signed with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs, effective July 1, 2013, and contained a provision for four (4) additional one-year option
periods. This board action would exercise the option for Year 2 of the option years. Of extreme
importance, the lobbyists are in daily contact with state legislators regarding bills that RTD seeks to have
passed, as well as regarding bills that would be harmful to RTD.
DISCUSSION
The state lobbying team provides guidance and direction for the RTD Board of Directors and staff in
their relationships with the General Assembly members. Constant monitoring of the activities within
the General Assembly and the Executive Office of the state of Colorado is required, and RTD’s
interests must be conveyed to appropriate legislators, including testifying before certain committees.
Advice and assistance in drafting legislation are also provided by the lobbying team. When RTD has
had legislation before the General Assembly, Brandeberry~McKenna has an excellent record of
making certain that these bills pass and become part of the Colorado statutes.
As part of the services, frequent contact is made with RTD staff and board members regarding various
bills in the legislature; written summary reports are issued on a weekly basis during the legislative
session; and status reports are given at the Government Relations Committee meetings while the
General Assembly is in session and as deemed necessary thereafter.
The Brandeberry~McKenna team also takes the initiative to educate state legislators on RTD issues and
projects so that these legislators understand mass transit and RTD’s mission.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the Recommended Action. It is recommended by RTD’s Government Relations Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to enter into an agreement for
state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a oneyear option (June 30, 2015 through June 29, 2016) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of
$117,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
2. Do not approve the Recommended Action.
Do not accept the recommendation by the
Government Relations Committee that authorizes the General Manager to enter into a contract to
execute the state legislative liaison services one-year option agreement. A new Request for

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Proposals could be sent to interested parties, interviews conducted, and a different state lobbying
firm could possibly be selected by the Government Relations Committee and retained. This action
is not recommended because it is the consensus of the Government Relations Committee to
recommend to the Board the selection of the Brandeberry~McKenna team.
3. Do not approve the Recommended Action. Do not retain the services of a state legislative liaison
firm. This action is not recommended because it would put RTD in the position of facing
contentious and potentially harmful legislative issues with no direct legislative liaison services. It
was determined by the Government Relations Committee that the Brandeberry~McKenna team
has been very effective in pursuing the RTD state legislative agenda and will continue to
represent RTD’s interests very well in the future. This team is very familiar with RTD’s issues
and policies.
Prepared by Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David Genova, Interim General Manager

Date: May 6, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 6, 2015

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Local Government Update - CRL Associates

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Local Govt Update for 05-12-15 (DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

Date:

May 5, 2015

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

Attachment: Local Govt Update for 05-12-15 (2345 : Local Government Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.1.a

The following is our report for May 12, 2015:
1. The Denver municipal election Tuesday, May 5. In races where no candidate
receives 50%+1, a runoff will occur on June 2.
2. Metro Transportation Dialogue (MACC/MMC) meeting May 21
3. The summer CCI Conference will be held in Keystone June 1-3.
4. The summer CML Conference will be held in Breckenridge June 16-19.
5. GM search remains a “top of mind” issue.

1625 Broadway, Suite 700 Denver, CO 80202

p. 303.592.5450

f. 303.592.5460

www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 6

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David Genova, Interim General Manager

Date: May 6, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 6, 2015

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

State
Legislative
Update
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs

-

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


State Update for 5-12-15

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

1.C.2.a

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

To:

RTD

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)
Date: May 4, 2015
Update

Attachment: State Update for 5-12-15 (2346 : State Legislative Update)

Re:

We will provide updates on the following topics.


HB15-1389 Create a New Hospital Provider Fee Enterprise



SB15-221 Public Transit Officers



SB15-177 HOA Construction Defect Lawsuit Approval Times



SB15-272 Authorize New Transportation Anticipation Notes (Trans bonds)



HB15-1098 Red Light Camera



Budget Update



Interim Tours with the TLRC Committee



Council of State Governments West Conference Denver Tour July 25-27

Packet Pg. 8

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David Genova, Interim General Manager

Date: May 6, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 6, 2015

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Fed Update 5-12-2015 (DOCX)



Eagle Project Grant Notice 2015 (PDF)



Southeast Rail Extension Entry into Engineering

(PDF)



Cong Rec 4 29 15 Perlmutter on SU4T Day

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.3.a

FEDERAL UPDATE FOR REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT: MAY 12, 2015


With the House in session for only 9 days during the month of May and no consensus on a
long-term revenue solution, both the House and Senate are expected to move a short-term
extension of MAP-21 before they adjourn for Memorial Day recess on May 22.



House transportation leaders plan to advance a $10 billion funding patch and policy extension
to carry Federal surface transportation programs through the end of the calendar year – and to
buy time to develop broader support for a Highway Trust Fund (HTF) revenue solution.



While they have yet to coalesce around any proposal to restore the long-term solvency of the
HTF, House leaders have made clear that two of the most talked-about revenue ideas won’t
work. Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said an increase in the Federal gas tax is “politically
impossible.” Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan has ruled out repatriation outside of
broader tax reform, which is moving on a slower track than MAP-21 reauthorization.



In the Senate, both Environment and Public Works Chairman Jim Inhofe and Ranking
Member Barbara Boxer believe a long-term funding bill for highways and transit should be
passed as soon as possible. Senator Boxer has even offered her own version of mandatory
repatriation tax legislation to replenish the HTF. But with the May 31 deadline quickly
approaching, Inhofe and Boxer have yet to introduce their multi-year highway bill, and the
Senate is expected to support an extension.



Chairman Inhofe does not want infrastructure funding to be tied to corporate tax reform,
believing the chances are slim that Congress can successfully move major tax legislation this
year. Instead, Senators Inhofe and Boxer are building support for a two-month extension of
MAP-21, through the end of July, which would likely require no additional revenues. This
approach aims to secure a revenue solution this summer.

House FY 2016 Transportation-HUD (THUD) Appropriations Bill:


On April 28, House Appropriators released their FY 2016 spending bill for the Department of
Transportation. In the absence of an authorization bill for FY 2016, the bill maintains FY
2015 funding levels for highway and transit formula programs funded from the HTF, but
makes cuts from last year’s levels for general-funded programs, including Capital Investment
Grants (“New Starts”) and TIGER.
o New Starts Funding: $1.92 billion, a cut of $199 million from last year, to be allocated as
follows: full funding for all projects with existing grant agreements (including the Eagle
project); only $250 million for proposed FFGAs (the President’s budget approved $792
million for projects in this category, including $92 million for the Southeast Rail
Extension); $40 million for Core Capacity; and the remainder to Small Starts.



The House Appropriations Committee has not yet announced its schedule for marking up
(i.e., amending in committee) this bill. The Senate has not yet introduced its own THUD
appropriations bill for next year.

Recent Federal Actions:


See the attached (1) Grant announcement of $150 million in FY 2015 New Starts funding for
the Eagle project; (2) FTA letter approving the Southeast Rail Extension into the New Starts
Engineering phase; and (3) Rep. Perlmutter’s Congressional Record statement on SU4T Day.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Fed Update 5-12-2015 (2347 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

MAP-21 Reauthorization – Go Short to Go Long:

1.C.3.b

U.S. Department of Transportation
Office of the Secretary of Transportation

1200 New Jersey Ave., S.E.
Washington, DC 20590

GRANT ADVANCE NOTICE

NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF DOT DISCRETIONARY GRANT AWARDS: This notification is provided to the
Committee pursuant to one of the following requirements governing the public announcement of a Department of
Transportation discretionary grant, letter of intent, or Federal Transit Administration full funding grant agreement:
(1) Currently applicable General Provision of the Appropriations Act, Continuing Resolution, or Supplemental
Appropriation governing Department of Transportation appropriations, containing a prohibition on the use of funds
made available unless the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on Appropriation at least three full
business days before the Department or its operating administrations announces any discretionary grant award,
letter of intent, or full funding grant agreement from:
(A) any discretionary grant program of the FHWA, including the emergency relief program;
(B) FAA's AIP program;
(C) any program of the Federal Railroad Administration;
(D) any discretionary FTA program other than the formula grants and fixed guideway modernization programs;
(E) any funding provided under the headings "National Infrastructure Investments" and "Assistance to Small
Shipyards" in the appropriations Act; or
(F) grant programs of other modal administration under some circumstances.
(2) Section 159(b) of the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century (AIR-21);
(3) Section 5334(j) of title 49, United States Code;
(4) Section 1531 of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21).

Notice:

THIS GRANT CANNOT BE RELEASED UNTIL THREE FULL BUSINESS DAYS HAVE PASSED AFTER THE DATE
SHOWN ABOVE

Title: NWST:2015 - 49 USC 5309 - New Starts (CFDA# 20500)
Grant Amount: $ 150,000,000.00
Description:
Denver, CO. Construction of the EAGLE commuter rail project

Congressional members affected:

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Eagle Project Grant Notice 2015 (2347 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Date: 04/29/2015

1.C.3.b

Diana DeGette
Ken Buck
Edwin Perlmutter
Mike Coffman
Jared Polis

Attachment: Eagle Project Grant Notice 2015 (2347 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Senators affected:
Cory Gardner
Michael Bennet
Should you have any questions, please contact the Office of Governmental Affairs (202)366-4573.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Southeast Rail Extension Entry into Engineering (2347 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

1.C.3.c

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Southeast Rail Extension Entry into Engineering (2347 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

1.C.3.c

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Southeast Rail Extension Entry into Engineering (2347 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

1.C.3.c

Packet Pg. 15

Between 1993 and 1998, Mr. Miller served
as United States Ambassador to Ukraine
under President Bill Clinton. As Ambassador,
he was a supporter and witness to some of
the most fundamental transformations of the
Ukrainian State, including the ratification of
Ukraine’s Constitution. To this day, Ambassador Miller still promotes peace and stability
in Ukraine through his work as a Senior Public
Policy Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
On behalf of my colleagues on the Caucus,
I want to thank Ambassador William Green
Miller for his lifetime of international diplomatic
accomplishments, and his help in forging the
steadfast US-Ukraine relationship that has
lasted and will continue to last for decades to
come.
f

DENVER REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

HON. ED PERLMUTTER

west of Nepal’s capital city, Kathmandu, was
the most powerful to hit Nepal in more than 80
years. Almost 5,000 deaths have been accounted for and, as I read this line, it is possible that this number has gone up.
The United Nations estimates that the tragedy has affected more than 8 million people
and left more than 1.4 million people in need
of food assistance. This earthquake has also
destroyed many historical and architectural
structures important to the culture of Nepal.
So I ask my fellow members to join me in
mourning with the people of Nepal and all
communities in other countries affected by the
tragic loss of life. I also want to commend the
efforts of first responders, relief agencies, private citizens, Nepal’s neighboring countries,
and the international community.
I want to thank our administration for its
quick response to help our friends in Nepal. I
urge Congress and our administration to continue our efforts in helping Nepal during this
tragic time.

OF COLORADO

f

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Wednesday, April 29, 2015
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Denver’s Regional Transportation District (RTD) and the
many cities around the country that participated in Stand Up 4 Transportation Day this
past April 9th.
In Denver, nearly 400 people came out to
support the many forms of public transportation around Colorado, ranging from buses,
shuttles, vans, bicycles, cabs, car services,
pedicabs, light rail and rail. More than 350 organizations in U.S. cities and towns participated in the event. Stand Up 4 Transportation
Day succeeded in raising awareness about
the importance of public transportation and a
long-term, sustainable transportation authorization bill.
Stand up 4 Transportation Day was a brainchild of former General Manager and CEO of
RTD, Phil Washington. During his time with
RTD, he always pushed for surface transportation reauthorization for the future. In Phil’s
own words, ‘‘It’s time to do some nation building. But the funding is key to more access to
transit, new buses and trains, more reliable
service, less gridlock. We can’t meet the demands of our growing population and economy without a long-term commitment from
Washington.’’
I applaud Phil and Denver’s RTD for their
efforts in the Denver metro area. Our communities are more connected and our quality of
life is better for it.
f

THE EARTHQUAKE OF APRIL 25,
2015, THAT DEVASTATED NEPAL

HON. RICK LARSEN
OF WASHINGTON
emcdonald on DSK67QTVN1PROD with REMARKS

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Wednesday, April 29, 2015
Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to express my heartfelt condolences
and full support for assistance to the people of
Nepal and all of those affected by the devastating earthquake of April 25, 2015, and its
aftermath. The massive magnitude-7.8 earthquake, which struck about 77 kilometers north-

VerDate Sep 11 2014

05:38 Apr 30, 2015

1.C.3.d
E611

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks

Jkt 049060

HONORING JUSTICE LIVELY

HON. SUZAN K. DelBENE
OF WASHINGTON

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Wednesday, April 29, 2015
Ms. DELBENE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor Justice Lively, who on March 25, 2015,
received the Washington Boys & Girls Club
Youth of the Year Award. Justice was honored
for his achievements in overcoming a tumultuous childhood and serving as a leader in his
community.
The Youth of the Year Award has been the
highest award attainable by the national Boys
& Girls Club since 1947. Justice previously received the Skagit County Boys & Girls Club
Youth of the Year Award.
Justice’s upbringing was filled with far greater challenges than any child should face. As
a young boy, with his father deployed in the
U.S. Army and his mother frequently absent,
Justice was cared for by his oldest brother.
When his father returned, Justice was brought
into a new home with an abusive stepmother.
Just as his mother began to get her life back
together, she was killed in a car accident
when Justice was only seven years old.
When he was 10, Justice’s life finally took a
turn for the better. He was adopted by his
aunt and uncle and was brought to Mt.
Vernon, where he later joined the local Boys
& Girls Club. Today, Justice is a leader at the
club, focused on helping children. He frequently reads books to the club’s younger children as part of a class on early childhood development.
As he prepares to graduate from high
school, Justice intends to attend the Cascade
Job Corps, Skagit Valley College and Western
Washington University in pursuit of his goal of
becoming a pediatric nurse at Seattle Children’s hospital.
I want to congratulate Justice Lively on this
achievement, as well as his work with the
Skagit County Boys & Girls Club. I wish him
the best as he pursues his dream of helping
children.

PO 00000

Frm 00005

Fmt 0626

Sfmt 0634

HONORING
EATONVILLE,
WASHINGTON TOWN MARSHAL DOLAR
LAPLANT

HON. DAVID G. REICHERT
OF WASHINGTON

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Wednesday, April 29, 2015
Mr. REICHERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor Eatonville, Washington Town Marshal
Dolar LaPlant who was killed in 1925 and his
daughter and great-granddaughter who fought
to see him recognized for his heroic sacrifice.
In 1925, Mr. LaPlant was 53 years old and a
Spanish-American War veteran. While on duty
as Town Marshal, just four days after stepping
into that position, he confronted a drunken
gunman who was firing shots and narrowly
missing small children at a playground. Mr.
LaPlant did not stop to think about his own life
or the fact that he was unarmed. He simply
did everything in his power to ensure that his
town was kept safe. The gunman shot Mr.
LaPlant just below his right ear before he was
knocked unconscious. Mr. LaPlant achieved
his mission but would later die from the wound
he received.
For many years, his heroic actions went
unremembered except by his family, particularly his daughter Rosa and his great-granddaughter Ronda. In 1999, Ronda succeeded
in having Dolar LaPlant added to the National
Law Enforcement Memorial Wall and now her
great-grandfather and his legacy will be honored posthumously with the Washington Medal
of Honor on May 9th. I applaud Ronda’s hard
work and join with her in honoring the memory
of Town Marshal Dolar LaPlant whose service
ensured the safety of the residents of
Eatonville, Washington.
f

POLICE OFFICER OF THE YEAR

HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Wednesday, April 29, 2015
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate Officer Osiel De La Cruz for
being recognized as the Pearland Officer of
the Year by both the Texas Louisiana Gulf
District and the Exchange Club of Pearland.
Officer De La Cruz was a natural choice for
this award thanks to his hard work in the community, service to the public and heroic actions. Officer De La Cruz is a veteran of the
department and a nightshift patrol officer. His
commitment to our community is evident
through his work both on and off duty. Officer
De La Cruz made over 53 DWI and drug-related arrests this year, found a shooting victim
and apprehended five offenders, and even
managed to apprehend a robbery suspect
while he was off-duty. His list of accomplishments speaks for itself. We can all sleep better at night knowing that police officers like Officer De La Cruz are on patrol.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congressional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Officer Osiel De La Cruz on being honored
as the Pearland Officer of the Year. Thank
you for your dedication to keeping our communities safe.

E:\CR\FM\A29AP8.014

E29APPT1

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Cong Rec 4 29 15 Perlmutter on SU4T Day (2347 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

April 29, 2015

