2025-03-11
Finance and Planning Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good evening. The Tuesday, March 11 Finance and Planning Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting
to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom,
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we are
providing Communication Access Real-Time Translation, also known as CART.
Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. A link will be provided. I'm going to say this in Spanish too.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]

Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for those who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube
page. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Vice Chair Karen Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Hi, present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here, hi.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Patrick O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am Chair Michael Guzman. I am also here. And I believe that I saw our Board Chair,
Julien Bouquet, hello. And I don't see anybody else right now.
OK, all right, I would like to open the public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee
regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding
month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press
star 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at
rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com.
Are there any hands raised? I don't see any. Board Office Manager, Executive Manager Mr. Kroll, are there
any hands raised on phones?
JACK KROLL: Director Guzman, there are no additional hands raised here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, were there any emails or communications received for this meeting?
JACK KROLL: There were not.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. With no participants in the queue, we will close the public
comment period at this time. This evening, we have no external entity reports, and there are no
recommended actions for the committee to take up tonight. We do, however, have five discussion items on
the agenda.
The first item is for the Finishing FasTracks Report. And I would like to ask Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of
Transit Oriented Communities, to present this item. Mr. Sirois, the floor is yours.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Chair. Give me a second while I pull up my presentation. OK, can everybody see
it OK?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JACK KROLL: OK, great. So here tonight to talk about the Finishing FasTracks Report. Really, what we
want to do is give a little bit of an overview of why we're doing this report, what we're proposing as an
approach, and then just give an overall schedule. So we're not here to talk about the guts of the report, just
how we're approaching this and what is the schedule.
So as a means of background, as many of you know, FasTracks was passed in 2004. And since it was
passed, we have completed quite a bit, almost upwards of over 70%-- nearly 75% of the program. We do
have four corridors remaining-- the Northwest Rail corridor, North Metro, the extension past 124th, the
Southwest corridor extension into Highlands Ranch, and then the Central Corridor extension in the Five
Points neighborhood.
So in 2004, during the legislative session with House Bill 24-230, as part of that bill, RTD was directed to
do two things-- first, prioritize Northwest Rail to Longmont as well as the North Metro line, and then, in terms
of working cooperatively with the Front Range Passenger Rail, to make sure that we honored the states
plan to execute a statewide rail program. I know you as a group have been heard from the Front Range
Passenger Rail the last two months. So hopefully you have all that background.

But the other piece, which is the primary reason for talking to you tonight, is there was a request for RTD
to do a report that identified how we could potentially complete the FasTracks program, the four remaining
corridors, which I just outlined, on or before the end of 2034. And as part of this, the expectation is that we
would produce a report by the 1st of July and then make a presentation to the Transportation Legislative
Review Committee in the fall.
So what is our approach? What is the basis for the report? So included in the packet tonight, we did provide
the Unfinished Corridors Report, which was produced by staff in 2019. That was a response to a Board
resolution earlier in the year, which identified RTD's commitment to finish FasTracks.
So what we are doing with this process is really look at that report as the structure for what we're going to
do. So we'll be utilizing that report in terms of the costs and capital, and then updating those to kind of
current year numbers. We will look at also revenue projections and update those.
We are also going to be reaching out to some of the local jurisdictions that are in these corridors to get
information about any kind of new challenges related to project implementation. That could be related to
development that has happened in the corridor. That could be related to infrastructure projects that have
come online, or any other things that may have happened in the last six or eight years, and since we actually
did the Unfinished Corridors Report.
But the one thing I do want to emphasize that we are not going to do is we are not planning to do any
updated study or design of any of the corridors. The exception to that is the Northwest Rail Project, because
as you, I think, all know, we did complete a Northwest Peak Service Study in 2024. So there is updated
information for that. Again, the primary reason for this is in terms of just resources and time, in terms of
being able to pull together that kind of information to update these projects. So we are going to be using,
again, the basis of where we're at from a design and environmental review standpoint, and then just
updating the costs in terms of our approach for this report.
So we plan to schedule meetings with local governments to review the relevant changes for the right-ofway, land use, and others. And we expect to do that this month. So we will be doing that. We're starting to
set up those meetings now.
And then, lastly, I'll get into the schedule, which we're developing the report as we speak. We are awaiting
our new cost numbers. And we will be working to produce the report and get a draft that will be reviewed
thoroughly internally, and then provide that to the Board in the mid-May time frame for the Board to review
and provide input.
We expect to come to the Board in the June Finance and Planning Committee to review that, and then
finalize the report at the end of June in order to submit it to the legislature on July 1. So with that, Chair,
that concludes my presentation. And I forgot to introduce earlier that Chris Quinn, who works with me in the
Planning department, and Keith Hall, who works in Capital Programs, are available during the Q&A to help
me to answer any questions that the Board may have.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great, thank you very much. Directors, any conversation or questions on this matter?
Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Sirois, in the packet-- and I think it's packet page, but it
could be the report page 57, there's a Commodities Inflation chart. And I mean, if anyone wants a quick

summary of why our expectations are not in line with our resources, you can see that all those core
commodities outpaced the projected inflation in the original FasTracks report.
And so a question-- it's kind of a question, I guess it's more of a request of the team when we're updating
it. I know that we'll be able to pull commodities up to, maybe, if we're lucky, year 2024. I don't think there'll
be a lot of complete data.
So maybe you're going to go through 2023. But given our uncertain political environment right now and the
impacts on inflation, I'd like to make sure that we note that that is likely going to be a gap in the estimate
and likely a very significant cost gap. So maybe if you can highlight it in the report and underline it two times
when you say it, I'd really appreciate it. Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thanks, Mr. Sirois. Since the statute says that RTD should
prioritize completion of Northwest Rail and the N Line is there more? I know we've built part of the N Line.
Have we done additional analysis moving forward? In other words, do we have more on the N Line than
what's in the 2019 FasTracks report?
BILL SIROIS: I am not completely sure. And I will defer to General Manager Johnson on that question.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you, Director Guissinger, for the question. No, the agency has not. There
has been quite a few questions as it relates to that going forward. But recognizing that that line opened up
for Revenue Service during the height of the pandemic in September 2020, there's not been any additional
work at this point in time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. I didn't know if we'd done some of the work, but couldn't complete it. But
thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Any other directors? I have a quick comment just checking in with Mr. Kroll. I do
believe that this is calendared properly for our work plan as it comes forward. So keep that in mind, and
we'll try and make sure that we address it as we go forward.
I do believe that the committee, for the remainder of the months of the year, we are working on items, we'll
receive an update that Mr. Kroll and I will ensure it goes out to the whole committee ahead of time,
addressing what's updated on the calendar, if there are any changes. So we should be good to go as this
is planned out, all right? I don't see any other questions or hands raised. So we will move on to our second
item of discussion. Oh, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Just to clarify on your point, this item is next slated to come to the committee in June.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. Want to provide some clarity and some context around
that. Recognizing that RTD, there's a statutory requirement to submit this information. What we intend to
do is work on the report, provide that to this body. While we may not come back before this body in that
form or fashion, what we want to do is be able to collect comments.
For those of you that are familiar, we want to leverage the same process by which we did with the Office of
the State Auditor, where we gave a draft document. And we will work with the Board Office to consolidate
that information, then in turn, bring that back so we can adhere to the statutory deadline of July 1. So I just
wanted to ensure that we all understood what we meant by coming back in June. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Perfect. Thank you very much. OK, the second item is for the 2025 Fiscal Policy. I
would like to ask our Chief Financial Officer, Doug MacLeod, to present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Committee Chair Guzman. And good evening. This is a verbal presentation.
We don't have any presentation materials.
Each year, staff brings to the Board for approval the fiscal policy for the upcoming fiscal year. The fiscal
policy was last approved by the Board in October of 2024 for the 2025 fiscal year. The fiscal policy can be
brought back at any point in time to make any adjustments.
When that policy was approved for the budget year, it was presented at the same time as the draft budget.
And it's really just used as a guiding tool and sets the parameters for our fiscal policy in developing our
budgets, as well as our ongoing accounting and other financial activities. So what we're asking for here,
and we will bring this back as an action item in April at the April Finance and Planning Committee. But this
is just a discussion item to present the actual fiscal policy as it exists and propose two changes that we
would like to make with the Committee and Board's approval in April.
When the fiscal policy was approved for 2025, RTD was going to be, at that point in time in October, subject
to TABOR, Taxpayer Bill of Rights revenue growth limitations in 2025. As such, the fiscal policy was
adjusted to include two new provisions. One was in the revenue section in which we wanted to have it
defined that RTD would account for revenues correctly to separate revenue subject to TABOR growth
limitations from other revenues, particularly federal revenues and the investment income derived from those
federal revenues. That was put in the fiscal policy, as was, in the fund balance or reserves section, that
RTD would establish a reserve if any TABOR excess collections were made under TABOR, those monies
would need to be refunded to taxpayers. So the idea would be to reserve for those anticipated refunds and
set that money aside in a reserve.
Since that time since that was approved, the voters on November 5t, 2024, the voters in the district,
approved RTD to continue to be debruised or not subject to TABOR revenue growth limitations. As such,
we're bringing that back, that fiscal policy back to remove those two sections. RTD will not have to worry
about TABOR revenue growth limitations going forward. So we'd just like to adjust that policy by taking out
those two sections. And then again, in the October time frame of this year, staff will bring back the fiscal
policy for 2026. So that's a quick summary, Chair Guzman. Be happy to answer any questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Are there any questions from directors? Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is just moving way too for me, so I thought I'd slow it down
with another question. And this is not in any part that you're asking for change on, Mr. MacLeod. So I'm
sorry about that. But you put the document in front of me, so I got a question.

Number 7 in the-- I guess it's like the front of the findings. I should have looked at what the title was called.
But it says that unused property and equipment will be monetized. Do we maintain a list or inventory of
candidate property for that? Or is it just as it comes-- going through time, make the decision as an individual
property.
I know we probably don't want to advertise everything to every developer in the world. It probably takes
away a little bit of negotiating strength. But is there any way to understand maybe what the universe of our
unused property is in real estate, or maybe evaluation of the aggregate that wouldn't give away the specifics
of the individual?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you, Director O'Keeffe, for the question. Great question. I was just
trying to look on our work plan for the year. I do believe we have an item scheduled to discuss the properties.
I'm not sure which month it's in. However, yes. Oh, there it is. Inventory of RTD properties in July. So, yes.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So I love how you're saying "we," which means that you will be around when we have
this discussion. So I take that as a commitment to delay retirement.
DOUG MACLEOD: [LAUGHS]
Thank you, Director O'Keefe. And yes, I say that fondly of my colleagues since I won't be here, the collective
"we." But yes, and we'll go into a little bit more depth in July with that discussion. We actually have a real
property management division that tracks all of our properties.
And you can imagine we have many, many properties. Some are not necessarily marketable. They may be
a small corner that was cut off of a building so we could have the right-of-way put in. Some of them are. I
would say, for the most part, we have sold off most of those unused or unneeded properties.
We do have some available properties that are still vacant but may have a future use for RTD. So that is
monitored. It is marketed. And that particular phrase within the fiscal policy is to try to not just sit on property.
But if it's not going to be needed in the future or we're not using it currently, that we would try to monetize
that, sell it, possibly lease it. One of the things that we've looked at as an agency is instead of getting one
time revenues, if we can leverage those types of things and possibly do a lease purchase, for instance, and
get an ongoing stream of revenue. And I know our transit-oriented communities keeps that in mind anytime
there's a property that's proposed for development.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you very much. And I'll see you in July, if not before.
DOUG MACLEOD: [LAUGHS]

MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Just a quick question. On page 209 of the packet, it talks about
the TABOR Emergency Fund. RTD will maintain an emergency TABOR reserve equal to 3% of non-federal

TABOR applicable revenues. And then it goes on. It doesn't look like we're taking that out but if we have
no, as I think, TABOR applicable revenues, is there a reason that stays in?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Great question. Yes, so there are actually two separate issues regarding
TABOR. One was the issue that we would be subject to TABOR, so Taxpayer Bill of Rights revenue growth
limitations, particularly on the base system. And it did Apply To FasTracks as well.
Once the debt was paid off, voters approved that RTD could keep any excess revenues up until the point
that bonds were paid off. Once those bonds were paid off, and this is pre ballot measure 7A, becoming
debruised. Once those bonds were paid off, RTD would be subject to those revenue growth limitations. So
that was the item that we're trying to fix by cleaning up this fiscal policy.
There's a separate TABOR reserve that's required under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. And it's a TABOR
emergency reserve. And all government agencies within the state of Colorado have to maintain 3% of nonfederal revenues in reserve for an emergency. And the way it's described is a declared emergency, if the
governor of the state of Colorado declares an emergency and it's applicable to RTD, RTD could tap into
those funds.
And that approximates about $30 million that we have set aside. So that remains. And it's required by
statute. And it's to be used for these declared emergencies, say a flood occurs, and the governor declared
emergency, would allow RTD to tap back into that.
But TABOR also says, hey, you can use this if there's a declared emergency, but you also have to replenish
it as soon as practicable. So it's one of those things that everybody is required to have this money set aside,
every government agency in Colorado. But nobody's actually ever used it since TABOR was enacted in
1992.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Vice Chair Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, I just wanted to add a little bit to that. At the state level, what the state did after
TABOR had passed was they combined the TABOR fund with their Capital Construction fund. So it was
contained within another fund, because they realized that if an emergency was ever declared under
TABOR, you would have to repay it the next year.
So if there was a real emergency, the thinking was that you would not be able to come up with the revenues
to pay it the next year. So quite frankly, the state just sort of tucks it into another fund and says we meet
the requirement. So just thought I'd add that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great, thank you. Anybody else? OK, I want to mention one quick thing. This is, as
our CFO has stated, just to clean up the document for 2025 and to ensure that we have corrected the
language, as this was uncertain at the time we voted on this and brought it forward last year.
We will revisit the fiscal policy for 2026 later in the year. So there would be no need to bring forward any
additional amendments at this time. This is really just essentially cleaning it up from a secretarial point of

view and ensuring that everything is cleaned up and nice and neat in order for the current reality. And then
when we revisit this policy later in the year, we can take a harder look at different parts of it.
But this particular discussion item that will eventually lead to an action item to go to the Board, is just to do
a bit of document cleanup and ensure that we have the correct language in here knowing now what we
didn't know then, which is that 7A was passed. Does that sound correct? All right, making sure that there
are no other comments or discussion on item.
Let us move on to the third item, which is the 2024 Actuals to Budget Review. I would again like to ask our
CFO, Doug MacLeod, to present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Guzman. And I do have a presentation to go through. This was a
Board requested item.
As you know, we don't actually get through the audit for the prior year fiscal year-end for the audited financial
statements until the May time frame, then present the audited financials in June that span all the way back
to December. So this was a request to see what the preliminary numbers look like before the audit is
complete. How did we end up our fiscal year 2024 that ends in December?
OK, so this presentation, I'll talk a little bit about the background and then go through some of the preliminary
results that we have knowing that the books are not closed. So what you're looking at is unaudited financial
statements. These match what was posted in the Board briefings.
We provide monthly unaudited financial statements. I don't know of any material adjustments that will
happen at this point in the audited financial statements, except for some accruals for invoices that came in
late. And those are primarily related to the Colfax BRT pass-through. So there's really no financial impact
to RTD. So these are relatively final numbers that we'll talk about.
So RTD, as you know, is on a fiscal year, January to December. Many other governments have different
fiscal years. So for instance, the federal government operates on an October through September time frame
for their fiscal year. Some of the information that we provide through the Finance department on a regular
basis are the unaudited monthly financial statements.
Again, those are included in the Board briefings. They're also available on the Financial web page. There's
a separate financial web page under Open Records, if anybody would like to see those. There's a lot of
financial information out there.
The other item that we provide annually is the Audited Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, the ACFR.
As I mentioned, that goes through an audit process with our external auditors. They provide an opinion on
the statements, and it includes more detail than the monthly financials. So it's got a letter of transmittal from
the General Manager and CEO, includes management's discussion, analysis, financial statements, and
notes to financial statements, as well as the auditor's opinion whether it's an unqualified opinion, meaning
it's a clean opinion. So that will be forthcoming probably in the June time frame.
And then, finally, we also provide additional financial information in several places, most notably on the
Performance dashboard on the RTD website. We also provide a budget book on the Financial web page,
what we call a "check register," which shows a 36-month rolling detail of all of the expenses that have been
paid going out from RTD. If you're ever interested in seeing all the vendors, the dates, the amounts, that
kind of information is out there. And if you ever need any help finding that, please let me know. So that's
some of the things that we put out there for transparency as well as informational purposes.

So going into the preliminary results, here's the categories that we'll discuss tonight. Boardings, also known
as "ridership." We refer to those as boardings generally. But that's the ons and offs of all of our services
that we provide. We'll also talk a little bit about revenue, how did we end up actual versus budget in 2024,
and then the expenditures, operating capital and debt service.
So beginning with boardings, so where we ended up, if you just go right to the bottom line, we're showing
three years here, 2022 through 2024. You can see we grew in 2022 to 2023 from $61.6-- and again, all
these numbers that you'll see, and its indicated up above, are in thousands, meaning we've dropped off the
last three digits. Otherwise the numbers are too large.
So 2022, the total there is $61,603,00. And going across, you can see from 2023 to 2024, just very small
growth year over year in our boardings. And to go into the detail, what drove that really? Up at the top is
our bus services. You can see that we went from $41 million up to $42.7 million in 2024, a nice increase
there of about 4%.
But the overall was flat. So what dragged the overall boardings down was you can see the light rail and
commuter rail decreased year over year. We attribute most of that to the rail reconstruction efforts that were
going on. So that total you can see is pretty flat for the year, mainly due to offsetting growth in bus by rail
services.
So moving into the month-over-month boarding, you can see how this has played out. Totals over there on
the right, I think one thing to point out that when you look at year-over-year, a reminder in 2022, you can
see we had a spike in the month of August, $6,000,360. In that month, we offered Zero Fare for Better Air.
So we saw an increase in ridership during that month. Then, going into 2023, July and August both had
Zero Fare for Better Air. So we did not have that in '24. So again, when you're comparing year to year, we
had some anomalies going across years.
And here's just a quick graph. You can see month to month, year by year. And again, those spikes in July
and August were due to Zero Fare for Better Air.
Moving into the dollar side, Revenue. So here's our major categories of revenue. So first column of numbers
are the actual preliminary results for 2024 followed by the budget. And then, of course, the variances in the
last two columns. So just moving down to the bottom line, total RTD revenues in 2024 are $1,065,716. That
was less than what was budgeted at 1,189,000.
So moving back up, you can see Total Operating revenues. So we have Fares. Fares were right where we
expected them to be for the year at $63.9 million. Other encompasses other operating revenues.
So advertising is the primary revenue source in Other operating. We put, obviously, advertisements on our
buses and our trains. And we receive revenue for that. We had an adjustment to true things up in 2024. So
we did not hit our budget. That drives the total operating revenue shortfall to be almost $7 million.
Our largest revenue source, of course, is Sales and use taxes. The budget of $932,541, that came from
the forecast that was prepared in September of 2023. So since that time, we've gotten a new forecast,
which brought that down.
But we stayed with the original budget. So we fell short of that budget by $75 million, 8.1%. That's one of
the largest contributing factors to that bottom line variance of 10.4% of Total revenue.

Grants is the other area. So what you'll see on this slide, as well as the Operating expense slide, I mentioned
the Colfax Bus Rapid Transit Pass-Through Grant. So when the budget was appropriated, we estimated
the revenue from grants. What was included in that grant number was $156,400 in Pass-through grant
funding that was going to go to the city and county of Denver.
So when I talk about a pass-through grant, RTD is the direct recipient of FTA funding. We were designated
as the recipient of this Colfax BRT Project Grant funding. So what happens is city and county of Denver
makes the expenditures to make the improvements to the Colfax Avenue bus line. And then we're going to
operate the buses on there.
So as the recipient of the grants, city and county of Denver makes the expenditures, they submit them to
RTD, RTD reimburses or pays the city and county of Denver, then goes back to the FTA and gets
reimbursed by the FTA for those grant funds. So it's really just money passing through. There's a timing
issue with that where we don't get the money until after we expend it, or Denver expends it, and then we
pass it through.
Bottom line, impact is zero. So $156 million of that $242 million grant variance is attributable to timing on
those invoices, which will continue to come in as we go forward. And then, just for information, that line item
under Grants called
Other, that is primarily investment income. So $75 million, mostly investment income. We had
conservatively budgeted only $30 million. So that was helpful when you compare a budget.
Just going back to the bottom line, $123,418 under budget after adjusting for that pass-through grant. So
we're really just looking at RTD funds excluding funds that are passed through. So we came in 10.4%.
A portion of that is due to the $75 million shortfall in Sales and Use tax. And the remainder is due to grant
funding for preventive maintenance grants that belongs to RTD. There's a delay in drawing that money
down because everything that's going on at the federal level.
We still anticipate drawing that money down. The 2024 appropriation wasn't available until quite a ways
after the Federal fiscal year start of October. So that will get caught up. So about half of that shortfall will
be made up in 2025.
Moving into Operating expenses, so this is the big area that the Board appropriates in the budgeting
process. When we do the budget, revenues are estimated. There's not really an appropriation for that piece.
It's really an appropriation by the Board of any expenditures, so any uses of funds.
So just hitting on a couple highlight items here, Salaries and Wages as well as Fringe Benefits up at the
top, we ended up the year slightly over budget in both those categories. On the Wages and Salaries, that
was primarily due to overtime incurred early on in the year before we got staffed up. Earlier in 2024, we had
a 15% vacancy rate, most of that front-line workers. That has decreased significantly by the end of 2024.
We were paying overtime to fill those spots. And then, the Fringe Benefits, there's a payroll tax contribution
from the employer that goes along with those higher wages. So just wanted to point that out since we're so
reliant on people power.
The other item is in Services. What Services is really outside services, so anything that RTD contracts out
that is not our actual bus and rail service. Our contracted bus and rail service is shown in the Purchased

Transportation line. But anything else that we contract out, like security services, some of our IT
functionality, that goes through the Services line.
But why there's a huge $187 million shortfall versus budget, or I guess positive variance, because we spent
less than what was budgeted, again, that's mostly the $156,400 that was the pass-through grant. And we're
reconciling that on the bottom line. So just going right to the bottom line, $1,193,000,000 in actual expenses
that belong to RTD versus a budget of 1,209,000,000, almost right on budget, 1.3% positive variance there,
1.3%.
And then, the final categories, aside from operating expenses that are expenditures are payments for
capital. So anything that has a useful life of more than one year, a fixed asset, such as a bus or any
infrastructure, a building, any purchases like that are considered capital expenditures. So we have capital
expenditures shown here, as well as debt service.
Capital expenditures, we had a fairly large budget of $270,287,000. The big reason for that is every year
we have what we call "capital carry forward." So it's money that is appropriated to finish projects that weren't
finished in the prior year. So we carry that funding, with Board permission, carry it forward to the next fiscal
year. So most of the money that's in that $270 million budget was carried forward from 2023 into the 2024
fiscal year.
And it was primarily related to the Downtown-- well, Rail Reconstruction efforts, in which we budgeted $150
million. We knew we weren't going to spend that all within 2024, most likely, but we had to get it in place in
order to issue purchase requisitions. So we'll just continue to carry that forward and spend it down. That's
the main reason for that positive variance to budget that we underspent on our capital.
And then, the Debt service-- underspent on our debt service. We have fixed rate debt, fixed term debt. So
we know exactly what our debt is going to be when we do the budget. The reason why we are better than
what we expected is due to refinancings for interest savings. So a good result there as well.
So finally, just to summarize, how does that all look together? So this is a summary at the top that shows
revenue minus our expenditures to net cash flow. So where we ended up, we look at just the net of the
cash in, the cash out, we ended up at a negative $81,202,000 versus a budget of negative $188,886,000.
So a positive variance there. We did better than we expected.
You may be asking, well, how can we operate at a loss every year? And part of that is because we're using
reserves, as we demonstrated in the five-year financial forecast, to accomplish some of these things that
are more one-time in nature. So we are able to do that for a period of time. But we can't lose money every
year in perpetuity, otherwise we run out of money.
So we're able to do that relatively small in the whole scheme of things at a $81 million loss. And then what
that results in is cash in, net cash in, net cash out. It either adds to or subtracts from our reserve positions
or our financial position. So our total reserves at the end of the year are $1,023,497,000.
We had anticipated them being at $898 million. And you can see the big increase there is Unrestricted
reserve. And it's primarily related to the fact that we thought we were going to lose $188 million and came
in better than that.
So we just added that to reserves. So with that, Mr. Chair, that's a quick summary of where we expect to
end up for the fiscal year 2024. We'd be happy to take questions.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, who's first? You're all so overwhelmed and shocked that we have these
numbers, you don't know what to do. I love it.
[LAUGHS]

Mr. MacLeod, thank you so much. Committee members, if you think of something, we can certainly address
it later or send an email with questions. Thank you for the rundown. I look forward to the ACFR later, when
we have the audited numbers, so that we can continue the work. I'm just waiting to see if anybody raises
their hand one more time.
All right, we are on our fourth item, which is the Budget Process Overview. So I will once again get as much
out of our CFO MacLeod before we let him go to present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, this was a Board requested item to describe the budget
process and what can be expected from the Board. So I will share my screen. I think. There we go.
OK, so I'll talk about the background, because there's more than just the annual budget that RTD produces.
We don't want to just look at one single year. We also have forecasts. So I'll talk a little bit about that, what
we put together for the Board, and also the process that we go through, as well as the timeline of when
these items can be expected.
So there's really three primary reporting tools or forecasting and budgeting tools that we use. One is the
five-year financial forecast. That is a plan that forecasts out.
And when I say "plan," it's really a plan. It's not a binding item. It's a forecast to look to make sure that we
can hopefully be fiscally sustainable past just the one-year budget year.
The annual budget, that's an actual appropriation. I'll talk about the timeline, what goes into that. But that's
one of the things that we come to the Board and ask for approval. Once it's approved, that's what RTD must
stick to.
We have very tight budgetary controls that the Board approves, certain expenditures within that budget.
That's all that we can spend without coming back and getting additional approvals, amendments to the
budget. And then, finally, more periodically, RTD produces a long-range financial plan. That is a 30-year
plan. And it goes into the planning for the whole region.
So it's coordinated with RTD, CDOT, DRCOG, as well as several local municipalities. And what it is, is
looking at the overall transportation system, roads as well as public transit and the like, to ensure that
there's a coordinated effort to put that together. It's also something that must be submitted on a periodic
basis in order to continue to receive federal funding.
DRCOG leads that effort. They are considered the Metropolitan Planning Organization, or MPO. So they
coordinate that. The last one that was submitted was in 2019. Due to the COVID, it was delayed. So there
will be a 30-year long-range financial plan coming back to the Board for viewing and approval this fiscal
year.
So regarding these forecasts and financial plans, when we put them together, they're really using currently
available information. So of course, they're going to change probably even as soon as the next day. New

information comes in, and that could change what's expected. It's really used, as I mentioned, to establish
fiscally sustainable expenditure targets, especially the Five-Year Financial Forecast. or the FYFF.
We want to make sure that when we appropriate the budget or make a recommendation to appropriate
certain expenditures, that we can sustain that level of expenditures knowing what's coming after the current
fiscal year. So it precedes the budget development. So the FYFF, the Five-Year Financial Forecast, that's
put together.
Then we come back to the Board with the budget request. We break it out between Base System and
FasTracks. Base System collects a 6/10, FasTracks collects the 4/10 sales tax. We have to keep those
dollars separate per voter approval. The 6/10, the Base System can spend its funding on FasTracks, but
not vice versa. So we account for those separately, and we also report on those separately.
And regarding the presentation to the Board, so again, the FYFF is not binding. But we present a discussion
item in July, and also come back and ask for recommended action for the Board to approve this plan. It will
change, it's not binding, and it's not an appropriation, but it really sets the stage for development of the
budget.
And then the long-range financial plan, this year, we have it scheduled to come to the Finance and Planning
Committee in October for a discussion item, then for approval in November. Once it's approved in
November, it will be included in the Transportation Improvement Plan with DRCOG.
The budget is slightly different. It's only one year, of course. And it's fiscally constrained, meaning we have
to be careful that-- we don't have unlimited sources of money, so we have to be careful with how we allocate
that money and make sure it's for the right purposes, for the right period, and the right time, and that we
can sustain that level of spending, so fiscally constrained.
There's also a non-financial resource consideration. So obviously, we can't spend more than we have in
perpetuity. So there's the financial piece, but there's also resource constraints too. So we have to be
cognizant of human capital availability to actually spend the money, pull things off, coordination of all those
efforts, et cetera.
We do prepare the budget at a lower level than we prepare the forecasts. Forecasts are a higher level,
looking to plan. The budget is prepared at a Cost Center level. So we have about a hundred cost centers.
So every area that we want to provide a financial report for, potentially for the manager, at least, to be able
to manage their budget within their cost center, we budget at that level. It includes expenditures and fund
balances and the breakdown into very exquisite detail that we don't necessarily include in all the public
documents, but they're available if anybody wants to dig down into that level of detail, because we do have
100 cost centers.
We also are required to publicly post the proposed budget. So when October rolls around, state law says
that we have to post for public inspection the proposed 2026 budget by October 15. The rule is, is that-sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself. But that has to happen so the public can provide feedback.
At that same time, in October, at the meeting with Finance and Planning Committee, the draft budget will
be presented and described in detail. Then we come back in November asking for the proposed budget to
be approved and appropriated. If that budget is not approved and appropriated before the beginning of the
next fiscal year, the state law is that only 90% of the prior year expenditures can be expended going forward.

So it's a pretty critical item, takes most of the year to put this information together and get it right for Board
appropriations. So that's why it comes towards the end of the year for Board inspection. But there's a lot of
discussion leading up to that.
Some of the major categories that you'll see in each of these reports is consistent. The way we presented
is, of course, we present the revenue, we present expenditures in those same breakouts that we discussed
previously, and then, of course, fund balances, because it's important to understand what our fund balances
and our financial position look like. It's also important to understand, because the Board is responsible for
any spending of fund balances if they so choose, so all these expenditures have to receive Board approval
either through the appropriation process or in a separate amendment through a recommended action. So
once the Board approves those, then staff has the authority to go forth and spend in the manner authorized.
So process and timeline, so for the Five-Year Financial Forecast, so this next Five-Year Financial Forecast
will be the next five years. So it would be 2026 through 2030. And by starting with 2026, that kind of sets
the targets based on fiscal sustainability through 2030, the expenditure targets for the budget preparation.
So I mentioned that budget's done at a detailed level. These forecasts are done at a little bit higher level.
So for instance, we'll use our operating expenses as they exist in the current year and forecast those for
the next year using any known factors, so contractual adjustments that we know for inflation or contractual
increases, any new headcount, any new projects. So there's a whole bunch of high level adjustments that
are made to those expenditures to come up with our final expenditure analysis.
Transit Asset Management Plan is a critical item that we'll talk about a lot. That's huge expenditures
because we have so much infrastructure, so much in vehicles, we have a Capital Improvement Plan
associated with that TAM plan. The TAM plan is really a planning document that lays out when things should
be replaced based on their age and their condition assessment.
So the Light Rail Reconstruction Project is a good example of that. We have to be prepared. It takes a long
time to plan, design, and repair and replace these items. So we include all that information as we're
developing our forecasts.
So we already started working on the Five-Year Financial Forecast, beginning in January, right off the bat,
internally with staff. So a lot of that has to do with new funding requests, getting things in there, making
adjustments that we know are going to occur. That happens from January through June, a lot of
departmental coordination.
And then it goes through a leadership review. And within that leadership review, there's also discussions
amongst departments to make sure that any interdependencies are addressed. So if I say I'm going to need
five more accountants in Finance, I need to work with HR, Human Resources, to ensure that they can
actually do that, that we have the resources to do that, that it's acceptable before we pull this all together.
So a lot of coordination happens internally.
Then, in July, we would come to the Finance and Planning Committee with a discussion item to show what
that initial look of the next five years looks like, as well as the assumptions included in there. Then there's
no meetings in August, We come back in September and ask the committee to approve the recommended
action for the Five-Year Financial Forecast.
Budget process is similar somewhat, but it's at a more detailed level. So we go present a lot more
information, a lot of supporting schedules. the budget book is prepared that's posted out there on the

website. And again, these same categories. Revenue, you can see. I won't go through each of these. But
we actually budget by position. So we know that what our comprehensive operational analysis is, how many
revenue hours we expect to put out there for bus, for rail, and then we build our staffing plans according to
that.
And it's by position. So we do go into a lot of detail for the actual budget. Our debt service, again, is fixed.
We use that from the Debt Service schedules. So we know what that's going to be. We have budget
certainty.
And then our capital, we have new requests for items, and then we have the TAM plan. The TAM plan is
existing assets, condition assessments, replacements, when those have to occur. So that really schedules
things out. The new requests or new items are new initiatives that come up. And those are considered and
prioritized.
They're scored and prioritized, discussed, make sure that we can financially afford them, as well as actually
execute on them. So there's a lot of detail that goes into that piece, too, and a lot of supporting information
that will come to this committee and the Board. And then, finally, fund balances, what's left over. And there's
always a lot of discussion about the purpose and the financial position that those show.
Timeline, March to July, departmental budget preparation. This is internally, a lot of coordination on that
end. Then June, discussion item with the Board just to talk about assumptions that are being made and
how it's shaping up, some things to expect.
By the way, some of the things that we'll know by that time are things like we'll get a Sales and Use Tax
forecast in March that we'll present in April. So there's some information like that that really kind of helps
with an understanding of, as we put this together, where those numbers are coming from. August through
September, internally, we do more and more budget reviews with leadership team, make adjustments. Then
October, we come to the Finance and Planning Committee.
We have the Finance Planning Committee discussion item. We post the draft proposed budget for public
inspection and questioning or any comments that need to be made. Then in November, we come back and
ask the Finance Committee for approval. And again, there's no meeting in December. So we shoot for
November to get that as close to the beginning of the new fiscal year as possible.
Long-range Financial Plan, again, very similar to the Five-Year Financial Forecast. It goes out 30 years. So
obviously, the further you go out when we're using current information, things can change a lot between
now and year 30.
So it is a good planning document to see what's coming down the pike that we do know about. October, we
have on the schedule to bring a discussion item to the Finance and Planning Committee, then the
recommended action in November. And Mr. Chair, that concludes my presentation.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great, thank you very much. I see hands raised from the committee. So, Director
Catlin, I saw your hand first, if you want to proceed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And, Doug, thank you for a really good overview of the process. I
really appreciated it.
But what caught my eye a little bit was that when you talked about the capital projects and prioritization,
and I was wondering what the Board involvement might be with how those capital projects would be

prioritized. It just occurred to me that there might be some differences of opinion on what the priorities would
be for some of those, and recognizing that most of it is the Asset Management Plan, and I appreciate that,
I just wanted to understand how that dialogue or discussion might go. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It looks like Debra raised her hand. So Ms. Johnson, if you'd like to proceed to answer
that and then defer to Doug?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I do think this is a question for me in reference
to the prioritization, because we are leveraging the Transit Asset Management plan. As we go forward, as
you know, that is a requirement of the federal government. And as we have honed in on our aspects of how
we do Transit Asset Management, we're looking at useful life, conditions, and utilizing an operational risk
assessment as we go forward.
So quite naturally, if we see something that's in a state of good repair, whereby we're compromising the
feasibility of operation, quite naturally, that's going to have a higher priority. When we bring those things
forward to the Board, we would explain that to you all in relationship to how we go about programming that
from a budgetary vantage point, because there could be instances whereby there is something unforeseen
that happens that does not fall within the Asset Management framework, whereby it could be that we have
to go through a bypass process.
Say, if a water main broke and impacted a facility or something of the like, we wouldn't be necessarily using
the Transit Asset Management because it would heed our ability to deliver our core transit services, and in
turn, would bring that forward to all of you. So I wanted to provide that context, but then give the floor back
to CFO MacLeod if he wanted to expound on anything else, or correct me if I've misstated what I assume I
would be doing going forward. So thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Really nothing to add. But as Director Catlin had mentioned, the vast, vast
majority of the capital expenditure requests are driven by that federally-required Transit Asset Management
plan. And the new requests are very small, both in number and size, that we go through a prioritization
process. So that's it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great, Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I'd like to, I guess, have a brief discussion about the possibility of changing our fiscal
year. I've had a few discussions with GM Johnson about the January to December fiscal year and how that
works in terms of scheduling or having visibility to our federal funding in particular, which because of the
timing of the federal fiscal year, it seems like it would be more convenient to have a July to June fiscal year.
And also, I learned from those discussions that all of GM Johnson's staff is judged on their performance
based on a July to June fiscal year, which struck me as sort of suboptimal, since you would like to have
alignment in how everybody is measured with the year that you're measuring being one of the first things
to align that.
And apparently, we could, it seems, do basically an 18-month budget with the 2025 budget, so it would
stretch into mid-2026, if we wanted to do that. But I think it could really be a good improvement to our
planning processes. And it seems like it could be possible to do without major undue effort. And so, yeah,
if anyone else wants to comment on that. But I mean, I think it's something that we might want to consider
bringing to the whole Board before we get too far along on the budgeting process.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is there any comment or question about Director Larsen's-- CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And thank you very much, Director Larsen, for broaching that topic.
As he outlined, we have had conversations. I had the opportunity to confer with staff internally. There are
ways in which that can be done so staff is not opposed to that going forward quite naturally.
We could add six months on the back end, which would be easier than doing a CR on the front end as it
relates to where we are now. It would give us an opportunity to adjust systems and things of the like. So
just wanted to ensure that everybody had a clear understanding that staff is not averse to moving forward
if that was the desire of this collective body. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm going to call on Chair Bouquet real quick just to confer with you for a moment.
That would be something that we have not considered and planned for on this committee. Do you have an
opinion on that matter in how you might foresee us proceeding?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, absolutely. So we actually had a conversation with Mr. Kroll. And I believe this
stemmed forth from conversations with Director O'Keefe and then Director Larsen, when it came to the
overall planning process itself. I think I'm very open to the idea behind it in regards to setting our fiscal year
as it is, and that translating to, one, not only potentially evaluation of our CEO and GM, but also, this could
also get into the question of our governance as a Board as well.
And I believe Mr. Kroll mentioned, for example, that the CU Regents, they have their officer elections, I
believe, what, July or June, Mr. Kroll? Yes, and so that would be something to consider as well, is we're all
kind of starting in January, but it is something of consideration that overarches and umbrellas together into
I think it would be beneficial for us.
As we've already had those talks and discussions about setting our short-term goals and basing that on the
budget, I think it all interconnects not only with the fiscal year of the agency, with the evaluation of our CEO
and GM, but as our governance as a Board as well. So I would actually be in favor of us exploring it. I think
it would be beneficial for a myriad of reasons.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, I saw two hands come up. Vice Chair Benker, your hand was up prior to Director
Larsen speaking. Is this about that or something else? And then I saw Director Guissinger's hand go up
while we were discussing this.
So I'm not sure what's relevant to this conversation at the moment. You're on mute, sorry. Vice Chair
Benker, I cannot hear you. I'm so sorry. No, sorry. Let me go to Director Guissinger, and then we'll come
back to you, OK? Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. It is on this topic. I'm just wondering, I'm hearing that people aren't
adverse to it maybe. What our Chair said is, there's more study to be done. It's an interesting idea. Is there
a standard in the industry, Miss Johnson?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Guissinger, for the question.
It depends. I mean, for all intents and purposes, agencies of which I'm familiar traditionally have the fiscal
year July 1 through June 30, but some other agencies, that could be city departments maybe out of
alignment with whatever their municipality or jurisdictional governance structure has collectively.

But the one aspect that's really appealing, just on the face of it, when you recognize all the different elements
that come full circle for staff, as well as this body, December, that is immersed with a lot of religious holidays
and things of the like. Our timeline gets compressed, and that's a prime reason why we elected-- I elected
in support of staff, as we adjusted the performance period here, because people were getting their
performance reviews really in March, because we were so inundated with budget development and all these
other aspects. So from a administrative perspective, it will ease that burden as we move forward.
And then, in light of the federal fiscal year, that won't harm us too much. And then, in reference to our
reporting mechanisms, we can make adjustments as we go forward. So I would say, my familiarity, I can't
speak for the industry, but I would say the vast majority of the top 50 transit agencies traditionally are on a
January 1 to June 30 fiscal year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: January-- you mean July 1?
DEBRA JOHNSON: July, I'm sorry. It's been a long day. I stand corrected.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It just threw me there.
[LAUGHS]
OK, well, I guess I hadn't spent a lot of time thinking about it. But it sounds like it's worth checking out. And
thanks for raising it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great, thank you. Director Benker, Vice Chair Benker, unmute yourself though. Oh, I
still can't hear you. Do you have a Bluetooth connected by any chance? Sometimes that interferes with the
microphone.
OK, you could call in on your cell phone, was an advice that I was given to be able to get the audio as well,
when I was a new director. So there's a number to call in to have the audio available too. Yeah. OK, Director
Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was going to say that as we pursue some of these partnerships,
particularly with CDOT, their fiscal year is July 1 through June 30, and it might be worthy of consideration
just to understand what our partners are dealing with, especially with fiscal-- I mean, even though the fiscal
year is a little different, it would just be nice to be in sync with some of them. I mean, I'm not wedded either
way, but I do think that there's some reasonable justification for shifting the fiscal year for RTD.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It sounds like we have a good opinion. Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yeah, I was just curious if anybody had context as to why we're on the
calendar year, how that decision was ultimately made. And then, the other thing I would say is, certainly
not adverse to explore changing fiscal year-- yeah, fiscal years, but would consider-- I mean, if we're already
up against the clock, consider kicking the can out to the year after next for that decision, if we don't have
appropriate time to study and understand the pros and cons of making this change.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Noted. CFO MacLeod or Ms. Johnson, this was a decision that predated me, so I'm
going to defer to both of you. Please, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. I don't know. I would defer to Mr. MacLeod. But if I can, before
I do that, as it relates to Director Gutschenritter's comment, for all intents and purposes, if this Board elected

to do an 18-month budget, that's within your purview. And so basically, it could revert back to a 12-month
budget as well.
So I just wanted to qualify that in light of what Mr. MacLeod presented, if in fact, we had a 12-month budget
and one wasn't approved, and we continued on, as well, with a continuing resolution, whether it's 90%, it's
not set in stone at that juncture because you guys have the policy authority to change that. But I'll yield the
floor to Mr. MacLeod as he gives us a history lesson in why we have a calendar year.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you, General Manager Johnson. I don't know if it's because it's
always been like that. I think there's several things that would want to be considered. So for instance, just
a couple-- well, with the last collective bargaining agreement with the ATU, they used to be on a March
beginning cycle. We actually changed that so it lined up with our fiscal year end.
I don't know if that's super critical in the whole scheme of things, because we want to do what's best for the
agency, what works best in terms of timing and availability. I can only surmise there were certain
considerations like that taken into account, such as our service changes, January service change, end of
fiscal year right before that. There could be factors like that. And I only mention that, I'm assuming, but I'm
just guessing that some of those factors were taken into account. But as Miss Johnson says, it's definitely
a policy decision for the Board.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And really quickly, if I may, just by virtue, with service changes, that's traditional in the
transit industry because they're seasonal, i.e. with school calendar year. So I've had service changes three
times a year and have been on a traditional fiscal year of July 1 through June 30. So to your point, Doug,
just to further amplify, it's really up to what this governing body wants to do. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Vice Chair Benker, let's try this. Oh, you might have to unmute your phone,
though. Oh, go ahead. And Vice Chair Benker, will you call my phone real quick?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr. Chair, it's a good thing we're not voting on Northwest Rail Funding Allocation
tonight.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: [LAUGHS]
I guarantee you, that would not be a problem. We would find a way. Chair Bouquet, go ahead and speak.
And then, Karen, if you would call me, that would be helpful.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I was just going to say, just based on the feedback I given from this committee,
I think it is something that-- I'm not sure if this would fall into the scope of work that Director O'Keefe and
Director Larsen are doing in regards to studying the short-term goal planning. But I believe that is actually
where the conversation began. I think it is something for us to study in an 18-month period, again, related
not only to the fiscal year itself, but also when it comes to the Board governance, and also when we're
evaluating our CEO and GM. I think it is beneficial to explore that.
There's a lot of things, so just think about it. Miss Johnson brought up religious holidays. And it's difficult for
us at the very end of the year to put this all together compared to doing this during the summer months.
Just as a side note, we did have the conversation in regards to governance. If we are electing our Chair of
the Board in the summer months, it does give an opportunity for potentially new directors to have five to six

months under their belt before they decide to run for an Officer position. I think there's a lot of benefit into
exploring that. I don't want to add to your scope of work, Director Larsen or Director O'Keefe. But I think
this is all intertwined with one another.
And I think there's a lot of benefits to it and has brought up, looking at that peer-- I should say, looking at
other agencies, such as CDOT. Having the same calendar, I think would be very beneficial. So I think it is
something to explore.
And if it doesn't fall into that scope of work, it is something that I can have the conversation with Miss
Johnson in regards to what is the potential next steps of this and probably a better conversation in regards
to other directors exploring this. So just wanted to give that feedback that there is significant amount of
interest with this. And I believe this is something we should explore this year. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, I'm going to add my two cents if that's OK for everybody. I think it would be
a wise idea. I would be concerned with a couple of things, making sure that whatever changes to the budget
that we make are reported in a timely and efficient manner to our oversight commitments at the state, so
that we don't get dinged for any issues with our budgeting process. And I'm not sure what that would entail,
considering it takes us a month of public feedback to be able to do the regular budget, so something that
would need to be explored.
But if we're just adding on to the end an additional six months to line this up, I think it would be worth the
conversation. But I will leave that for further work, so Chair Bouquet and I can talk about that with staff and
figure that out going forward. Thank you for the idea and the instruction, Director Larsen. Go ahead.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I will put together, I guess-- work with everyone and put together a proposal that
can be distributed to the entire Board that, I guess, makes the case for this. And we can figure out when it
might make sense to discuss it more broadly.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, the only other concern that I would have is to make sure that we are considerate
of the fact that our CFO is retiring, and his team will have to take up a lot of that work. And so we will need
to make sure that we time it out in a way that does not injure the staff's ability to complete the work that
we've already asked them to do for this year. That said, I think it can be done. I'm sure that it can be, but
we just want to make sure that we're cognizant of that as we go forward.
All right, were there any other conversations in our-- any other comments on the Budget Process overview
for anybody? OK, going once, going twice. The fifth and final item, this is to identify comparable agencies
for cost efficiency comparisons. And again for the last time tonight, Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial
Officer, would you please present this item?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Yes, I do have a few slides here to go through. So I'll just
start by saying, this has come up in several venues when we talk about metrics. How do we compare to
other agencies, not just with metrics, but just general questions? So we thought this would be a good
discussion item to present some of the things that we should consider as an agency in establishing some
of those goals or metrics.
So I'll go through a little bit of background why this has been a topic of discussion, then we'll go into a little
bit of the considerations where data may come from, and just some things for the committee to mull over
as we continue to evaluate how do we compare to other agencies, for instance. And oftentimes, I let slip

myself even the term "peer agencies." And there's really not peers. And you'll see why when we start looking
at the data. So you can, say RTD is peerless.
So just the background on this. Financial metrics reporting, it's really helpful sometimes to have metrics just
putting-- or goals and targets. It's one thing to just put metrics out there, but if you don't know the context
or have something to compare it to, it may not be that informative.
The Office of the State Auditor completed a performance audit of RTD. And the report was delivered to the
Legislative Audit committee in August of 2024. Within some of those recommendations was additional
reporting on financial metrics. And one of the recommendations that they made was that not only should
RTD report these specific metrics, but they should compare themselves to other agencies as a basis for
evaluation for the reader.
Metrics can provide performance information on a trended basis. You can see how we're performing over
time. And then again, the more that we can provide in terms of information that's understandable, the more
transparent we can be as an agency. So it's also important [AUDIO OUT] for us to take into consideration
as an agency what's understandable from somebody who may not work in the numbers every day.
So when we look at metrics, some of the things that we'll want to consider as an agency is, we have
quantitative and qualitative metrics. Quantitative metrics are numerical. They're objective. They're pretty
straightforward.
Qualitative metrics, we have a lot of those that we go through, too, that could come back in the form of
survey responses, like what do you think of RTD, is your money [AUDIO OUT], are they managing financial
taxpayer money well. And you can have a scale on that, so you have numbers. But it's still kind of qualitative.
It's subjective. So that's something to take into consideration as we do comparisons.
Comparability across time periods or groups, so time periods, obviously, you'd like to see trends. But you
also need to take into account what's changed over that time. There's inflation if you're looking at expenses,
so it's not necessarily a one to one. And then, amongst groups, I'll talk about this a little bit more, but an
example might be different modes.
It's difficult to compare a financial metric from the mode of bus to rail because they're basically different
animals. They need to be understandable. So usually, the description of the metric is very helpful to
understand what's actually going in there. But just for the general public, if I throw some obscure financial
metric out there, they may not know what it's trying to convey.
And then correlation versus causation, you can have two metrics that move, that correlate to each other,
but they may have no relationship at all. So it's important to understand if there's correlation between metrics
and then what's causing the changes in those metrics. They can be used for analytics, obviously, to see
how we're performing on a variety of subjects. And then it's also important that, when you do a metric,
maybe not just put a metric out there just for metric's purposes. It should be something that's actionable or
provides information.
So when we talk about transit agencies, there's one good source of information. And it's the National Transit
Database. So every year, agencies are required to file a certain amount of data. And it's basically broken
into two large categories.
It's all the financial and statistical data as one submission that happens that's required by April 30 of each
year. All agencies put that in. Prior to submission, it's reviewed by our external auditors. And then it's

published, usually in the July through August time frame for all agencies. So it's available out there, but not
until August of the following year, perhaps.
It provides standardized annualized reporting. So every agency is required to provide certain information
that's consistent. So it makes it relatively comparable, so we know that the data sources are all supposed
to be the same information.
And the important thing to consider is when you're comparing this information, do they have similar
underlying characteristics. So I'll give you an example in a couple of slides how not all transit agencies are
the same, because the underlying characteristics, the modes they provide, the geographic coverage, the
population, there's all sorts of things to take into consideration when doing comparisons. The MTD has
similar data inputs, like I said, their standardization of what's submitted and what it represents. And then
there's also something to take into consideration that we may not know about. So trend adjustments, when
we talked about the financial statements, you look at our operating expenses, in 2024 and 2025, we have
that pass-through grant of $156 million.
So if you just take, for instance, a metric of operating expenses per boarding, and then you're trucking
along, you get to '24 and '25 and it spikes way up, it's because we had a one-time cost running through our
budget. So there's all these things that need to be taken into consideration. As long as the user knows
what's going into there, they can make, hopefully, good decisions or make that data useful.
So I mentioned a few of these just a minute ago, comparative considerations when you're looking at other
transit agencies or even RTD by itself, what transit modes are you looking at? Rail tends to be more
expensive on a fully loaded basis than bus, because we have so much infrastructure that's depreciating.
There's paratransit services, which is much different than our bus services. So all these things need to be
taken into account when we decide on what metrics to use and how to compare them.
Population density is important. We have very big region and we're not very dense. We're really spread out
when you compare ourselves to like New York City. Geographic coverage, again, very spread out, lots of
deadhead time getting buses to places before they're put into [INAUDIBLE] service.
Lots of considerations on the underlying data, what it represents. Schedules and frequency, obviously,
would create differences in the numbers that are being reported. And then, of course, cost of living or
inflation, so if you compare Denver to another metro area, it may be a whole different cost of living, may be
more expensive. All those factors don't lend themselves to doing one-to-one comparison in all instances.
So here's just an example, at a high level, some of the characteristics of some of the similar agencies. But
you can see they're not exactly similar. RTD is at the top, 2,345 square miles in the service area, population
just over 3 million people. Of course, we have bus, light rail, commuter rail.
And if you go right down to the next one, they're kind of similar in certain respects in that they have bus and
light rail, but they don't have commuter rail. They're about half our size in terms of service area and, what,
15% of our size in terms of service area. So you start looking at cost per mile or cost per boarding, some
of those can get skewed, and they're not necessarily comparative.
One of the ones that may be more similar to a certain extent is SEPTA at the bottom, Southeast
Pennsylvania Transit Authority. So there, they have a large population in a very small area, 844 square
miles. They offer bus and commuter rail. But they also have heavy rail, streetcar, and trolley that we don't

have. So if you look at their total operating expenses per rider, for example, as a metric, compare it to ours,
they're not the same thing.
And then if we delve down into the numbers, just a little bit more information about how we differ in certain
respects. So if you go all the way to the right, those are some of the metrics comparisons, operating
expenses per unlinked passenger trip, which is the same thing as boardings. So operating expenses per
unlinked passenger trip-- sorry, there's some digits that got cut off here, but you can see $10.84 for RTD.
Tri County is $10.20, fairly close.
But then you go over to operating expense for vehicle revenue mile, and there's quite a difference there,
$13 versus almost $16. So I guess all this is to say is we want to present to this committee a thought
exercise. We're considering metrics and other comparative type of statistics. There's good information out
there, but it's not necessarily comparable.
And so what we've talked about internally among staff is we're developing some of these comparative
metrics. Possibly, if we go down to a more detailed level, comparing a mode that RTD has to another mode
in a similar area. Bus to bus, for instance, that might be a valid comparison.
And then, a lot of times, if we're going to present this information, and we will because we agreed to it with
the Office of the State Auditor audit, we'll probably have a lot of notations caveating, hey, RTD-- or may
have an adjustment, RTD needs to take out this Passenger expense because it skews the numbers and
it's not comparative. So these are all the things that we're considering internally in how do we get something
that's useful to the Board as well as the general public when they look at our financial performance. So, Mr.
Chair, that was just a quick run through of what we're looking at.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Would you mind putting your screen back up real quick for me? And can you go back
to the list of comparative agencies? There were two different slides.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So you can just pick whichever one. It's fine. OK, so I'm going to use privilege for just
a moment. And as this is a thought experiment and an exercise, I quickly pulled up my notes from the
January meeting, where we talked about some agencies that we were comparing ourselves to in terms of
ridership increases back in the beginning of the year. And there, in that list, were some interesting groups,
right?
So one of the ones that stood out, I think to everybody, was the San Diego combined, for example, that we
were compared to. And the question came up, well, what does that mean? Because there's several different
transit agencies that are working together in San Diego, as was pointed out by General Manager CEO
Johnson. So when we look at this, you could look at Austin, you could look at Houston-- those aren't listed
here-- Sacramento, Metro Minneapolis, different things like that.
So one of the things that occurred to me while I was reviewing this, for everybody's edification, is that there's
another component that's not listed here, which really is important. How are those agencies funded? We
are funded through Sales and Use Tax and through federal funding, with a very limited amount of state
funding currently. And some of these other ones are fully funded through their states-- MDTA, WMATA,
which is a tri-state area plus the federal district funding them, things like that.
So as we look at these for comparison or contrast, and as we are considering what comparative agencies
we might be looking at, I think one of the smart ways to do this would also be to look at their funding

structures, or at least consider what the funding structures look like for each of these agencies. And it's
important because a smaller, denser area that might get a large amount of funding, WMATA might be a
good example where their train system is mostly enclosed, it's a third of our area size, and they've got three
times our budget, but they have three states helping them out. That's something to consider on how they
can provide the services that they provide in the way that they provide the services they provide.
Where you have Metro Minneapolis, which is funded through the state but then overseen by city councilors
in the city, who are currently looking at removing that piece-- potentially removing that piece of authority
from them and creating a separate transit board that would be directly elected from the taxpayers-- they
haven't made a decision on that yet, but it was something that they were studying-- versus Dallas Area
Rapid Transit, where the taxes are collected and paid for the whole system.
And they have directors that are overseeing their system with, similar to us, certain cities or certain
neighborhoods within the Dallas area that are questioning whether they should continue funding the rapid
transit system in the Dallas area. And so, all of that to say, these are some really key things to look at in
terms of how we compare ourselves. But we are really quite unique in how we are funded. And that affects
everything else that we do. So I'll leave it there. Director Larsen, your hand is raised. Go ahead.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I agree with Chair Guzman's comments. And I also think that, you know, I think
what you have up here right now is, is definitely some systems that represent cities that at least in many
respects, are kind of similar to us. I mean, it I don't know how much we can. I would like to see a comparison
versus cities that are different than us, too.
I mean, for example, what is the most efficient transit agency, by whatever measure you want to choose,
in this country? And what are the characteristics that we might be able to see with some of these data points
that align with that? Because I think that it's probably going to be the case or it might be the case that you'll
find some of the most efficient systems are some of the ones with smaller surface area.
And that would be an interesting data point as well. So I don't know if we just have to do ones that are most
similar, but it might be interesting at least to select some that are pretty different as well. That's it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Cool. Yeah, a Merrimack Valley in Hanover, Massachusetts comes to mind, where
they offer free fare. And they run their buses all over the place in that area. But they are bus and paratransit
only. They don't have rail because that's handled through Amtrak and the Northwest Rail Corridor under
the MBTA.
So I think the question here is, for everybody, if I understand it correctly from the OSA audit and where I'm
at, that we need to come up with some ideas and understanding of what we're comparing and why we're
comparing it, and then find some agencies that we can do legitimate comparison to based on a multitude
of factors, that we're not just completely comparing ourselves to something that's ridiculous and makes no
sense. And so we get to opine here, as directors, we get to do our job as directors, elected directors, right?
And we get to guide some of this agency policy.
And we also get to determine for ourselves who we're comparing ourselves to and who those comparative
agencies are and why they're valid for our comparison purposes. So I think that there's a really important
conversation that we're starting here. And I want you all to consider it and bring some ideas forward. This
is the beginning of the conversation, not the end of it.

But justify what you're bringing forward, why would we look at that agency, and what's the value of knowing
that. To your point, Director Larsen, exactly, a smaller agency that might be more efficient that just does
bus service might be a great way to compare ourselves to and looking at what their efficiencies are or their
boardings are. But we're also not offering zero fare for folks all the time. And so there's a good comparison
in terms of service delivery or procurement or whatever. And we can do some work there.
If you don't mind, Chair Bouquet, I'm going to call on Director Gutschenritter because he's on the committee.
And then I'll follow up with you. Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you, Chair Guzman. And you might have answered this already, but
in terms of the OSA audit and in terms of comparing ourselves to other organizations, do we know
specifically what criteria or data points we're looking to compare? I mean, is it cost per rider? Is it on-time
performance? Maybe, in terms of an exercise, it might be worth narrowing down what it is we want to
compare ourselves against to then determine who's comparable to us.
And then just the only other thing-- well, two things. One, agree very much with CFO MacLeod that I think
we're just going to have to be prepared to caveat and asterisk the heck out of whoever we compare
ourselves to. And then the last thing I'll say is that I think there's a little bit of safety in numbers. So if we get
too narrow in who we're comparing ourselves to, that could be dangerous. And so there should-- I don't
know, minimum of three or four. That's all I had to say.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great, thank you. CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Chair Guzman. To Director Gutschenritter's comments, I
agree. As you have heard me say, Chair Guzman, I think it's based upon the topical matter in which we're
trying to do comparisons, because if we're talking about service delivery efficiency, we need to look at the
modalities, recognizing that one of our commuter rail lines, the A in particular, we operate that more or less
like heavy rail or light rail, not traditional commuter rail.
So all of those different elements have to be taken into consideration. So I do concur, as we go forward,
there could be select agencies for comparator purposes, but there's different elements that we have to
utilize, because when we talk about the efficiency, taking a San Francisco municipal transportation agency
49 square miles, I don't know what their stats are now, but back when I was there, prior to the pandemic, I
mean, that city was moving more than its population.
It could be a million boardings per day, because people are coming into the city utilizing various aspects of
other transit agencies within the greater nine-county Bay Area. But within the city and county of San
Francisco, with the various modes i.e. trolley coaches, historic streetcars, articulated buses, and light rail
that runs in a subterranean configuration, you're not competing with other elements representing
operational hindrances. So I just share that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Sorry, Director Bouquet. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I just wanted to say, I really appreciated your presentation, Mr. MacLeod. I recognize
that there's very differing components for every agency and that there's no real peer agency to RTD. But I
just, I really appreciated that presentation. And I think we need to be careful, when we compare ourselves
to other agencies, that we provide context for what it is that we're doing. So I just wanted to thank you
because this gave a lot of clarity to me. Thank you.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a quick comment. Director Gutschenritter did ask a question about what the OSA
was looking for. And so it was a number of things, but mostly comparative agencies that we could look to
for statistical information and how we're comparing in terms of recovery, which I think was the biggest
question that they were trying to get at. But there's so many ways to get to that understanding and what
that means that they didn't quite pin it down even for us.
But I know there were some specifics in the OSA audit report. And I don't have it in front of me. At the top
of my head, I can't remember what all of them were. But it's boardings, it's on-time service, it's performance.
It's a number of things that they were looking at. So just to directly answer that question, I know, but I don't
know. And I know where to find it. So I can follow up with you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just a question for Miss Johnson. Does it make sense at all-- we've talked
about San Diego and San Francisco and Seattle and places that have multiple agencies where one might
handle rail and one might handle bus, and they might have much smaller areas. Does it make sense at all
to look at some of those where we're looking at two or three or so individual agencies and saying, here's
what we do, and here's what these others have several agencies or two or three agencies to do in a similar
way?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. And so, Director Guissinger, thank you for that. I mean, I
would say the simple answer is, yes, but with the examples that you just provided, like in combined, San
Diego, North County Transit District provides rail service, they provide commuter rail service, San Diego
MTS provides light rail service. So these agencies in some instances are providing different aspects of rail.
The same thing within San Francisco Bay Area, there's multiple agencies that provide rail. So it's just
contingent upon, going back to what I said earlier, the topical issue in and of itself, because you have so
many different entities feeding into one Metro region with the ones you just outlined. And so here, we're the
only intermodal transit agency in the state.
But in greater San Diego County, if I think just off the top of my head, you probably have at least 10 there.
In LA County, you have 28. In the Bay Area, you have 26. And so I'll just leave it there. But yes,
[INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: I wasn't trying to-- I didn't realize the numbers were that big.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I wasn't trying to get into something like that. But if there are places that do the
same sort of work, but it's two or three or four agencies, it might be interesting, at least for us to look at.
Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mm-hmm.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Also, we're missing Albuquerque, which has a train and some buses, and it's the
largest city in New Mexico, most populous. So there's a bunch of places we could look at for different
reasons. It's just an interesting conversation altogether. Chair Bouquet, you are recognized.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair. So I have a question and then a comment.
So again, looking at the report itself, this obviously was a recommendation of OSA to identify peer agency
when it comes down to cost efficiency.
And I saw the quotations with "peer agency" when it came to the presentation itself. So based on the six
that were listed in our presentation, this was for specifically this presentation alone, these were identified
as "peer agencies" based on transit modes, population density, geographic coverage, schedule and service
frequency, and then cost of living. Is that correct?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, CFO MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question, Chair Bouquet. Somewhat, yes. Basically, the
OSA had come up with some of them just scanning through the NTD data to look at some areas that were
similar. And there are literally hundreds of agencies out there.
So when you look through the NTD database, there's tiny, tiny agencies all the way up to massive agencies.
And so what we tried to do is just get some that looked relatively similar and had some similar
characteristics. So there's nothing magic about these ones that were selected necessarily, but they're
relatively comparative.
JULIEN BOUQUET: May I?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. So going forward, these wouldn't be used as peer agencies going-- OK. So
I'll go with the statement that has been made. And I think Committee Chair Guzman hit on it. This agency,
in my opinion, needs to establish peer agencies. It needs to do this.
I truly believe this should be a goal, not specifically the Board, but potentially a short-term goal going into,
for 2026, establishing peer agencies for this agency. Why I say that is when there is a void, the imagination
of the public or anyone who might be anti RTD fills that void. And many issues that we see with our agency,
be it ridership numbers, be it a welcoming transit environment, be it on-time performance, these issues are
not unique to RTD.
And I'm not saying this as ultimately an excuse, but rather, if we were able to identify five or so peer agencies
and say, this is the comparables that we have, that allows for greater understanding for the public to see
where RTD is compared to something. And if that is something that's shown on a performance dashboard,
I think that would be excellent. But I truly believe that there has to be an establishment of X number of peer
agencies going forward into the future so that we can actually have a greater understanding for the public
when it comes down to frustrations or issues that might be seen on our agency, to basically say, this is not
a unique issue to RTD. But these are just my two cents.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I would, just semantics, comparator agencies or comparative agencies
rather than peers because the word "establishment" would presume that we would be building a new transit
agency, maybe. And I don't want to give that impression. We're just looking for the ones that we're
comparing ourselves to, right? Language-- my English is kicking my butt right now. Forgive me, Chair
Bouquet. But I think that's what you meant, right? We need to determine who we are comparing ourselves
to.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, my apologies for using the wrong language on that. One of the goals going
forward for this agency is to determine who are our peer agencies. I believe that is what I was advocating
for, so apologies for any confusion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you, Committee Chair Guzman. And thank you, Chair Bouquet. I hear you
loudly and clearly, but I would be remiss in my duty here as being the General Manager and CEO, while I
understand that we want to ensure that we're identifying agencies to which we can compare, there's a
multitude of other elements that have to be taken into consideration, because in absence of doing that, it'd
be difficult and we would just be comparing apples to fish as we move forward.
Because considering we are the only intermodal transit agency, and RTD likes to pride itself on being the
first P3, and so when you say there's other agencies to which we compare, there's not, relative to P3s of
that magnitude. However, with that as the backdrop, what I have shared with staff is that our intention to
identify comparable agencies of which we can utilize based upon certain elements, because when we talk
about boardings, boardings are different when you factor in that we could have had a situation where we
haven't had new rail lines coming on board. So I hear you loudly and clearly. And we will do that as we
proceed forward from a topical issue. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a quick question. How soon or what is your anticipated timeline for us getting
feedback to you about this matter? I mean, this can't be the only option right now. But what would you
expect from the Board of Directors, CEO Johnson or CFO MacLeod, for your teams to be able to move
forward with some input from the Board. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Committee Chair Guzman. I would say that we will be
working on this collectively. And not to eliminate the Board, but I'm just saying, when you're looking at
trackless trolleys, I mean, there's only a handful of agencies that currently run trackless trolleys, right, or
trolley coaches, depending on the nomenclature at the agency. So we wouldn't want to necessarily hone in
on that.
The Board may not have that understanding of what I mean by "trackless trolleys" going forward. So for all
intents and purposes, we would do our due diligence, bring it forward to the Board, just as we did today, to
have a discussion and give you the opportunity to opine. That's what I think that would be most judicial in
reference to this-- not to qualify it as an exercise, but this undertaking in reference to what the topical issues
may be, and then utilizing National Transit Data information.
Because let's keep in mind that there are actually 4,400 agencies within the US, 4,400. So I did want to call
that out. So maybe we want to hone in on the top 50 looking at the NTD database, as well, as we go
forward, and looking at their operating models that would be more in alignment with how we deliver transit
services.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes, this being a thought exercise was just thinking if there would be any
merit in looking at an agency and then extrapolating those numbers to make them more comparable to

RTD by expanding-- hey, here's what their actual numbers are. But if you were to align that more closely to
the mileage of track that we have or the number of buses that we have, you could have a second chart that
then makes it a little more applicable. That's just one thought. And after hearing CEO Johnson's that there's
4,400 agencies in the US, I don't think this is necessary, but would there be any value in looking outside of
the US and trying to see if there was any other similar agencies? Just a thought.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good question. CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. And thank you, Director
Gutschenritter. I would say, as it relates to looking outside of the US, I would opt that we would not because
the US is way behind the eight ball in transit service delivery, just by virtue of having only two equipment
manufacturers for bus that will be willing to provide manufactured buses to us, whereas outside of this
country, there's double digit manufacturers moving forward.
And I would say, as it relates to looking at data and maybe extrapolating what may be pertinent, we could
do that. And I say "we could do that," because if you look at track, our whole instance here is that we only
have one light rail operating facility. So to the point that CFO MacLeod raised about deadhead miles, all of
those different things come into play. And we would have to do a lot of research to determine how many
operating facilities one had going forward.
But I like what you're saying. But we could literally delve in as we focus on maybe the top 50, since RTD is
a member of the top 50 transit agencies just by virtue of the stats, recognizing rolling stock, the service
areas, population, and other things we could align around. Thank you,
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: I was just going to say, if we do look outside the US, I think we should look at Canada.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Noted. Go ahead. Thank you. Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I appreciate that, Director Larsen. But if we looked at TTC, like the Toronto
Transportation Corporation, it's one of the largest in the world and is quite notable. So I'm just-MATT LARSEN: Calgary.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, I mean, there is Calgary. One of my kitchen cabinet members runs Calgary. But
yet, there's others. But funding structure is different. But yes, I appreciate that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I mean, if we're going for it, I'm going to say Bogota and Uruguay. But Montevideo is
a completely different animal. And it's not comparable at all to anything in North America. So just to be
clear, we have to be careful.
Let's limit it to maybe the US. It might be better to do it that way for now. Although, there may be occasion,
who knows, CEO Johnson, where we might need to look at our neighbors to the north for some help. And
we'll find the appropriate ones at the time we need it, right? I think it's a worthy conversation when it's
needed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, and I will say that considering Canada, like APTA, they're members, right? APTA
represents North America. So we engage with our neighbors to the north quite frequently, Director Larsen.

So that's not far off by any stretch of the imagination. And there could be some. It's just the whole
governance issue and how they fund transit is a lot different than in the US, which I think would make it
more challenging. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And they do know something about operating in sub-zero temperatures quite a bit of
the year. So there might be a reason to compare ourselves to them in certain instances. All right, is there
any more discussion on this matter?
I don't see any hands raised. Thank you so much for the conversation and digging in with us, CFO MacLeod.
And to your team, thank you so much for all of the hard work and the presentation.
Before I open the floor up to additional other matters, I do want to take a moment-- I'm going to try and get
through this without crying-- to recognize that this is very likely to be CFO. Doug McLeod's last Finance and
Planning Committee meeting as our CFO at RTD. I want to recognize his many, many contributions to RTD
and to this committee, to me personally, helping me understand and learn very quickly, on a very fast scale,
all that I needed to know as a new Director, as a Vice Chair, and beyond what I could have asked for in
terms of mentorship and service to the Board and to the public by that work.
He has served RTD admirably for nearly 15 years and has served as our CFO for the past five years. Prior
to that, he served as the agency's controller. So with the very heartfelt thank you, CFO MacLeod, thank you
for being a partner to me as Chair of this committee, to all the prior chairs of this committee who send all
their love to you and all of their thanks.
I have especially appreciated you and your team's ability to meet directors where we are at, which is not
always easy, to take the necessary time to educate us, and for always putting the best interests of the
district first. You've been an incredible asset to RTD. And your public service has been exemplary. I'm really
going to miss hearing your calming voice when things get tense, because it often brings everybody back
down to Earth.
[LAUGHS]
And I wish you the best as you embark on your retirement soon.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you very much. I very much appreciate that. I'll miss all of you, too. It's been
fantastic working with all of you. I'll be around, so you can't get rid of me that easily. And so I really
appreciate the comments. That's very kind. And thank you, Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you very much, Committee Chair. I will be piggybacking off of that. I
want to say a big congratulations to you, Mr. MacLeod, and an even bigger thank you. I've greatly
appreciated you keeping this Board informed in a timely and professional manner, be it during our monthly
F&P meetings or hopping on the mic in real-time during our in-person meetings.
You've always been ready to answer on the spot vast majority of the questions that directors have had. And
I thank you very much for your expertise on that. I do want to say that the financial health of RTD could not
be where it is without your work.
I do personally believe there's a financial storm that's going to greatly impact the US and the rest of the
world, that's most likely going to be happening this year. But I think the work that you have done, Mr.

MacLeod, has put this agency in a much more stable and sturdy position to fight against any turbulence.
And this is because of all the work that you have done. You leave this agency at a much healthier state
financially, and there are some massive shoes that need to be filled.
On behalf of the Board, I wish you a very well-earned retirement. And I do hope you find something to do
with your Tuesday nights. And enjoy maybe a special dinner every time that an F&P meeting would be
scheduled or a regular scheduled Board meeting would be happening. So congratulations to you, sir. Thank
you so much for your service.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair, very much appreciated.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I couldn't have said it better, Chair Bouquet. I have so much appreciated your
counsel and your education during my seven years on the Board. And as Chair of the Finance Committee
in years past, I just really want to express my appreciation for your very calm and-- the way you explain
things is just perfect.
And I just wanted to say godspeed with you and good luck on your retirement. And after seven years, I'm
sorry to see you go. But I am excited for your new opportunities. And thank you so much. It's been a
pleasure working with you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Catlin. Pleasure is mine. It's been all mine, really, working with all
of you, too. So thank you very much.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. MacLeod, is there anything else you would like to say? You've done a lot of talking
tonight.
DOUG MACLEOD: I don't think so. Like I said, I'll be around for a while. If there's anything I can help with,
I've already spoken with General Manager Johnson, and I'll be available if anything comes up that I can
help with. I just, you know, I'll come to the-- if there's a retirement recognition, I'll definitely come and say a
few words for that at the Board meeting when we recognize retirees.
But it's really been an honor and a privilege to work at RTD. It really is a fantastic place. And even more
important is the people that work here. And the mission that we have is just-- I couldn't have asked for a
better career here. So thank you very much to everybody.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. All right, with that, are there any other matters to discuss? I see no hands
raised, Directors, so I am going to bring it home.
The next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, April 8. At that meeting, our
work plan has cued up an action item for the revisions to the 2025 fiscal policy, as we discussed tonight.
Additionally, we will have important discussions on a proposed equitable transit-oriented development
policy as well as our federal funding environment.
We should know more next month. We will also host an external entity report to receive an updated Sales
and Use Tax forecast. Seeing no other discussion, this meeting-- well, let me call for it. I would entertain a
motion to adjourn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.

SPEAKERS: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. Seeing no other discussion, the meeting is adjourned at 7:31
PM. To our transcriptionist, thank you for letting us go over 1 minute. Have a good night. Thank you.

