2020-07-16
GMES-GMOC
PEGGY CATLIN: I will convene this meeting at 1:35. Welcome, all of you. And I just wanted to
call this meeting to order. And I think we're going to start out with a presentation from legal and
our EEO, but I wanted Gregg to tee it up a little bit, since he's had some prior conversations with
these folks about what the purpose of this agenda item is. So Gregg, take it away, please.
GREGG MOSER: Thank you, Director Catlin. Can you hear me OK?
PEGGY CATLIN: I can. Can everyone else?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, great. I just wanted to make sure I wasn't on mute again. So thank you. I
think that the purpose of the EEO is-- and I had an opportunity, a chance with both legal and EEO
earlier this week, and they brought to my attention, and actually, what's interesting is this is the
first time this has been raised in my work as an executive recruiter, but they brought to my attention
that the [AUDIO OUT] different requirements with recruiting and hiring practices and thought it
was important for us to be mindful of that as we go through our process.
And so from my perspective, I want this to be as positive and as successful a process as we possibly
can make it. I want you to get the best candidate you can ultimately get. And [AUDIO OUT] back,
and hopefully we're meeting at an APTA conference past COVID at some point in the next couple
of years. And you say to me, where I'm in Denver, and you say to me, this has been a really great
search. This was a really great search, and we're really happy with the CEO we have, and we're
doing great things.
So in the end, I think we want to try to make sure that we can do whatever we can to make this a
great process for our candidates also. We've got-- I think we've got a really strong, diverse group
of candidates. We've got really great candidates, and at the end of the day, only one is going to get
hired. And that means that if you look at-- I don't know what the exact number is. I'm still working
through putting my list together to finalize to be able to send to you Sunday.
But let's say there's 12 candidates. Only one is going to get hired. That means 11 people have to
go back to other jobs or whatever else they're doing in life. And I think we want to make this a
really positive experience for them also. And so to that end, I think our goal is to make sure that
we treat everybody fairly, and we give them equal opportunity, and we ensure that our process is
sound.
And candidly, I think at the end of the day, it's also about managing risk for RTD, both as individual
directors, as the process for everybody involved. And then also, we want to make sure that it's a
really great experience, and no one feels like they need to challenge the process or anything like
that. And we don't want RTD-- obviously, from a financial perspective, we want to make sure that
RTD is protected as well.

You know, money is limited. Budgets are limited. We want to make sure that we're not creating
any additional exposure that we don't need to do that. So I think that that's the goal here at the end
of the day. And to the extent that they can offer some guidance, since they have the expertise and
the knowledge behind this, I think it would be really helpful for us to just hear and understand that.
Is not helpful, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, thank you very much. So Melanie, if you would like to start out?
MELANIE SNYDER: Sure. So thank you, Chair Catlin, and thank you Mr. Moser. As he said, we
were invited to get sort of a short refresher to you all about some civil rights and legal
considerations in connection with this search. I know that you just went through the search for the
interim GM position and that several, if not all of you, have already been involved in prior
executive searches. So I know that this will be a sort of overview for you all, and we're going to
try to keep it pretty high level today.
But I do want to just remind you that our team is really available to support you and answer any
questions you might have through this process. So you don't need to feel like today's your only
time to talk about these issues. So before we get started, I am going to ask our civil rights team to
introduce themselves, because I'm not sure everyone has met. So Zami?
ZAMI SILVA: Thank you, Melanie, and thank you, Chair Catlin. This is Zami Silva. I oversee the
Civil Rights Division here at RTD, and I have with me today the expert in the field of EEO, and I
will let her introduce herself. Kathryne?
KATHRYNE GROVE: --rises to the level of Zami's introduction of me. But yeah, I'm the manager
of the EEO office here at RTD.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, so obviously, this is a critical role that we're looking to fill, and it's
going to be very important to the agency and also the people that rely on the district services. So
as Gregg said, we really are trying to focus on having a very transparent and fair and uniform
process that we can all feel good about and that really everyone involved in the process will walk
away and feel like they had a fair opportunity to engage in the process.
So you'll hear us talk a lot about [AUDIO OUT] and really promoting public trust in the process.
So I'm going to talk a little bit about just a very quick refresher on open meetings fora and the
confidentiality agreement you signed, and then Kathryne is going to talk a bit about our civil rights
laws.
So Open Meetings Law-- I think you all are familiar that there are very specific requirements
related to an executive search that requires that the board and even a committee set out their search
goals, the job search polls in an open meeting like this. So that includes creating the job description,
deadlines for applications, requirements for applicants, selection procedures, and the timeframe
for appointing the position. So we're, of course, several steps down that process. And I appreciate- I saw the excellent job description that you all thoughtfully put together.

So that all has to, of course, continue to happen in an open session meeting like this. So as you are
nailing down these procedures, moving forward with interviews and stakeholder inputs, I would
encourage you to continue to make sure that we have a record of what that law is and that that's
adopted in an open meeting. Of course, once the top three finalists are identified and selected,
though, that list does need to be made available to the public. And the Open Meetings Law also
requires that once that list is made public, you have to wait 14 days before any offer can be made.
So that's just important.
And I know that staff has already kind of built that in and factored that into the timelines, but it's
just a reminder that you have that extra step in there once the list is publicly posted. So as you
develop the and continue to develop the details around the procedures for the review and the
interviews and stakeholder input, I would just encourage you to make sure that those are really
clearly identified, and you just follow them through the whole procedure so that we can kind of
continue with that uniform process.
Well, as needs arise, we might have another reason why we might need executive session. You do
have some flexibility in order to preserve the confidentiality of the applicant pool, as Gregg was
saying. You know, we're balancing the need for public-- this process to be publicly accessible, but
we also, of course, want to protect the privacy of our applicant pool, at least up until they are
finalists.
So there may be times when you're going to engage in executive session, and that can be for legal
advice under the Open Meetings Law. It can be to discuss matters of negotiation and strategy, and
it can also be for discussing personnel matters. So when you all end up going through and
reviewing the applications and discussing those, those discussions can occur in executive session
for those specific conferences.
Any questions on open meetings?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin. I don't have any questions on that, but we did have another
person join us by phone, last four digits 1214. Would you mind identifying yourself, please?
GREGG MOSER: Unfortunately, that was Troy calling back in. I lost the call. Sorry about that.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, not unfortunately at all. Welcome. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, I'll move on to open records. So our Colorado Open Records Act does
treat most of the records that are going to be-- or many of the records that are involved in this
executive search as public records. There are some really specific exceptions, and those actually
require RTD to deny inspection for any records that are submitted in connection with an
application for anyone who's not a finalist, so really, all of the records for anyone who's applied,
if they don't end up being a finalist, those all have to be protected and preserved and not disclosed
at all.
Also, records of the search committee, so the records that you're going to be generating and
preparing, as you move through the process, those are also protected under the Records Act. And

then personnel files-- to the extent that we have or may have any internal applicants, we will still
continue to protect their personnel file. So everything prior to their application, that's all protected.
If they end up being a finalist, then, certainly, information about the finalists is going to be
disclosed. So that's just one thing to flag in the event that we have internal applicants.
So once the finalists are identified, not all information is going to have to be disclosed. There are
some specific exceptions. Most of them don't necessarily apply here. We're not doing any medical
or psychological evaluations, as far as I know, as part of his search, but that is an exception under
the Open Meeting-- or the Open Records Law. There also is an exception for letters of reference.
Those are supposed to remain confidential, even for the finalists.
So that's just a general reminder about the Open Records Laws. Does anyone have questions about
that?
OK, moving along, I know you all signed confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements. I just put
that out there as a reminder that you've all agreed that you're not going to divulge any information
to members of the public or the media as we move through this process. I know there's going to be
a lot of interest, and so, of course, information that you receive, just please keep it confidential.
And as we move forward and we've identified or you all have identified the finalists, we can talk.
if you have any specific questions about what you can say at different stages of the process, just
feel free to reach out and ask questions.
So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Kathryne to give a high level overview about the civil
rights laws.
KATHRYNE GROVE: Great. Thank you. So Gregg touched upon it briefly, referencing the FTA,
but I just wanted to share some additional context with you all today. And that is that the EEO
office works very closely with human resources in its recruitment practices from start to finish
based on a number of responsibilities that are actually ascribed to the EEO officer by the FTA, and
particularly relevant for today's meeting, the EEO officer is responsible for what is referred to as
concurrence or auditing of the hiring and promotion process. And this includes tasks like reviewing
employment practices, practice policies that impact hiring and promotion, as well as review of all
employment documents to ensure that the actions of the agency do not result in any sort of
disparate treatment or disparate impact.
There is also the responsibility of the EEO officer to promote awareness of all of the EEO laws
and regulations with its responsible officials, which is why civil rights and EEO have joined the
meeting today. And so I won't, obviously, go through all of the EEO laws in excruciating detail,
because many of you have either been through searches recently or have certainly done searches
in your experiences and backgrounds. But the key throughout all of this in dealing with EEO laws
is that you're not allowed to make any sort of hiring decisions based on protected status.
And whenever I have a captive audience, I always like to quickly run through that list, because
protected status has changed with various EEO laws and cases throughout our nation. So protected
status is defined as race, color, national origin, age, religion, creed, disability, veteran status,

genetic information, sex or gender, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
expression, and marital status.
And so in this screening and discussion of applicants, interviews, background and reference
checks, any communications about candidates with anyone regardless of the setting or the
communication platform, it's this particular principle that applies. So you can't be having any sort
of discussions about a candidate's protected status at any point throughout the search process.
So I always like to share-- I have this resource that I like to share with hiring managers and
recruiters as it relates to some dos and don'ts examples, because what I find is typically what
happens when individuals are trying to avoid, say, a stilted process or something that feels really
rigid or formal, and they're really just trying to connect with candidates, it's in those moments that
they actually find that sometimes they ask questions that maybe are not the most appropriate
question to ask in the recruitment process.
And so I do have a running list of those examples of the resource, but I thought I might cover a
little bit of those-- couple of those with you all today. So when asking questions about a person's
name, that might seem harmless, and in some instances-MELANIE SNYDER: Hey Kathryne?
KATHRYNE GROVE: --it is necessary-- yes, ma'am?
MELANIE SNYDER: Do you mind if we-- just so we're sort of chronologically going through the
process, if we cover interviews after we do the application review?
KATHRYNE GROVE: That will be fine.
MELANIE SNYDER: Since that's what they're heading into.
KATHRYNE GROVE: I'll cover it there.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, perfect. Thank you.
KATHRYNE GROVE: So I think what it-PEGGY CATLIN: Kathryne, could I also interject? You said you have a list, and we'll do that
later. But I think that list of examples would be helpful for the board to have in advance of any
interview process that will be taking place in early August.
KATHRYNE GROVE: Right, and we'll definitely provide that.
MELANIE SNYDER: And Director Catlin, just so you know, Madam Chair, we will be-- I'm
going to follow up with an email with some of these specifics in it as well as some of these
resources so that the members all have that information.

PEGGY CATLIN: Perfect. Thank you, Melanie.
MELANIE SNYDER: So I understand from Gregg that you all are going to be able to start
accessing the applications in the online platform starting on Sunday. And as you go through that
review process, I would encourage you to pull out and really have right alongside, as you're
reviewing the applications, take a look at the job description that you all put together. It was very- I understand that you worked together to really refine that and update it, so it's really reflecting
your current expectations for this role as well as sort of our current crazy COVID environment
right now.
So please, as you're reviewing those applications, take a look at that. Look and evaluate those
applications against the job qualifications that you have already identified here, so all the different
job duties as well as the preferred qualifications and background that you've identified. So when
you talk about ideal candidate having certain background and certain experience, really go through
and just make sure that as you're evaluating the applications, you're doing that based on the job
description criteria that you've already developed. Does that make sense?
I think sometimes people forget, you know, you came up with that job description a little while
ago, and as you're looking at applications, I think sometimes you kind of forget, and it's helpful to
just really go back to that, and that really should be what's driving all of your decisions as you're
identifying those that you want to move forward with to interview. So take a look at the job
description, and then also all the preferred qualifications that you've identified.
OK, go ahead, Kathryne, on the interview process.
KATHRYNE GROVE: Great. So that was actually going to be my first comment, so just to
piggyback off of what Melanie is sharing is that revisiting the job description is crucial. The key
in all the questions that you're asking of candidates should always-- so questions, criteria,
evaluation, all of that should always be tied back to the ability to perform the job as spelled out in
the published job description. And then, of course, it's the-- you all's responsibility to be
interviewing and evaluating candidates in an equitable and fair manner.
And so just going back to some examples of questions that, again, are an attempt to connect with
a candidate and may unintentionally land in an area where, again, while you're trying to connect,
you may not have expected it to go there. So let me just go back up here. So asking a question
about a person's name might seem harmless, and there are some instances where it's absolutely
necessary for purposes of a background check or screening or checking education and experience.
So the safe question is always going to be, have you ever used another name? But the example of
the problematic question is, what is your birth name, or what is your maiden name, because that
could all be tied either to gender, race and ethnicity, or national origin. Another example, so
generally speaking, in the state of Colorado, you have to be 14 with some restrictions to work or
18 at a minimum.

Another example is that if you want to be the President of the United States, you have to be 35, so
there are definitely circumstances in which age may be a necessary question for a job. And so the
safe question, again, is, do you meet the age requirements for the job, if there is one?
But the problematic question is, say, for example, you notice a candidate went to the same high
school as you, and you were asking in genuine curiosity, when did you graduate from high school,
because you want to know if there's any sort of overlap of when each of you where there is an
example of, again, just trying to connect with someone, finding some similarities, perhaps, but
could be problematic, because by asking what year they graduated from high school, that could be
then traced back to age. And you can't make any hiring decisions based on protected status, which
is over the age of 40.
If you're trying to get to know someone and maybe asking questions or maybe offering a
compliment to a candidate, it's always going to be problematic to offer compliments that are
personal in nature, especially when you're trying to build a rapport with someone. I give this
example only because it has specifically happened to me, not that any of you would do this in the
interview process.
But I actually did have someone try to pay me a compliment that I have very beautiful hair, that
it's so dark, is it my natural hair color, which in no way is relevant to the job. I do think they were
trying to pay a compliment, but it's just not appropriate. Any sort of compliments of a personal
nature could, again, be tied back to either protected status or race and ethnicity. So those are just
tricky.
A safe remark would be a compliment on a candidate's diligence to, say, completing a project on
time or under budget. There is also, in the United States, a responsibility or the fact that you have
to authorize or verify that you have the authority to work in the United States. So you will regularly
see that question in the application process, and it's permissible to ask that, but it's not permissible
to, say, ask candidates, when did they move to the United States, or where did they learn to speak
English so well, because, again, not relevant for the job.
Another example that I sometimes see come up or like to touch upon is, say, for example, the job
requires a lot of travel. I do know the GM travels a lot based on my experience working with that
individual, and so appropriate question would be, are you able to fulfill the travel requirements?
That's totally fine to ask. But a question like, do you have children, and have you considered the
necessary child care arrangements to satisfy the travel requirements, would not be permissible,
because then, again, the extra information could in some way be tied to protected status.
I also just like to share, when I'm talking to anyone doing a search process, is that consistency
really is key. If you're deviating from a practice or considering information, say, for one candidate,
you want to make sure that you're considering it for another. And then if for some reason you're
not, that there's a legitimate business reason why you're treating, say, one candidate differently
than another. Are there any questions?

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Kathryne, and I look forward to seeing the more comprehensive
list. In the meantime, I show that we've had a couple of other people join this conversation. Can
you identify yourself, please?
SHELLEY COOK: Peggy, I was one. I dropped off and had to dial back in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK. Thank you, Director Cook. Any others? OK, I just have a plus three
number showing on my bar, so I don't know what those specific numbers are.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, Menten is 0184.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I have you. Thank you, Director Menten. OK, well, let's proceed then.
Kathryne, thank you for that. Melanie, did you want to wrap up, then?
MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, so there was just a few other things. So with respect to the interview
process, I understand that Gregg is going to be working with you to put together some questions,
and I would just encourage you to really take a uniform approach that it doesn't have to be really
sterile and stilted, but you do want to make sure that you're giving every applicant the opportunity
to answer the same types of questions.
And so we're certainly happy to help provide questions or guidance on that. But I really would
encourage you, as you move forward, to come up with a very uniform process where everyone has
the opportunity. And even if you include open-ended questions, like, is there anything else you
want to share with us, or are there things that you're-- anything else that we've missed, those kinds
of open-ended questions, if you want to vary from just the rigid everybody's getting asked the same
question, you can do that. But I would just encourage you, as you move forward, to be as uniform
as you can, to give people the same opportunity.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Melanie, Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. I just want to let the committee know that
earlier today, prior to the meeting, I did send out the list of interview questions from the interim
general manager that was decided on going through that process as a committee of the whole.
Gregg did not get any individual questions from any committee members or board members prior
to us sending that, so we are asking for any additions to be sent to Gregg by close of business on
Tuesday, July 21. So you could look for that in that email.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Barbara. I appreciate that. I just wanted to add, Melanie, that we
were pretty careful when we were interviewing the interim GM candidates, that we were consistent
with the basic questions. Where I think some people might get a little bit off that script or that
process is when we have follow-up questions or clarification questions that may not be consistent
among candidates.
So guidance that you could provide on that would also be helpful.

MELANIE SNYDER: Right. I mean I think you do have to allow the process to be a little bit
flexible, because you do want to be able to ask follow-up questions and give a full opportunity for
someone to answer the questions. But I would just caution you, if you're going to a completely
different subject area that's not part of any of the subject matter areas of the question, you've
probably gone a little too far afield.
KATHRYNE GROVE: Melanie, can I ask something as well, please?
MELANIE SNYDER: Of course.
KATHRYNE GROVE: Great. Thank you. So I think another thing, as it relates to follow-up
questions, is that sometimes it feels like a candidate has not, say, answered the question that you've
actually asked. And so if you're giving additional probing questions to try to get at the question
that's being asked, that you're just being mindful that you're giving other candidates that
opportunity by asking those probing follow-up questions when you also feel like they may not
have addressed the question quite like you're asking them to.
MELANIE SNYDER: So Kathryne, did you have anything else to add on sort of the deliberation
and selection of finalists process?
KATHRYNE GROVE: The only thing that I would add is that by having some set criteria, various
scoring methods, similar questions, where you can provide that consistency and continuity, what
you're really going to have is apples to apples comparison as it relates to the data that you're
collecting. And that's really where you're going to create the cleanest and safest recruitment
processes where you can provide that consistency across the data that you're collecting for
candidates.
MELANIE SNYDER: And I know you're likely looking at remote interviews right now, certainly
for the first round of interviews, given COVID. So I just would encourage you, we'll have to kind
of see things as they change over the next couple weeks, but I know there's also discussions about
what the stakeholder process might look like and also final interviews. So as you kind of move
forward, you can just keep in mind, as Kathryne said, giving people an equal opportunity.
And I know it's always wonderful to meet people in person, and it would be wonderful if you all
would to be able to do that, at least for the finalists. But I think we'll just have to kind of take our
cues from-- the advice from our public health officials. I will say, if it does come up, that there is
some flexibility and ability to bring folks in. You just be mindful of the fact that not only some of
the applicants might feel at a disadvantage if they're the only ones that don't physically come in
for an in-person interview, but you might also, amongst yourselves, not necessarily feel
comfortable coming in and doing in-person interviews.
So just continue to have that open dialogue as you move forward and identify what the actual
procedures are going to be. So that's really it. We don't want to take over your meeting, but I do
want to remind you I'll be sending out an email with some of this information. And you're always
welcome to give me a call if you have any questions, and we're here to support you in the process.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Melanie. I just wanted to check. It looks to me, from my screen,
that we've lost a few directors. I just want to check. Director Buzek, are you still on the line?
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry. Yeah, I couldn't get my unmute off. I'm still here, Peggy. Can you hear
me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. Yes, I can.
VINCE BUZEK: Now, you can't see me, because, you know.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I couldn't see you anymore.
VINCE BUZEK: Can you see me now?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I can. There's [INTERPOSING VOICES]. Director Guissinger, I-- are
you still on? Yes, you are. OK, I just wanted to make sure that-LYNN GUISSINGER: I turned my video off.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I should do that as well. But anyway, OK, thank you. I just wanted to do a
quick check, make sure we hadn't lost or added anyone. OK, the next thing on our-- and particularly
as we move into this next topic, which is the salary range discussion, and Gregg, I'm going to tee
that up for you right now.
GREGG MOSER: I appreciate it. You know, I think that what I wanted to do today was to have a
conversation about salary. I don't think we need to define exactly what the salary is going to be.
That was not my goal today. But I think we need to have an open discussion about it, because there
are going to be-- there are candidates that have certain expectations, certain salary requirements,
if you want to call it that.
And if we're not in that range, then there's no sense in referring them over, because what's going
to end up happening is they'll withdraw from the process, and we'll be down to a group of
candidates we want to interview or even candidates that we want to move forward as finalists, and
they don't want to move forward, because we're not going to be able to get different salaries.
So it's helpful for me to know some of that information up front so that I can guide us. I don't think
that there's any candidate-- well, let me say this. I think every candidate is aware of what Dave
Genova made. I think every candidate is aware of and done their research that I've been talking to
on what the contract that was negotiated for Paul Ballard is at interim. And I don't think there's
any expectation from any candidates I'm talking to that we need to be significantly over that or
even over that, for that matter.
But I think that there's been conversations that we've had as a collective body and I've had with
directors from the beginning of this that salary is something of importance and being mindful of
what the salary is and what we're paying the general manager. I know that in light of COVID and
in light of unemployment and what's going on across the nation from the economic standpoint,

that that's important to certain directors that we think about that and consider that and that the
salary of the general manager CEO for the past CEO and the Interim is too high. I've heard those
comments.
I think that before anybody gives input and response, I think something else we need to be mindful
of and that I've talked to candidates about, I've had the similar conversation with other clients, and
this is something important to think about, is a couple different things. One is I think you were all
provided with some information as to what the other top executives within RTD make and what
their earnings are right now. And so if we were to pay below that-- and I've seen this done before.
I've seen cases of this.
What does that do from an internal structure standpoint? And what does that do from a recruiting
standpoint? In a traditional organization, the CEO would be the most highly compensated person.
You would have some buffer between the CEO and the next highest compensated person, and that
allows, if someone leaves, you can make recruiting decisions, just like you would do if you had a
manager and a supervisor or superintendent down below them. There usually would be some
disparity or just difference between the salaries naturally by the level of the position.
Again, that's not always the case, but that's a natural structure. I think the other thing we should be
thinking about and mindful of is what sort of message might it send to the market, to your
stakeholders, to the community, to the candidate, and to your employees if the next CEO comes in
making, whoever that person is, making less than what you paid the last CEO or what you paid to
the interim.
And I think that that issue becomes even more visceral or creates more discussion-- and I'm trying
to choose my words carefully-- if that candidate happens to be a female or a candidate of a minority
candidate. And so what kind of message does that send to the marketplace if a male executive was
being paid more than the next person?
Does that does that send a message that that person is not as highly valued from a financial
standpoint? Does it send the message that they're not as experienced or that maybe they're not
going to deliver as much leadership? Or I think that those are the types of conversations we're
seeing played out.
And we've seen that in our national press. And we've seen that with things like US women's soccer
or men's soccer, so these are the things I thought were important for us to at least start to have a
conversation about openly and honestly before we start to see any candidates and things like that,
because, again, I want to make sure this is a good process, and I don't want to get to a place where
we lose candidates, because a candidate has an expectation, and we can't meet that expectation.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Gregg. And I'm probably going to go through the list of committee
members. I just wanted to remind folks that Dave Genova's compensation package was a total
compensation package, and it was different than Paul Ballard's compensation package. And so it's
not an apples to apples comparison, and we just need to be mindful of that and make sure that we
make that distinction.

So I'm going to go through the board members to hear some of your thoughts. And I'm going to
start with Shelley Cook. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yep, I'm muted. Thank you, Peggy. I'm glad you brought up the fact that the
total comp was the number we kept to. The base salary for Dave was quite a bit lower. It was
$305,000, but then, of course, the benefits mix was different. So I think about the signal we send
also. If it's-- I mean this is really a difficult topic that is [AUDIO OUT].
--a committee that's looking in part at our finances, as there's a lot of scrutiny. So I think we need
to keep that in mind as well. So those are my comments right now. Thank you, Peggy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. I'll move to Lynn Guissinger, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear all of those concerns, the ones that Gregg has raised and the ones
that Shelley has raised. And I guess I'm not quite sure how much salary we want to talk in an open
meeting. Are you comfortable that this is appropriate, Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, there wasn't-- I mean you all could do a motion to go into executive
session, if you feel like that's what you need to do to discuss personnel matters. It's up to you. It's
sort of the level of detail that you want to go into, but you certainly have that option.
PEGGY CATLIN: At this point, let's talk about general concepts, and then if we do want to delve
a little bit further into that, I put in a motion to go into executive session. But I'd just kind of like
to get some general ideas at first.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'd like to remind everyone that our meeting next week will be an
executive session, so if we have a high level of conversation now, we can discuss that in executive
session and add the CRS language as appropriate at that time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Barbara. So I would encourage, Directors, just to keep this kind of
at a high level, being mindful of some of the issues that Gregg brought up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess, in that regard, I would just say what I said, that I hear Gregg's
concerns. I think those are very valid. I also hear Shelley Cook's concern, but I guess I'm kind of
in the ballpark of where we are. But that's all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm going to check in again. Is Director Lewis? OK, no.
JOHN MCKAY: Here. Chair Catlin, this is John McKay. There's a 734 number on the line. I was
just hoping we could get that person's name for the record, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can you identify yourself, please?
JOHN MCKAY: Might be Nate Minor.

PEGGY CATLIN: Nate, is that you? OK, I guess somebody wishes to remain anonymous. I would
like to ask Director Walker, your thoughts?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah, there's a lot to consider. It's kind of bad timing from for whomever
gets tired at this time, because the job's not changing. Actually, the job might even be more difficult
than it was last year. But the revenue is down. So I guess we look at the total compensation, what
that person would be making, including benefits.
We've had situations where a GM had retired from another industry, so that GM didn't require any
benefits package or at least the pension package that we offer. So there was some cost savings
there. There's also-- you can also look at termination clauses, so what that person might be able to
take a cut off at the beginning to make it-- and make it more difficult to fire him or her or vice
versa. Pay me up front, and then make it really easy for me to go away, if it comes to that.
So there are a whole lot of ways to consider, but it does need to be considered and definitely, in
these times, what we pay one person and for how long. The length of that contract will influence
the public perception, just like-- I can't remember which public board it was that gave themselves
raises soon after the pandemic hit. But it didn't sit well in the headlines. But
Yeah, Mr. Moser is right. There's a whole lot to consider here, and I'm sure we'll chew on this at
our next meeting, our executive session. But a lot of it, I think, it's going to come down to that
individual, what that individual wants in their situation. If they're retired from another industry,
they might be willing to take on the salary and forgo the benefits. [INTERPOSING VOICES].
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Thank you, Director Walker. I'm going to get to the other
committee member, Director Menten, and then I will go and ask Directors Tisdale, Whitmore, and- Buzek, Tisdale, and Whitmore their comments. So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, don't forget me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, of course not. When would you like to go? Right now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It doesn't-- I can go right now. I'd like to go right now.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's OK. You know, I think that I'm glad we're having this
discussion, and I'm glad that it's a high level discussion, because I haven't really put a lot of thought
into this, but I think, for me, the difference between an interim general manager and a permanent
general manager-- and they're really very different in terms on how we execute the contract,
because it will include more in terms of benefits and stuff. And so I really do take to heart what
Gregg Moser has been talking about in terms of the diversity of candidates that might be coming
forward.
There may be some people who aren't just retired, but maybe come from the corporate world and
not the transit world and the transit world and not the corporate world. So I do think that this is

going to be something that's going to be a difficult decision for this board. And I absolutely agree
with Second Vice Chair Cook that we need to keep in mind also sustainability of our accountability
committee that is being formed as we speak, doing a deep dive into RTD.
So I think I'm looking forward to a robust discussion, and I'm looking forward to hear what
everybody's thoughts are on this. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Menten, and then Director Buzek. Well, actually, Director
Menten, would you mind if we asked Director Buzek for some comments? Because he has to get
off right at 2:30.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair, and I'll be right back on. I shouldn't be very long on my
conference. So anyway, yeah, I understand issues related to pay. But here's what I think. You
cannot pay the new general manager less than you pay a senior staff member. So general manager,
highest level, right? Whoever is next down on the scale, the general manager has to make more
than that.
I can tell you, because if you claim we can't do it because of the budget and the pandemic and all
that, the response would be, then why don't you lower this other senior staff member's salaries to
compensate for that as well? So we can't pay less-- we have to be able to pay a little less than what
we paid other general managers or interim general managers, but I think that person needs to be
the highest paid member of staff. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. And then that-- when we get into the details,
something like that might result in a threshold or incremental percentage above. OK, Director
Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I'll start with-- I'm extremely frustrated and disappointed
with the position that we are in now because of the salary level that the majority of the board voted
for in the interim position. And I can tell you that there is the public perception, which was not
great, but this was also an internal frustration. And I don't know how many of you were pulled
aside by employees of RTD, who were told in a side conversation, thank you for not standing quiet
or just stamping that decision on that salary level.
I would say-- I'm going to guess that most of you didn't have that conversation, because as far as I
know, majority of you, a majority on this call voted in favor of the salary. But I can tell you that
that is what staff told me, that they were extremely upset when that came out.
Granted, with nearly 3,000 employees, I didn't hear from a majority of them, but some of them
passed on and said, you know, I've talked to this division or this crew, and I'm just relaying what
the word is on the street. And so I'm very frustrated with where we are sitting now, especially with

Mr. Moser's words that if we were to reduce it, let's say, below the 295 or the 305, and we have
somebody who is not a white male, that may be perceived as somehow discrimination.
But going back to the root of our problem, even pre-COVID, our salaries are not in line with what
I consider a very local cost of living, all of these things very similar, and that's CDOT, linking with
what the executive director of CDOT makes, what the SLT, similar titles, makes at CDOT. And
that is why I testified in favor of Jack Tate's bill with doing a compensation analysis.
And I don't think it should be off the table that we reduce the SLT's salaries, because the furlough
didn't do that. And if that's what holds us back to setting a GM salary that's above those SLT,
perhaps we should be looking at that action in favor of the taxpayers.
So just very, very, very frustrated with this conversation because of the position we were put in
due to a vote in January of 2020. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. Now I'd like to go to Director Tisdale and
Director Whitmore. Director Tisdale? Director Tisdale, you need to unmute your computer.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Excuse me. I've had difficulties with the computer all
day today, so it has caused some problems. I don't have any special comments right now. I
appreciate, number one, the refresher on all of the things that we may and may not discuss, may
and may not consider.
As to the specific question presented regarding salaries, I will provide some support to Director
Menten in terms of the public perception. And I think that's something about which we must be
extremely aware at these times. And it's probably a dialogue that we could have with candidates
to inform them that whatever the initial salary is, there could be some pressure to adjust across the
boards, and that might have an impact. That would be my observation, and I thank you for the
opportunity to speak.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Last but not least, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I'm in agreement with Director Buzek's
view of the situation that could be very clumsy. Our CEO should be the most highly compensated
person on staff, in my opinion. I think the range that we have established between Genova and
Ballard is probably going to be needed to recruit somebody of the type of caliber we need at
minimum, looking at the private sector and other places. The challenges are going to be
monumental, and the cost of living in Denver metro is quite high, maybe not compared to some
metroplexes, but to many.
And I'm thoroughly committed to Mr. Moser's comments about a situation that could happen that
would be very inappropriate. So I want to follow that as well. Thank you for the information, the
other information. It's been helpful, and I appreciate the time. Thank you. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Whitmore. I'm going to say that I also appreciate what
Mr. Moser pointed out about perception moving forward with any candidate and the value that we

place on that candidate. And having been in similar situations in my past, I can very much
appreciate that, and I guess it would be very incumbent for us to be very careful in our
communications with whatever we bring forward. So I'll get off my soapbox.
I don't know if Kathryne or Zami would have anything to add in terms of those discussions at a
high level.
ZAMI SILVA: I do. I would like-- thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to add just a couple of
things. I think that-- and we review salary and compensation all the time. And one of the things
that we look for, obviously, is internal equity and other things. However, I think that right now,
obviously, we are in the process of doing a compensation study. And so that is going to reveal a
lot of different things.
We are also in a very different time and circumstances surrounding that, so we cannot look at
things the same way. In other words, I think that, throughout the nation, all transit agencies-- I
mean everyone is impacted by the pandemic. And so when we are looking at-- as you move
forward, my advice is to consider all factors and make the decisions based on everything that's
going on, because the previous general manager's circumstances and the timing were very
different. Then you have an interim in the interim, and then you're going to make a decision about
a permanent general manager under the circumstances that we're going through now.
And part of it is that RTD is under really dire financial circumstances, and so making the decision
before moving forward-- in other words there should be an expectation from the participants or
from the candidates of what is that range going to look like, and what is that based on. And so
when you guys are making a determination about, OK, so the range is from here to here, you need
to consider all of the factors.
And I would assume that by then, we probably will have an understanding of what our
compensation look like in comparison to other organization, and as well as internally, what does
that look like? I do agree that having the general manager making less than other folks, that could
potentially be an issue. I think that they carry the risk. They carry the burden of the agency,
definitely should be compensated accordingly. So a lot of thoughts, a lot of things to consider here.
But that would be my two cents to it. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Zami. Melanie, would you have anything to add or-MELANIE SNYDER: No. Not right now. I think there's definitely going to be an opportunity as
we get a little bit further down the road to have these conversations before.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I believe that circumstances are certainly relevant to this discussion. And
Zami's correct. It's not business as it was two years ago or a year ago. So it looks like we have
somebody that-- some-PAUL BALLARD: Paul Ballard raised his hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, it doesn't show up on the hand. It shows up in the person. OK, Mr. Ballard.

PAUL BALLARD: Oh, OK. Yeah, I just want to add a brief comment on Zami's presentation. She
made reference to a compensation study, and it's not currently being conducted. We had discussed
it at a board meeting I think last month, and we said that we were going to do a sole source
selection. I have instructed that we're not going to do a sole source selection. We're doing an RFP,
and we'll be receiving proposals from whoever does that sort of work.
I think it's important that we not only don't have any conflicts, which that would not have been,
but I want to make sure that there's no appearance of conflict. So we'll be accepting proposals from
any companies that do that work. And I just wanted to add that note, and I think it's important that
you all understand that. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. And actually, I'm personally pleased to hear that,
because oftentimes, I think that these surveys are self-serving. Just a comment. And first of all, I
know Director Guissinger is waving her hand, but Director Walker has been placed in the queue.
So if Director Walker can go first, and then Director Guissinger.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, thanks. So just like we're being creative with our operation, we're looking
at that. We can also be creative with the negotiations with the members selected. You know, we
don't have to have yearly-- the compensation doesn't have to be paid out-- total compensation
doesn't have to be paid out on a [AUDIO OUT] basis. It can be a big bonus at the end of two years
if certain metrics are hit. That's how it works in a couple of places where I've worked.
So there are other things we can do. I know how it looks on paper, but ultimately, this is
negotiation. We do have that flexibility or whoever will be negotiating with the finalist, and the
finalists also have that flexibility to come up with something more creative that is more appealing
to that public perception. So that's another-PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a question. I also appreciate, Paul, that you've taken that to an RFP,
but I'm just curious what the timing will be on some of that.
PAUL BALLARD: It obviously will- it obviously will take longer, but I think it's more important
to get accurate and trusted data than to try to rush that. Given the financial situation that we are in
and will be for a little bit, I don't think it's critical that we get that data quickly. With regards to the
CEO general manager search between Gregg and other sources, I think we'll be able to have very,
very good data for what this job pays throughout the transit industry. And I think that-- I think
that's going to be more relevant to us.
So we have the data on what we're currently being paid. I don't anticipate that that's going to change
in the near future. So I think that data will be pretty stable for while we're making this decision.
So I hope that answers your question. It's a roundabout answer, I guess.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, it's fine. I'm glad you took it the direction you're taking it, and that's
fine. Thanks.

PAUL BALLARD: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker, your hand is still raised. OK, just double checking. All right,
with that, I know, Gregg, you have some real definition here, don't you? But we will be discussing
this next a little bit more in executive session next week.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I think it's great. And again, I just wanted to raise some thoughts so we
could all be thinking about this. And I think it is important. Certain candidates, this is going to be
something we have to discuss a little bit more, and certain candidates, it's not going to be as
important to. And I think to Director Walker's point, there are different ways to structure
compensation that can get us to where we maybe need to be.
And so I think that we're going to have a lot of opportunity to discuss this further, but I thought it
was important we just at least raise the conversation so we could be thinking about this as we go
forward as part of the process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Gregg, and I think that has been the elephant in the room for a
while. So at least we got people thinking about it. The next item on the agenda is public outreach
plan, and following that is candidate update. I might take a little bit of chair's privilege here and
reverse that. Would you mind giving us an update on the candidates that-- the number, the quality,
where you see that going at this point?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, so I am working through narrowing it down to the exact amount of
candidates. I would say-- and I'm going to have an exact number for you when I make the referral
of the candidates on Sunday, so I'm going to say, this is the exact amount of people who applied,
and this is how many I'm moving forward and some of those things.
So what I'm doing, basically, right now is I'm looking at a number of different factors. I'm going
back to the job description, which we prepared, and looking at different areas of importance. I'm
taking consideration into account of what your stakeholders have told me that they find important
for what they're looking for.
I will say that there is nothing new or earth-shattering. Most of it's reflected in our job description
as to what we're looking for, so I'm just using that as additional context as to what everybody-being as inclusive as possible as to what everybody is looking for in the next CEO, what they're
looking for at RTD.
There are a number of cabinet candidates that I don't believe meet the minimum qualifications for
the job description, so I'm vetting those out. I'm also doing preliminary diligence, so there are
certain candidates that I've done some Google searches on or I've done some preliminary
references on, or where I'm familiar with within the transit industry or, for that matter, outside of
the transit industry.
And based on certain factors that I think are-- that would be concerning to you for whatever the
reason might be. It might be simply leadership style. It might be critical skills that you're looking
for right now that candidates may or may not possess. I'm helping to filter out some of those

candidates. So I believe we're going to have a number somewhere in the range of plus or minus 15
candidates that I refer over to you. It might be 16. It might be 14. But that's what I'm working
through right now that you're going to have a chance to look at.
I think we have an incredibly diverse group of candidates, both in terms of race and gender and
ethnicity and professional experiences. So I think that I'm really excited about that, actually,
because I think one of the things in transit that I sometimes find is that we don't have as much
diversity as we would like to have, because the industry just as a whole hasn't taken that into
account over the last 20 or 30 years. And it takes 20 or 30 years to see that next generation of talent
rise to the top.
And so I think we're starting to see that more and more, and I'm hopeful that we'll continue to see
that. And I think one of the things that you should be really proud of is the fact that-- and excited
about is that we're open to this process to look for people outside of just transit. So I think you're
going to see candidates that have transit experience, and I think you're going to see candidates that
don't have transit experience, whether they're local or national.
And so I think that that's helped to really shape and round out the pool of candidates that you're
going to see. I think it's going to be a tough choice. I think at the end of the day, you're going to
have some really good candidates to consider. And I think that you're going to have some tough
choices to make as to how you get there. But I think that what it's going to also do is open up a
really healthy conversation as to what we're truly looking for in the next CEO.
And I think that that's one of the most important value added parts of this process is when you start
to see candidates, to have an open conversation about what we see as strengths and weaknesses
and advantages and disadvantages. And again, I always say, if our list-- we're looking for a
checklist of 15 items, if somebody has 11, 12, or even 13 of those, then we're in really good shape.
And the question is, what are the 11 or 12 or 13 that ultimately are the best for RTD right now at
this moment in time? And then what do we do to support this person in those areas that are the two
or three or four that they may not be as strong in to ensure that RTD moves forward successfully?
So I'm excited. You're going to get the packages on Sunday afternoon, and then we're going to
have a meeting on Wednesday morning to go through those and discuss further. And I'm really
excited for that conversation, because I think it's going to be a really productive one.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Gregg. And I know that you have narrowed this down from a
broader pool of candidates, many of whom you do not believe met the level of criteria that we had
set forth in our job description. And quite frankly, my opinion is that's what we hired you to do.
So I appreciate that in using your judgment and also taking into account our stakeholder input. So
thank you for that.
GREGG MOSER: You're welcome.

PEGGY CATLIN: Does anyone have any questions regarding the candidate update? You can
either raise your hand or wave at me. Looks like there's one person, but it's not identified. Jeff?
OK, there you are. It popped up. All right, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Mr. Moser, I didn't hear or maybe you didn't say how many total
applications you received.
GREGG MOSER: I knew you were going to ask me that specific number. I want to say it's-- I
don't have the exact number in front of me. I want to say it's more than 30, though. It's probably
somewhere closer to 40 to 50, but if you're OK with this, I will give you that exact number so you
have that information, and you can share that with the rest of the board and everything on Sunday
when I send the resumes.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, sure. I didn't know if I missed it or if you didn't say it. A couple folks did
call me before they applied. I made clear that I wouldn't talk to them if they applied over-- if they
had already applied. But I was really happy with the people who did call me just to ask about it.
Yes, so I was I was happy with the kind of candidate that you were reaching out to. That's all.
Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker. And that's a good reminder to all of us that the
application process is closed. And so if any of you get-- for any other board members to get calls
from candidates, please remind them or just please let them know that you're not able to talk to
them at that point. Thank you.
GREGG MOSER: You're welcome to direct any calls to me, or let me know that a candidate
reached out, and I'm happy to-- you don't even have to respond back. I'm happy to make an
outreach to them and just let them know that that's our process and that all direct communications
should come through me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That's a good reminder. Appreciate that. Any other comments?
OK, seeing none. Let's go to the public outreach update. Gregg.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, so I have reached out to everybody that you asked me to reach out to as
part of the stakeholder outreach. There was a group of 12 people, you may remember that we asked
that I make individual calls to, specifically reaching out to them individually. I also reached out to
the rest of the list via email, and many people took me up on that. I'd say over 50% of the people
that I reached out to.
And I want to say it's somewhere in the range of 35 stakeholders, different stakeholders I reached
out to took me up on that opportunity. In fact, one of the stakeholders actually asked for their
whole team to be involved in a conversation, which I was more than happy to have, because to me,
the more input I have and the more feedback I have, just the better perspective I have on what's
going on in your community.
And I shared some of the feedback I got the last time. Yesterday afternoon, Roger Sherman had
set up a meeting with me and the Citizen Advisory Committee, if I'm saying that correctly, and

had a very productive conversation with them as well and got additional input from them. And I
will just say that the stakeholders I've talked to and the advisory committee are all very interested
in this process and would like to have a role in the process and participate in the process.
And I assured them that we were working through a part of our process once we get to the finalist
candidates, where we will have stakeholder engagement and that we are doing everything that we
possibly can to balance the level of transparency that we can offer along with the level of
engagement that we can offer with also ensuring that we're doing this in a safe and healthy manner
for everybody involved.
So we are taking-- I've asked for input as to ideas from them as to what they think could be a good
way to do this. I've shared some of the discussions we're having as to what public involvement
might look like, and I thought, perhaps, today we could also touch on that a little bit and talk about
a couple of ideas. I had one additional idea that I came up with over the last week or so that I
thought I could share as well for some public input.
But before I do that and share that, does anybody have any questions about the outreach I've done
and the conversations I had with the advisory committee yesterday?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would just like to say, Gregg, thank you. I was on that call and
listened to what the CAC had to say, and I thought it was a really, really good interaction. And I
thought they had amazing points and questions for you, and I just want to thank you, because I
thought you did an amazing job with it. It gave me some further insight, not surprising of what
they were saying to me, because I had been hearing those concerns about transparency and
communication and what they want to see in a leader.
So I just wanted to say thank you for actually going out into the community and talking to our key
stakeholders and letting their voices be heard. So that's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Now I see that Zami Silva has her hand
raised.
ZAMI SILVA: I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a quick question, and maybe we can support
or assist, so within the Civil Rights Division, there is a number of committees that we also are
responsible for and work with. We have a couple of ADA committees that represent people with
disabilities as well as the small business community. And so they're very vocal and, in the past,
have been very engaged as it pertains to hiring general managers.
So whatever support or assistance or coordination that you need, let me know, because with the
small business, it's all of the chambers-- Asian chamber, black chamber, you know, all of the
chambers. Usually, we meet with them every other month, but we can coordinate a meeting just
for this if that's needed. I just wanted to throw that on the table as well.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Zami. And I know those chambers were all on the list that we had
given Gregg, and so he's had an exhaustive list. But if he was unsuccessful in facilitating some of
that, then maybe he can reach out to you for additional assistance.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, Zami, maybe we can follow up offline and just make sure that I covered
it. And if not, I'm happy to do that outreach now, and we'll certainly ensure that they're included
as part of the process as we move forward.
ZAMI SILVA: Sounds great. Thank you.
GREGG MOSER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I know that Gregg was very persistent and tenacious in trying to
touch base with some of our key stakeholders and was not always successful in getting them on
the line. But it wasn't for lack of trying. So I appreciate that. And maybe we can have a more
detailed update on that at some future point.
But I wanted to say, it's ongoing, because as we move through this process, there are still many
opportunities to get input. Any other directors on the stakeholder process or public outreach plan?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh. First of all, Gregg, I wanted to say how much I've appreciated the out of
the box work you've done, both in reaching out to stakeholders, but also in recruiting. I've just been
hearing anecdotally, but I'm just really appreciative of that. And the second thing is something that
Angie had brought up.
I don't know if we're still looking at-- I think were looking at earlier in the fall, aren't we, for our
actual decision making, then November, our deadline? Is that true, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, that is true. And that's reflected in your schedule that was put forth.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I was wondering about the candidates, and it becomes more of an issue,
I think, the closer we get to November. But the question is whether-- and we don't even have
certified candidates yet, but since there will be a considerable turnover in the board, Angie Rivera,
Chair Rivera-Malpiede had thought of this earlier, much earlier when we were considering the
decision making and timing and stuff.
Is it at some point worth thinking about reaching out to the people who are actually certified as
candidates to get their thoughts as well in some way? I don't know exactly how that would take
place, but just a question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, do you have a response to that?

GREGG MOSER: I think that that's really up to you. I would think that maybe that's part of the
process when we're down to the finalists, when we've named the finalists publicly. They're a
stakeholder in the community, just like anyone else. So I think that the input they provide is,
whether they're a certified candidate or just an active member of your community and interested,
I think it's certainly valuable information, because they're another stakeholder group.
But I'm certainly open to your thoughts as well as directors'.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Cook, do you have any more thoughts on that?
SHELLEY COOK: No. Thank you, though. Thanks. I'll [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: I know Gregg and I have talked a little bit in moving forward, some of-- and
we can incorporate it now-- some of the ideas you had for tools that we can use for public outreach.
Do you want to go ahead and discuss some of those ideas right now, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, so I want to be clear that nothing's been decided yet in terms of what the
outreach is going to be, but several ideas have been floated. One of those was doing a Facebook
Live type forum, where candidates could speak to the Facebook Live account, and stakeholders
could tune into that and see those. That's one option.
Another option is we could do something like this, a Teams meeting or a Zoom meeting. The
downside to something like that is that you lose a little bit of control as to who participates, and
I've seen situations-- we talked about this before-- where there are people that join the meeting that
don't have really a true interest in what the meeting is about. They just want to cause disruption.
And we obviously want to try to avoid that, because that's not the goal of what the meeting is all
about. So I think that's something we can think about.
We've talked about the idea of having a select group of stakeholders have a chance to meet with
the candidates. I use the term "meet" liberally, obviously, because of COVID. So we have to define
what that is. We talked about the idea of asking certain interview questions, consistent interview
questions, same for the finalist candidates, asking them a series of three or four questions, and
having them respond to those questions. Again, whether we do that through Facebook Live or
something and we take questions from an audience, either pre that meeting or during that meeting,
and ask those candidates those questions.
We've talked about the idea of having those questions come from the board based on feedback
we've gotten from the stakeholders and structuring certain questions like that that we ask those
candidates to respond to. And we talked about the possibility of even recording the candidates
answering those questions, and we offer the candidates three or four minutes of time per question
that we ask them, and then we make those available on RTD's website for any stakeholder who
wants to view them within a defined period of time to view them. And then we offer a survey tool
to go out to those stakeholders to be able to respond to the answers that those candidates provide.
So that's another option as well.

I think the nice thing about that-- or I suppose Facebook Live or something like that, too, can be
recorded, and if a stakeholder can't be available to attend something at a specific period of time,
they can tune into it at another period of time to be able to watch that and respond to it. So if
someone's working during normal business hours or they don't have access to a computer, they
can tune into that at another period of time.
I think that the other-- we also discussed the possibility of utilizing a news channel outlet that's
local news that might be able to provide those as something that can be available for people to tune
in and listen to as well. The other idea I had that I was thinking about over the last week was-- and
this worked well in another CEO search that I'm just wrapping up as we speak right now.
We had the candidates do a PowerPoint presentation, the finalist candidates do a PowerPoint
presentation to the board. And it was a 15-minute presentation, and it was on their one-year, threeyear, and five-year vision for the agency. And we provided each of the candidates with certain
documentation. It was public information that was resources that they could have access to, and,
of course, they could do their own research on the organization as well.
And the goal of the presentation wasn't, did they hit the mark on exactly what you're looking for
RTD to do in one, three, and five years, because I think a lot changes over five years in time. But
it was more, what is their thought process? How do they structure a presentation? How do they
communicate their thought processes to a large audience? And what is their vision? What sorts of
things do they think is important?
And we can even point out certain areas. We could point out customer service. We could point out
hiring and retention, operations, maintenance, funding and finance, stakeholder engagement. We
could define the areas we want them to touch upon in those broader categories, and we can not
exclude it to just those areas.
But these are the areas we want you to touch on, and feel free to go into other areas as well. So I
think that's something we could ask each of the finalist candidates to do for you, to make that
presentation, and we could record those presentations and make those available to the general
public as well for feedback. And that was something I was thinking about that that might be nice
for your stakeholders to be able to have an opportunity to review.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oops. I apologize. I'm going to ask directors what their thoughts are on this
kind of matrix or smorgasbord of ideas. So I'll go through. First, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Gregg, I think it's a great list and ideas
that you have. I would add YouTube on that, because a lot of people now have the YouTube app,
and they have it both available on their phones as well as at home. And the other thing I-- for a
while, I was always concerned about communities of diversity, Latino communities, and
communities who were struggling. But pretty much everybody has smartphones now, so that's a
pretty easy access for them to be able to get to, and it's a free app.
The other thing I was thinking is I really do like the idea of the prerecorded something, and then
pitching it to all the channel 8's as well as, like, the radio stations that have community things on

Sundays and stuff. So I think you're really, really on the right track, and I really, really do
appreciate it. That's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. And Gregg had a response to
that.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, thank you. I also wanted to mention that I think this is something that we
don't have to decide exactly what we're going to do today, but this is one of those items that I think
we should start to think about over the next couple of weeks and try to solidify, because I think we
want to notify our stakeholders, so they can be prepared for what's coming out.
And I also think that, as I mentioned at the very beginning of our call, at the end of the day, you're
only going to hire one person. And if our finalist group is three candidates, two of them are not
going to get the job. And so their names are going to be made available to the public sometime
around-- I think our first round of interviews concludes around August 6th.
And so sometime shortly thereafter, that evening or the next day, my guess is we're going to be
making an announcement. And our next round of interviews, I believe if we stay on schedule, is
around the 19th and 20th. And so already in that period of time, if we don't start the stakeholder
engagement until the 19th or 20th, one, you won't be able to get the feedback until some point after
that. And two, candidates' names will already be sitting out there for two weeks.
And so in an ideal, perfect world, we'd ideally like to start the stakeholder engagement as quickly
as we possibly can after the 5th and 6th, so you can start to get that feedback, so they have time to
be able to review whatever we decide to do and make that available. And so you're in a position,
as a whole board, to be able to have all of the information and all the tools in your toolbox, so to
speak, to be able to make an informed decision on who you want to ultimately hire for this position.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Just to add one more thing, when we did the interim general
manager position, what worked really well for us in outreach was doing a Survey Monkey with
the finalist. I would suggest that-- and I know we don't need to make all the decisions today-- but
I would suggest that we do that again but with no comments, just here's the video that you can go
look at. Let us know who you choose, and that would be it. So at least we would have kind of a
feel in the communities what they thought might be a good candidate. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Director Cook, your thoughts?
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry. I had to ring off briefly. Is this about the sort of the mix that Gregg had
described for our next phase? And he added the suggestion of YouTube. If so, I agreed with her
comments. That was good. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't really have anything to add right now. I think that the plan is a real
good start, and I'll keep thinking about it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think Gregg captured our comments from-- I don't know whether it was a
month ago or two months ago, so I don't have any comments about this in addition to that. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I didn't catch the third option. There was a Facebook Live, a Zoom
Teams meeting. There was one after that that I didn't catch.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, you need to unmute.
GREGG MOSER: I thought I did, and then I must've hit the mute button to turn it back on. Sorry
about that. So I think the third option was a presentation by the candidates for a defined period of
time, where we asked them to present their vision for one, three, and five years in certain areas.
We can define what those areas are-- operations, customer service, et cetera.
JEFF WALKER: OK, all right. Thank you. So I like all the options. I think they're all good. I like
the idea of having questions from the board, our more prominent stakeholders, and Jane and Joe
citizen, who don't live in this industry and don't associate with it other than riding or taking the
service.
Maybe they did-- maybe they don't anymore, but they did at one time. And finding out how the
candidates respond to those questions. I also like having a live event, so we can capture them in
that moment. But I also think it's important for folks to be able to go back and review, if they can't
be there live.
But any of those work for me. I listen to CPR pretty much exclusively. I think they have some
good interviewers on that station, if we were able to use them, like any other debate that I've seen
that uses media figures.
But that would provide some separation between the board and the candidates, so it wouldn't
looked like any board member is being favorable to maintaining it. We'd have some neutral party
asking questions. But I like all of those, especially as long as the public gets some of the candidates
before we get to make a decision and we get that input. That's it. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I agree with all the comments that have been made. I
liked, also, what Director Walker said about having a live event with the candidates, however we
do that, versus just a recorded presentation of them that's prepared and scripted. And Gregg, I've

got a question for you. I think I understood you to say that we'll have two rounds of interviews,
and in between those two rounds, you want to begin the public outreach. Is that correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, do you want to add anything to that? There you go.
GREGG MOSER: You know, I'm clicking it to unmute it, and it seems to be remuting for some
reason, so maybe my mouse is picking up a second click, so I'm sorry about that. But I think that
would be the ideal situation. If we could start the stakeholder engagement as soon as or as shortly
after we announced those finalists, that would be ideal. Obviously, if a candidate's having to put
together a presentation, a PowerPoint presentation, we need to give them a little bit of time to be
able to do that.
But we can still have a active meeting if we want to do so, where they meet and answer questions,
like Director Walker pointed out, prior to those interviews on the 19th and 20th.
VINCE BUZEK: So yeah, the point I wanted to make is-- I don't know the answer to this, and
maybe you would-- does that-- would that give any of the finalist candidates an unfair advantage
or disadvantage moving into the second round of interviews, because now they can base reaction
from public and things like that on what they might say? I don't know. Maybe I'm totally off base,
but just a thought.
GREGG MOSER: I think it's a valid thought. I mean they may not see the feedback from the public
yet if we have the feedback controlled that they're sending the information back directly to RTD.
But they will certainly be able to see how the other candidate responded, because if it's an open
public forum, there's nothing to prevent them from being able to tune in and watch it as well.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks. And I guess just a general comment. Obviously, more is better, I
think, when it comes to public input, even though we're the ultimate decision makers on this.
Getting as much public input as we can. I think, to help guide us is important. But thanks for all
the work you've done so far, Gregg. It's been great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. Now I'll ask Directors Whitmore and Tisdale if they have any
additional comments on our public outreach forum. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thanks, Madam Chair. I appreciate everybody's input, and certainly, don't
have anything of any magnitude to add. Really appreciated Director Walker's ideas, and then the
question from Director Buzek, I think, is one that we need to flesh out. But that's it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale had-PEGGY CATLIN: Nope, you're still muted, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There. Director Tisdale had to step off.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I understand. He has an event at Mineral Park and Ride this afternoon.
Great. OK, I just wanted to add that I like the combination of a prepared-- maybe it's a one-year,
three-year, five-year plan that they can prepare. But I also do like to see how candidates think on
their feet and respond to questions. So a combination of a live event that also could be taped for
other public consumption, along with a more formal presentation, I think, is what I see as a good
combination of both.
We have a little bit of discussion about the HOGO process, and I think, to date, Gregg has said
that only three or four directors have completed-- or have test-driven that process. And I would
encourage directors, as you-- I would encourage you-- I'm in that camp to do it, and then also to
speak with your buddies about doing that.
So Gregg, if you'll take your microphone off mute, you can respond. There you go.
GREGG MOSER: There we go. OK, so I was just logging in the system right now to look. As of
today, I think we were up to six or seven directors, so I was just going to look right now and see if
any others had had a chance to go in there and look at it. But I did see a few more checking the
system and whatnot.
I know that the Board Office, John McKay, and Barbara, and some of their team are available to
help if anybody's had trouble getting the document to be able to see it. It is just the position
description right now, so I used the job description that was approved as the document to be able
to test to make sure it was accessible. But I'm counting right now one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven-- it looks like seven directors have not yet opened the HOGO doc.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I'm guilty, but I will do that. So OK, thank you. Anymore on that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Gregg, I just want to make sure that-- did I do it right?
GREGG MOSER: Did you see the position description through HOGO?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
GREGG MOSER: Then you should have done it correctly, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a quick question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I downloaded it to my iPhone and looked at it. And so there's nothing else.
We're not giving you feedback in the system or anything like that. Can we print from this system?
No, OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that was for security reasons, and I see John McKay has his hand up.

JOHN MCKAY: Hi, there are a couple of directors who are-- we have IT tickets in for them right
now. They weren't able to see the doc. We're not really sure why that's happening, so Megan is in
the process of reaching out to those folks right now to see how she can help. But we did have at
least a few more folks today who I know were successful in getting to it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, John. And that kind of speaks to the-TROY WHITMORE: Now Director Catlin, I'm one of those, and Megan's reached out to me. I'm
going to probably have to forgo her assistance until the morning. Downloaded it but didn't get the
document. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. That's a good reminder that we'll probably need to do this prior to Sunday,
so if we can do it by tomorrow, that would be good.
OK, moving on, we talked a little bit about the process moving forward. Let's talk a little bit about
the schedule. Barbara had sent that a document that outlines a schedule. Do you want to speak to
that, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just forwarded it to all directors again, asking them to please make
sure that all of the dates are on the calendar not only for this process, but for Reimagine and a
number of the other committees, committee meetings that we have on the schedule from now until
the end of the year.
So I'm not saying that we won't be adding additional meetings as we need this group to make
decisions moving forward, much like we added this meeting. But we do have everything on the
calendar in the process that we need to fit into what the timing guidelines are according to Colorado
statutes. And Gregg went over most of those dates previously in this call.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Miss McManus. And I would guess if you have any questions about
the schedule, please direct them to Barbara, or probably it would be with Barbara or John. OK,
moving on to other matters, are there any other matters that directors would like to speak to? I
don't see any hands raised, but feel free to jump in.
OK, our next meeting date is next Wednesday, July 22. And in the meantime, I know that Gregg
has set up 10-minute discussions with directors to get a sense for your top six candidates so that
we can be prepared to go into that meeting on the 22nd with a sense of whether or not we're aligned
in our preferences. So I know, Barbara, I think you were successful in setting most of those up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, all of them are out. I sent the email out, and my team followed up
with getting those on the calendar when this call started.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. I appreciate all your hard work on that. OK, well, I believe that that
covers our agenda. I would like to adjourn this meeting at 3:10 PM. And thank you all for the time,
and I know there's a-- oh, Director Buzek. Oh, you're waving goodbye. OK, I just wanted to thank
you all for the time that you've invested in this now and moving forward. Thank you very much.

MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you.
GREGG MOSER: Thank you all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Bye now.

