1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 21, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 7:56 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:54 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:55 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

7:55 PM
8:00 PM
7:52 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:55 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Committee Chair

Present
Remote
Present

7:53 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:52 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:54 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:51 PM

Paul Solano

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:55 PM

7:56 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:55 PM
7:53 PM

Director Lasater participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Rachel Carson, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Kalee Freestone, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Adrian Mabry, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara McManus,
Jeff Miessel, Vivian Morales, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Cherie
Sprague, Errol Stevens, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Claude Vigil, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,
Michael Washington

Others Present:

Michael Barnes, Chris Chang, Jacqueline Curry, Jane Dani, Doug
Gragg, MS N. Hague, Eugene Howard, Anthony Forrester, Tina
Francone, Adrina Gibson, Kent Moorman, Jeanne Shreve, Joe Triplett

B. Recommended Actions

• January 2015 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the January 2015 Service Change package
as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
of approximately $647,200 and, further, to authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Committee Chair Lubow explained to the Board that since this evenings
Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet was published
on Friday, staff has made some changes in the wording of the
Recommended Action. She asked Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations, to read the revised language into the record.
Bruce Abel noted that staff has been in continuous conversations related to
the three Call-n-Rides that were being considered for cancellation. He said
that staff has reached an agreement for each of these Call-n-Rides to
support the continuance of service. He stated that the continuance of the
Call-n-Rides changed the Recommended Action to the following:
“It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the January 2015 Service Change
package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an
annualized cost of approximately $969,000 and, further, to authorized the

General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.”
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item
with the amended changes to the full Board at
the October 28, 2014 Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling, shared that five public hearings were held with
nearly 200 people participating. The majority of the
comments related to service along Morrison Road in the
Westwood neighborhood, bus traffic in lower Downtown, and
the proposed cancellation of the Call-n-Rides. Jessie Carter
pointed out that the Board Report includes a look ahead
outlining items currently under consideration during the next
service change period which are:
 Service along Morrison Road in the Westwood
neighborhood
 Optimization of W-Line (Light Rail) peak period service
 Civic Center Station construction detours
Jessie Carter noted that highlighted in yellow in the Board
Report are a number of changes staff is recommending as a
result of the public comment process.
Director Bagley commended the staff that worked with
Douglas County in creating a proposal to avoid the
cancellation of the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride. He
recognized Eugene Howard, Douglas County Transit Mobility
Program Manager, for his extensive participation in working
toward a resolution in addition to the Douglas County
Commissioner and staff. Director Bagley knows that by
reaching out to not only Douglas County but also the
Highlands Ranch Community, RTD can work in conjunction
with the stakeholders to create a better Call-n-Ride. He
believes that this Call-n-Ride can become a model for future
Call-n-Rides that are on the edge of RTD’s metro area. He
reiterated how appreciative he is for what staff has done and
looks forward to continuing his participation in making this
service better.

Director Hoy stated that he came prepared to persuade the
Board to exclude the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride but staff has
already proposed the change. He said he did want to read a
comment he received from a friend of one of the Call-n-Ride
riders that really illustrates the importance of the service RTD
provides:
“Joan owned a car until last month. Two months ago she
took a workshop on safe driving for seniors and realized it was
probably not best for her to drive as she had pretty serious leg
pain. She began inquiring about the Call-n-Ride bus. She was
pleased about being able to go to shopping locations and the
pharmacy and decided her kids could pick her up for other
family events. But it was extremely important to her to
continue on her bowling team. Once she figured out that she
could have a weekly subscription to and from bowling she was
“sold”. Today at a meeting she stated “I have never felt so
free”. “I have no car repairs, no insurance and no worries”.
Then she said “it gives me goose bumps” and rubbed her
arms. Followed by “I can’t talk anymore, it just feels great!”
She said that several other people on her team asked her
about the bus so she will be bringing flyers to them.”
Director Menten asked for more information about the looking
ahead section regarding the optimization of W-Line peak period
service. Jessie Carter explained that there have been a
number of changes, one of which is to include the removal of
one all day train on the W-Line; that has presented some
challenges to the operations department. He said that staff
also needs to further look at ridership on the W-Line and
optimize the service levels in the peak periods. The concept
would be looking at the level of service going to Federal
Center on the short term trains and looking at reducing that
from 15 minute frequency to every 30 minutes.
Director Menten shared that she has had many personal
communications with constituents regarding the Belmar Call-nRide. She wonders what staff has heard regarding the
proposed discontinuance of the Garrison Flex route. Brian
Matthews, Manager of Special Service, indicated that he has
heard only one comment on the discontinuance of the Garrison
Flex route. He noted that the Garrison Station would be
served by a reservation only Call-n-Ride, which should alleviate
some of the concerns of the local residents.

Director Menten stated that she would be voting no this
evening as she would like to get information about the new
agreements for the Federal Heights, Highlands Ranch and
Parker Call-n-Rides. She indicated she would take this
conversation offline with staff.
Director Anderson commended staff for working with the
community and making changes as they receive input. She
thinks it is very important for our communities to know that
when staff proposes service changes, it is not written in
stone. Director Anderson also commended the Adams County
communities for stepping up and asking DRCOG to use some
additional grant money. She believes that the Federal Heights
Call-n-Ride is really on the way up and hopes it will be as well
used at the Golden Call-n-Ride.
Director Tobiassen echoed Director Anderson’s comments
about how well staff works with the communities and
stakeholders during the public meetings to really try to address
their concerns. He noted that he did receive a lot of cut-andpaste type emails from a group in Downtown Denver but was
unsure as to their concerns. He asked if staff could provide an
overview of their complaint. Jessie Carter explained that the
City of Denver is converting 18th to a two-way street. There
is concern from some of the members of the community that
live on 18th that RTD will be increasing the number of buses
that drive by their homes as we will no longer utilize the
current detour that has certain routes running outbound on
17th and inbound on 18th. He said that there is another portion
of the community that wants RTD to use the new two-way
street, which represents a larger portion of the community.
Director Deadwyler thanked staff for the hard work and efforts
they put in every day to solve any service problems. She
asked for additional details about the increased service for the
15 and 15L. Jessie Carter said that in conducting running
time and load analysis, adjustments were made to add trips
during peak periods. He noted that there would also be an
additional trip added going to Colfax and Tower Road after
7:00 p.m., running around 8:00 p.m.
Director Solano said that he finds it observable that Adams
County would provide for the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride
because that is where the most needy people are. He does
not think other areas need the Call-n-Ride as much.

Director Rivera-Malpiede expressed her appreciation to staff
for their work with the Westwood Unidos Community and
9to5 regarding service on Morrison Road. She said that is has
been an amazing experience and the community really feels so
empowered. She reiterated that RTD staff has been beyond
stellar in working with this community.
Director Walker wonders if staff shares comments we receive
related to unsafe walking conditions to the appropriate city,
municipality, etc. Jessie Carter stated that staff is in frequent
contact to keep them up-to-date on RTD’s plans and any
comments we receive that might pertain to them.
Committee Chair Lubow shared that she has been receiving
numerous communications from a rider on Route HX about
overcrowding. She wonders if the additional a.m. and p.m.
trips will be a long-term solution to the problem. Jessie Carter
said that staff is hoping this will help but some additional
steps may need to be taken such as adjusting the times of
trips to better address ridership.
Director Lasater echoed Director Bagley’s sentiments related
to the great efforts between staff, Douglas County and the
City of Parker. He shared that about 40 to 50 people showed
up for the public comment meeting in Parker. The Call-n-Ride
was really their only mode of transportation, especially for the
many seniors in the community. He said that the President of
the Parker Senior Center also attended and expressed similar
concerns for his members. Director Lasater also recognized
Eugene Howard for all of his hard work. Director Lasater
stated that Mr. Howard really has a passion for transportation
and will work with RTD and the stakeholders to make the
Parker Call-n-Ride successful.
Bruce Abel thanked all the groups, cities, municipalities, etc.
that are contributing financially, as well as with staff time, to
make the Call-n-Rides sustainable. He said from a staff
perspective they really appreciate the ability to work
collaboratively with the community.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

• Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that
free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military
should be extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2014
to December 31, 2015. Utilization has been minimal to date and this
extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 28, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Hoy wondered if there was a reason that this action
was only for one year. He said that he does not see himself
voting no in the foreseeable future and made the motion
extend the free rides for three years. There was no second for
the motion.
Director Tobiassen stated that approving this yearly is a good
opportunity for RTD to remind the active duty members of the
Unites States Military of the benefit and to recognize their
service.
Director Solano shared that his son-in-law and two grandsons
are in the Army; they talk to him all the time about how great
this benefit is. He said that all three asked him to extend their
thanks to the Board.
Director Anderson agrees with Director Tobiassen that it is
good to approve this every year to remind all active duty
Military that they get to ride for free and to extend the Board’s
thanks for their service. The is really a ceremonial process
that the Board does each year.

Director Folska echoed Director Tobiassen and Anderson’s
sentiments. She said it is also a nice way for the Board and
staff to remember the service the Military members provide.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
AWAY: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

• Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract with
Lamar Advertising of Denver for the three year period January 1, 2015
through December 31, 2017 with a two year option for 2018 and 2019.
Under the terms of the recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD
either 1) a minimum guarantee of $4.0 million in 2015, $4.1 million in 2016
and $4.2 million in 2017 or 2) seventy percent of net sales, whichever is
greater.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 28, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager of Marketing, explained that
this contract is for on-vehicle advertising for the interior and
exterior of the buses and light rail cars.
Director Menten pointed out that RTD does a lot of advertising
for our own services. She asked for more information on how
that works. She wonders if a paid advertisement will always
take priority over an RTD ad. Tony McCaulay stated that RTD
reserves a certain percentage of space for our ads as well as
media trades. He noted that there have been rare occasions
where Lamar Advertising has sold their allocation and
approached RTD for more. He explained that typically we do

allow them the additional space as it means more revenue for
us.
Director Deadwyler wonders if we have used this vendor
before and what the past revenue has been. Tony McCaulay
said that RTD has been working with Lamar since about 1998
and they bring in about $4.2 million per year. This contract
guarantees RTD a minimum of $4.0 million in 2016 or 70% of
net sales, whichever is greater. Scott Reed, Assistant General
Manager of Communications, noted that the $4.0 million
guarantee is more than Lamar’s current guarantee and
reiterated that RTD could receive more depending on net sales.
Director Deadwyler feels that if they have been exceeding
$4.0 million the guarantee for 2016 should be higher.
Director James informed the Board that he has suggested that
marketing look into a media trade with Colorado Public Radio
(CPR). He asked for a status on his suggestion. Tony
McCaulay said that staff has approached CPR but have not
reached an agreement at this time. He explained that media
trades with public radio can be difficult because they typically
have things like show sponsorships, which is typically worth
more than just a commercial.
Director Solano expressed his support for ads on buses but
has concerns about the articles he has seen where transit
authorities have gone into litigation with religious or political
groups regarding their advertisements. He wonders how much
RTD has spent on litigation in similar scenarios. Marla Lien,
General Counsel, stated that other than her staff salary, RTD
has not spent any money on this type of litigation. She
explained that staff’s efforts to either work with sponsoring
advertisers to fix the ads or determining the ads are within
First Amendment rights has resulted in RTD not being sued.
Tony McCaulay noted that the contract with Lamar
Advertising was only one part of the Request for Proposal
(RFP). The RFP also included advertisements on Access-aRide vehicles as well as in vehicle digital advertisements. He
said that RTD received one proposal for each; staff is
evaluating those proposals and will come to the Board with a
recommendation at a later date.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Fare Task Force Update
Bruce Abel thanked the Board for the opportunity to review the Fare Study
this evening. He introduced Lacy Bell, Project Manager for the Fare Study.
They reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board covering the
findings of CH2M Hill to-date as well as a reminder of the principals that
came out of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force. A copy of the presentation
is available in the October 21, 2014 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Agenda Packet.
Bruce Abel informed the Board that is was very important to note that per
CH2M Hill’s findings, only San Diego puts out an hour of bus service more
cost effectively than RTD and only Pittsburgh does on the paratransit side.
He reminded the Board that there is no direct correlation between fare
increases and ridership. He noted that in 2005-2006, 2007-2008 and
2010-2011 there were fare increases and in every case, ridership also went
up; factors such as cost of fuel, employment, etc. have a significant impact
on ridership as well.
Director Folska pointed out that in many of the instances of fare increase
and ridership increase mentioned by Bruce Abel, these were also during
economic downturns when most people could not afford gas. She wonders
if one of this fare increases is also the same time when RTD cut a great deal
of service. Bruce Abel stated that there was a service reduction in January,
2012. He reiterated the point he was trying to make is that there is more
than just the fare charged that influences transit ridership.
Director Folska inquired if CH2M Hill has been taking into account other
factors such as the cost of parking, free services such as the 16th Street
Mall Shuttle, etc. Bruce Abel said those are elements that would be looked
at, especially the cost of parking, but had not been addressed yet.
Director Solano expressed concern that staff kept bringing up the idea of
revenue. He reminded the Board that transit agencies do not operate at a
profit, it is about efficiency. He said that it is also important to always
remember the uncertainty of RTD’s revenue.

Director James commented that as one of the participants of the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force he appreciates staff bringing up the history for
perspective. He also thanked staff for the inclusion of capital expenditures
in the presentation. It is easy to put off replacing buses and trains in the
interest of expanding ridership or maintaining low fares. He appreciates that
RTD does not do that. Director James also appreciates staff recommending
that we maintain our reserves.
Director Walker thinks this is very interesting to review. He feels the size of
RTD’s service area compared to others is very surprising when put into
perspective. He said he is looking forward to the next update.
Committee Chair Lubow asked if the study will compare how RTD handles
the availability of discount passes, specifically for low income riders,
compared to other agencies. Bruce Abel said that will be an element looked
at, but at a later phase of the study.
Director Solano shared that he has talked to many people that do not even
have the capacity to apply for the non-profit passes. He believes it is a
dilemma that RTD really needs to look at.

 West Line Parking Management Update (No Back-Up)
Errol Stevens, Parking Management Administrator, reminded the Board that
they approved the addition of the W-Line to the parking management
program back in January, 2014. He said that staff has been in negotiations
with Central Parking, which did take longer than anticipated; however, an
agreement has been reached.
Errol Stevens shared that through Q3 of 2014 the parking management
program had generated a little over $100K in revenues to RTD’s general
fund. This has been the first net revenues to come out of the parking
program because there was a lot of initial infrastructure investment. He said
that there have been 17 new pay stations installed with more being installed
in the next 60 days. The new pay station allows the user to walk up,
determine if they are in or out of District, enter the number of days they will
be parking, and then pay.
Errol Stevens stated that implementation of parking fees for the W-Line
would go into effect on Monday, October 27, 2014. The marketing team
has put notices on the website and social media, distributed flyers and will
also have people at the stations the first day. He said it will be very
interesting to see what happens with the parking as right now 20-25% of
the users are out of District.

Errol Stevens said that there will also be a new stationary camera system to
track the days a car is parked at the stations, which will be much more
effective.
Director Bagley shared with the Board that he recently visited the Sheridan
and Wadsworth parking structures during mid-day and neither was close to
capacity. He reminded everyone that these structures were built for 30
years from now, not today’s ridership. Director Bagley also believes that
locations that had Park-n-Rides before the rail came will have higher
utilization. Errol Stevens said that both the Southeast and Southwest
corridors saw parking of over 4,000 cars within the first year; on the west
line is it about 1600.
Director Tobiassen commented that he is on the E-470 Board and they have
a fairly significant loss of revenue due to temporary tags. He suggested
staff speak with them about their technology. He said he also hopes that
we are still participating in the State Patrols stolen vehicle program.
Director Daly expressed his continued concern about charging for parking on
the W-Line before the line to DIA is complete. He noted that parking at the
lot that RTD leases from Sports Authority is only at 4% utilization and
Sheridan 11%. He feels with that kind of usage, why would RTD deter
people from parking there. Errol Stevens stated that was a legitimate
question. He said that to date he has not seen an instance of parking going
down once fees are charged.
Director James acknowledged that if RTD was to charge parking rates, the
effect would most likely be to those that can afford it more than those that
cannot.
Director Solano believes that RTD should not rush into charging for parking
on the W-Line with so many unknowns.

D. Other Matters
Pertaining to the comments made under other matters during the Civil Rights
Committee Meeting on October 21, 2014, Director Anderson stated that she heard
several things over the evening that she found very disturbing about the Board not
being diverse enough and that diversity needs to be more represented. She takes
umbrage to people talking about quotas for diversity on the Board and not about
considering that people are elected by their peers in the community.
Director Solano asked for a point of order as this does not relate to Operations and
Customer Service. Committee Chair Lubow asked Marla Lien if all discussion
brought up in other matters had to pertain specifically to the committee. Marla Lien

stated that it should pertain to the committee topic but she has heard many other
members talk about many other things previously. She added that it is really up to
the Chair of the committee to determine what topics are allowed.
Committee Chair Lubow informed the Board that as of the close of business there
had been 17,147 people who voted for the art contest. She encouraged everyone
to vote.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 18, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

