1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, July 2, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:25 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:25 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:30 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:20 PM
5:26 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Absent
Present

5:25 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:31 PM
5:13 PM
5:32 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:24 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Kevin Diviness, John
Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Diana Horton, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois,
Jim Starling, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta
Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Jane Donovan, Joni Goheen, Doug Grass, Stan Gronek, Sherman
Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Jeff Irvin, Jacob Riger, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn, Bob Wilson, Hugh Wilson

B. JCECA Recognition
Frank Buczkowski, Senior Manager of Systems Integrations, read a letter from
Jefferson County Emergency Communications Authority (JCECA) to the Board and
introduced Jeff Irvin, the Executive Director of JCECA. This letter can be found in
the July 2, 2013 FasTracks Committee Meeting Agenda Packet.
Jeff Irvin further explained that JCECA serves local government agencies in both
Broomfield and Jefferson counties. They collect an emergency telephone charge
which citizens in each county pay when paying their phone bills and use it to fund
911 in the region. There are 28 local government agencies, consisting of mostly
police and fire agencies, that form the JCECA inter-governmental agreement.
JCECA supports 10 public safety answering points, 7 of which are primary law
enforcement communication centers and 3 of which are fire and EMS
communication centers. He then gave some details on Next Generation 911, which
is IP based, including video, biometrics, and other types of information that can aid
a first responder with some pre-arrival instruction to help save lives. The
opportunity with the fiber has been just incredible, Irvin related. RTD staff has been
amazing to work with and JCECA has enjoyed a very professional relationship with
the Board, which has fostered a one-of-a-kind project. As a representative of
JCECA, he would like to thank RTD for the collaboration on enabling what is now
and will continue to be in the future a highly secure and profitable network. Beyond
the scope of the project JCECA is currently working on (from the Jefferson County
government campus to the Auraria Higher Education Center), they are now working
on a connection to the Denver Union Station hub and to the gold line, which will
help us connect even more of our agencies in Westminster and Arvada. This has
been an incredible effort which has continued to expand and which is providing an
amazing opportunity for local government and public safety to create this network
to serve all of the citizens in the metro area eventually.

C. Updates

• Northwest Area Mobility Study Board Update
Bill Van Meter introduced Chris Quinn as the planning project manager for
the Northwest Area Mobility Study Board. Mr. Quinn thanked the Board and
provided the following status update. He stated that when the planning
staff got the most recent cost estimate about a year and a half ago, they
realized they would not be able to construct the corridor immediately and it
became their goal to provide the stakeholders with alternatives in the shorter
term. They selected HNTB as their consultant at the end of March and
established a technical advisory committee and policy advisory committee
consisting of elected officials of the region. On May 29, they held a
collaboration summit to establish goals and objectives for a study which
they would use to measure successful outcomes. Key tasks of the study
include determining the remaining BRT funding priority for US 36, evaluating
the possibility of segmenting the northwest rail corridor, evaluating the
potential for extending the north metro corridor, and evaluating potential
mobility improvements such as BRT type improvements in the arterial
roadway network, as well as addressing issues of reverse commutes on the
downtown express. The two key pieces to keep in mind are that there are
several decisions that they expect to have wrapped up by mid-summer and
by March of 2014 they expect to have a final report of recommendations.
Chris Quinn then presented information in a PowerPoint presentation, which
can be found in the July 2, 2013 agenda packet. He indicated that the
general focus currently is on identifying problems and potential
solutions/alternatives. Public involvement to date has included 2 telephone
town hall meetings. The first meeting had about 5,300 participants and the
2nd one had about 5,400 participants. It was a pretty clear success and they
would like to continue to use this tool in the future. Their website allows
people to ask questions, submit comments and sign up for newsletters and
to hear about activities. He then opened the floor for any questions.
Chair Anderson noted that there were 5,300 participants in the first meeting
and about 5,400 in the 2nd. She asked how many of the participants calledin each evening versus being reached through out-bound phone calls
conducted by the contracted automated dialing service. The response was
35 from the first meeting and 48 from the second meeting.
Director Lubow expressed thanks for all the hard work that went into this
study and is hopeful that the stakeholders can reach a consensus on the
issue.
Director Bagley inquired about the PowerPoint slide regarding the key tasks
of the study; he wanted confirmation that his perception was correct on

what the various lines on the map in the presentation represented. Mr.
Quinn confirmed that the green line is I-25. The next one is Weld County
Road 7, and the purple is an alternative that follows CR7 and verges to miss
some of the development from the last couple of years and by-pass
development on State Highway 119. Then the furthest blue line heading
north-south would utilize 287. The dashed line is where the existing line
now goes out to the Bel-Mar, Belmont Towers. Director Bagley would be
interested to know what the segment distances are and what the time
sequences are going to be for the lines.
Director Walker asked if there is any flexibility in the number of open houses
we can have. Mr. Quinn responded that this number is not set in stone. He
stated that typically for this region and district we hold three; one in the
north corridor, one in the middle, and one in the south end.
Director Hoy inquired about alternatives being studied to connect Longmont
to the north metro line and whether a train from Boulder to Longmont is still
an option. Mr. Quinn replied that all options are on the table and they want
to emphasize that unless the voters were to change the plan, the northwest
rail is of course in the plan.
Director Lubow asked if it would be possible to also explore the potential of
using the UP right of way to Valmont. Mr. Quinn responded that it is
something they want to keep on the table and although they do anticipate
some difficulty, as it doesn’t quite reach Boulder, it’s not insurmountable by
any means. Director Lubow then asked whether the data from the first town
hall meeting around people indicating they liked the idea of receiving
information via email would be taken into account and acted upon. Mr.
Quinn assured the Board that email addresses are being accepted and they
intend to send email blasts out as information continues to become
available.
Director James requested more details on the alternatives to BRT mentioned
in the PowerPoint presentation. Mr. Quinn gave the example that CDOT is
currently in the process of evaluating a proposal from Swift Transit who
wants to build a personal rapid transit along 119, connecting Longmont with
Boulder, as a demonstration project. Knowing that there’s a little more
traction on alternative technologies these days is encouraging and they want
to keep an open mind when evaluating proposals.
GM Washington stressed how important it is to reach a consensus so we
can pursue additional funding. The fact is that we don’t currently have the
funding. We will be taking a very deliberate approach to administering the
study this year and conveying the results early next year, as they will be
instrumental in providing mobility options for not only the northwest

corridor, but district-wide. Additional funding is absolutely necessary and
cannot be procured until consensus is reached.

D. Other Matters
Director Tobiassen requested an update on the Colfax corridor study in a future
Board meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 6, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the Planning and Development Committee
meeting at 6:03 p.m. to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

