Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

October 12, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Malpiede, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Cohen, Deadwyler, and McMullen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, L. Skip Brown, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Tony McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, Mark
Carlen, John Elias, Eric Miller, Eric Farrington

Others Present:

Stan Gronek, Dr. William Gross, Kathy Maher, Brett Painter, Cheryl
Wallace
****

Call to Order:
I

Committee Chair Malpiede called the meeting to order at 8:06 p.m.

Updates
 Civil Right Update (Hardin)
Kenn Hardin shared that as many of the Board members are aware, he assumed
his position as the Sr. Manager of the Civil Rights Division on September 3 and
the Civil Rights Division was placed under the Executive Office on September
24th. He stated that he and General Manager Washington are working on a plan
for how the Civil Rights Division will ultimately look. They are responsible for
the Small Business Office, WIN Program (Workforce Initiative Now), EEO and
Title VI.
Kenn explained that in the past he has worked on programs that have given RTD
focus and accolades. His goal has been to have people understand that RTD is a
very inclusive organization and a strong presence in the community.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 2 of 4

Kenn Hardin stated that he will be working with Committee Chair Malpiede to
set the agenda for each meeting. He explained that it was their goal to make
the Division more transparent and help the Board Members understand how the
Civil Right Division works, learn their processes, and see their successes.
Kenn Hardin explained his goal of bringing the prime contractors in front of the
contracting community more often. He shared that recently Kiewit had an open
house on the I-225 project to let the small business community know of
contracting opportunities. Kenn stated that this shows what the Small Business
office is doing for the small business community.
Kenn Hardin reviewed the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Advisory
Committee with the Board. He explained that the committee meets quarterly
and is composed of the minority organizations and minority chambers of
commerce. They work together and have a quarterly spotlight for small
businesses and prime contractors. He shared that this quarter the DBEAC is
featuring Kiewit for their efforts in supporting small business by providing
mentoring and support services on contracts, bonding, etc. The small business
highlighted this quarter was St. Andrews Electric. They worked on the T-Rex
project, have worked with Kiewit on Denver Union Station and have a great
opportunity working on the Eagle project.
Kenn told the Board about the outreach scheduled for tomorrow, October 10,
with the Denver Union Station redevelopment project. He shared that on
October 11 we will also be working with Adolfson & Peterson on the Boulder
Transit Village project in order to make sure that the community is also involved
with small businesses that want to work on that project.
Committee Chair Malpiede asked for the time of the DUS Outreach scheduled for
October 10. Mr. Hardin stated that it would be held at 6:00 p.m.
Director Bagley asked if based on the reorganization and significant alteration to
the department in combination with Kenn’s comments that the Board needed to
better understand the processes he could take it to mean that we have not been
doing a good job. Mr. Hardin explained that he believes even though we have
been doing well, there are always ways to do things better. He stated that he is
a very demanding person; it has shown through his past performances and he
will continue to demand even more and expect more because RTD deserves
more.


DBE/SBE Compliance Monitoring Report (Hardin)
Kenn Hardin pointed out that as we begin to close on the West Corridor, the
Board would see positive results. He stated that a DBE goal of 19% on design
and 18% on construction were established. He shared that over the years the
team has met the goal on design and has exceeded the construction goal at
22%. He believes that as the first corridor to be complete for FasTracks we
should all be very excited that the DBE program stands to have done such an
excellent job with very aggressive goals.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 3 of 4

Kenn also drew the Board’s attention to the Wadsworth Garage project. He
stated that the DBE goal was 16% and it looks like we will exceed that goal as
well. The garage is expected to be finished in February.
Kenn Hardin shared that we have been conducting internal audits on those
projects and our paperwork looks very good.
Director Tayer expressed that he has really enjoyed this report. He stated that
he thought it would be helpful to have a cover page with bullet points on key
items within the report. Kenn said that was a great suggestion and staff would
begin to implement for the next report.
Committee Chair Malpiede stated that it is hard not to be reenergized by the
passion of Mr. Hardin. She believes we need to start celebrating our successes
with the community because these efforts are across the board and encompass
the entire community.
Mr. Hardin also mentioned that General Manager Washington requested he share
with the Board why General Manager Washington was unable to attend the
committee meeting. Kenn explained that General Manager is presenting a
strategic leadership development program at the National Dialogue on Career
Pathways Forum in Washington, D.C. Kenn expressed that both he and General
Manager Washington believe that as this industry is an aging industry it is very
important to build leaders from within. Kenn stated that at the federal level, we
expect the next reauthorization bill will incorporate something similar to the WIN
program. He said staff is hoping there will be money on the table to focus on
getting people into career pathways.
Kenn Hardin reviewed the beginnings of the plan that General Manager
Washington is working on. Kenn explained that staff is creating a pamphlet that
will outline the various career pathways. He expressed that this is something
APTA and the feds are interested in.
Director Anderson asked who the target market is. She asked if staff would be
going to high schools and/or colleges. Mr. Hardin responded that it is for RTD
employees and people who want to be in the industry. He said that staff would
be going to schools and explained that the upcoming WIN Grant was actually
written to address high schools specifically. Kenn explained that with I-225 and
US 36 projects there have been requests from the professional services areas
wanting young engineers. Kenn said that many of the recent graduates lack
some of the skill sets the prime contractors are looking for and explained that we
will bring some of them in as WIN interns so by summer they will be ready for
some of those available positions.
Director Anderson stated that her concern is that it has been a Denver program
but if you look at Adams and Jefferson Counties there are students that
probably need this. She would like to see a list/plan on how outreach will be
done to all groups.
Kenn Hardin stated that staff can share the WIN

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 4 of 4

methodology with the Board. He explained that much of it is tied to our network
partners.
Committee Chair Malpiede shared that the new APTA Chair, Flora Castillo,
stated that her mission for the year is to serve the people and Flora asked
General Manager Washington to co-chair a committee with her.
She stated
that APTA is looking to adopt our WIN program nationally and Peter Rogoff is
also looking at it for the White House. Committee Chair Malpiede believes it is
amazing the level of work RTD has done and the impact RTD has had across the
country.
II

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

III

Next Meeting Date – December 11, 2012

IV

Adjourn
Director Malpiede adjourned the meeting at 8:32.pm.

