Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
February 13, 2014 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 12:02 p.m.

II.

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Sisk, 1st Vice-chair Hoy, Secretary Walker
and Treasurer Tobiassen

Other Board members in attendance:

Director Bagley, Director Deadwyler and Director
Folska (via phone)

Others Present:

General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Sisk opened this item by doing a quick walk through of the February Board agenda.
General Manager Washington shared that we will have a special recognition for the
American Red Cross for the grants and AED’s (defibrillators) that they awarded to RTD.
Chair Sisk inquired about the possible public participation for Tuesday night. General
Manager Washington indicated that we believe we have addressed the issue of 18th
Street traffic for the Wynkoop neighborhood but it is possible that a few of them may
show. We do expect representatives from the 9to5 group based around the attention that
the study has received. Director Deadwyler shared her perspective that it would have
been good if we had shared all of our material with them prior to the publishing of this
study. She believes it could have alleviated much of the attention. General Manager
Washington shared that RTD has made numerous attempts to visit with this group without
success. They were also participants in our RTD Reduced Fare Program but made no
mention of this in the study. Director Deadwyler reiterated that the coordinator had not
seen our information prior to the release of the document. As years evolve and leadership
changes, this type of information may have gotten lost in the process. Chair Sisk shared
that they had met with Mary Young (Mile-Hi Connects), General Manager Washington had

shared some information but he concurs that Mary Young appeared not to have been
aware of this information.

Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve
moving the February 18 Board agenda before
the full Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler noted that an action listed
on the unanimous consent for the IGA with the
City and County of Denver for the free
MetroRide should have been under
recommended action. Paula Perdue confirmed
this information and corrections to the Board
agenda were made.
Committee members reviewed the updated
Board action for access-a-Cab to make sure the
modification proposed by Director Folska had
been made and a redlined copy was available.
Director Bagley provided a clarification of the
action item for the RTD funding of the DUSPA
Project.

Vote on the
Motion:


The motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent
A. Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Member Appointment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint one member to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) to fill a vacancy on the Committee.
B. Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver (CCD) for a share of the 16th Street Maintenance (Blocks 1-13)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (CCD) for
the shared maintenance cost of the 13 block portion of the 16 th Street Mall

between Broadway and Market Street. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to
share the cost of maintaining the granite pavers, curbs and transition stones within
the transitway.
C. May 2014 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the May 2014 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately
$1,440,000 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.



Recommended Action
D. Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver (CCD) for the Free MetroRide
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver (CCD), for the maintenance of roadway and street furniture
improvements constructed for the operation of the Free MetroRide, formerly known as
the Downtown Denver Circulator (Circulator).
E. Contract Award for the District Shops HRU Project.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to the
low, responsive, responsible bidder, JCOR, in the not-to-exceed amount of $2,669,400
for the District Shops Heat Recovery Unit (HRU) project. In addition, a transfer shall be
made from the State of Good Repair federal grant to the project budget in the amount
of $322,103.
F. Transfer of Funds from Light Rail Capital to Light Rail Expense
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve the
transfer of $703,000 in approved 2014 capital to an expense line to facilitate the
development of revised Light Rail Vehicle specifications.

G. Access-a-Ride Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $5,271,915 to re-allocate
previously approved Access-a-Ride 2014 funding from budget accounts associated
with the expired Access-a-Ride service provider contracts to budget accounts
associated with the new Access-a-Ride service provider contracts.
H. Access-a-Cab Program
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to extend Agreements with Metro Taxi, Yellow Cab, and Union Taxi Inc., to
provide Access-a-Cab services. In addition, as long as the program remains successful
and beneficial to RTD, the General Manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized to
negotiate and enter into agreements with each participating cab company for three (3)
years with two 1-year options.
I.

RTD Funding of DUSPA Project

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager to contribute the 2012 $3.3 million
working capital advance to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA)
towards completion of the Denver Union Station project and relieve the related
receivable as of December 31, 2013.

III.

RTD Strategic Planning Overview
Chair Sisk introduced this item. He shared that he, GM Washington and Paula Perdue had
met with the facilitator in preparation for the March 1 Strategic Planning Advance. He
thinks it is important that the Board has an understanding and appreciation of the strategic
planning process we will be going through and how important their feedback is to the
process. He wanted to review this item with the Executive Committee to get their input.
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Bagley added that while we
had a successful year in 2013 for the GM Evaluation process, he wanted to enhance the
process and make continuous improvements. He had worked with the General Manager
and Paula Perdue to identify areas for improvement and we had worked together to
develop the graphs and mapping so hopefully Board members will understand the linkage
between what we do at the retreat and how that flows into the goal setting and the GM
evaluation process. All of this is part of the strategic planning process and the Board’s
role as governance and leaders in helping to set direction for the agency. We will go into
further analysis of the detailed mapping at a GM Oversight Committee meeting or perhaps

a 30 minute discussion at a study session so the full Board will have a chance to better
understand the process.
Paula Perdue reviewed the graphics of the pyramid that explains the components of the
strategic planning process (i.e. What-vision and mission and the How-strategic goals from
the strategic planning retreat and the tactical goals from the GM identifying the tasks,
activities, programs and projects that they will be implementing to achieve the goals). The
second graphic identified the components of the goal setting process and the performance
management and evaluation timeline.
The Committee determined that all of this information is helpful and should be included in
the strategic planning advance preparation material but the focus at the strategic planning
advance (retreat) will be on the high level strategic planning process and timeline. Director
Bagley will establish the framework, Paula Perdue will present this information and General
Manager Washington will provide the example of how he develops his tactical goals and
the tie in to the type of projects/ action items that come before the Board in support of
these goals.
IV.

Other Matters




Director Bagley shared that he had six items for discussion:
o He would like RTD to consider hosting an infrastructure meeting with the South
Metro Business Development Group. Details need to be worked out.
o He would like to invite Tami Door and the Downtown Denver Partnership to a
committee meeting to talk about collaboration.
o He has requested security for the Strategic Planning Advance on March 1 similar to
what we provide at any Board meeting.
o He believes it is important that Board members traveling to conferences provide a
travel-tic of their trip. This provides an accounting of the use of public funds for
travel.
o He has provided a personal response to the letter from Will Toor. He believes it is
important that we provide support and work in a collaborative manner.
o He believes the new committee Chairs need to really be trained on how to focus
their meetings so that unrelated items are put in parking lots or handled quickly so
as not to derail the meeting. Paula Perdue responded that the lunch and learn
workshop on Board meeting effectiveness that was scheduled and cancelled in
December would address these type of tools for committee Chairs.
Director Deadwyler shared her frustration on a number of issues including her
perspective that not all Board members are treated equally or responded to in a timely
manner by staff. She provided two examples that she has had. She indicated that
some of the disruption at the Board/committee meetings comes about out of sheer
frustration and a desire for her voice to be heard. General Manager Washington





V.

indicated that he was unaware but advocated for the Board members to use the GMR
process and let the Board or his office know of the request. (Follow-up note: The two
items raised by Director Deadwyler were addressed by GM Washington with his staff.)
Director Folska concurred on some of the concerns and indicated that as new Board
members get familiar, some of this will start to improve. She emphasized that these
issues apply across the Board both with new and seasoned Board members.
Director Hoy shared his experience from the CDOT meeting on the US 36 PPP process.
He indicated there were roughly 300 people in attendance who were quite angry. The
meeting appeared out of control and security called for backup. This is a glaring
example of what happens when you wait too late to engage the public in the process
and not communicate in a timely manner. Director Tobiassen added that the HPTE and
visibility of this issue has been heightened to an international level. The concern was
expressed that this reflects poorly on the PPP process and may have far reaching
negative consequences on the willingness of the privates to participate in the process.
It could negatively impact RTD or other transit properties looking for PPP participation
on our projects.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 1:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

