Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 15, 2009 at 3:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

October 15, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 15,
2009 at 3:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Pro Tem Martinez; 2nd Vice-Chair Busck;
Secretary Daly; Treasurer Tayer (via phone); Directors
Brohl and Chacon

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp

Staff Present:

Phil Washington and Paula Perdue

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at
3:02 p.m.

I.

October Board Meeting Review
Interim General Manager Phil Washington reviewed items on the unanimous
consent agenda and the recommended action.
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to move the full
Board agenda ahead for the Board approval on
October 20, 2009.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Busck provided a brief explanation of
what the presentation by the General Manager
Search Committee will consist of. Please refer
to the GM Transition Team Status update.
The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent
 Dedication of Right of Way (ROW) at Highlands Ranch park-n-Ride
It is recommended by Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to participate in the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 15, 2009 at 3:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 6
replat of Lots 5A and 5B, Highlands Ranch – Filing No. 141, First
Amendment which will include the dedication of approximately .42
acres of Regional Transportation District property to Douglas County
for public right of way.


Approval for the Addition and funding for the 13 th Avenue Station on
the I-225 Corridor Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the addition of the 13 th Avenue Station on
the I-225 Corridor project. The addition of the 13 th Avenue Station
will not result in a cost increase to the project and the station has
been shown to have long term benefits to the RTD.



Approval to Adopt the I-225 Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation
(EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the Adoption of the I-225 Corridor Final
Environmental Evaluation (EE) document.



Contract Amendment for Final Design (Segment 1) with Michael
Baker Jr., Inc. on the I-225 Corridor, Contract No. 17-DH-006
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or designees
to execute all documents necessary to award a contract amendment
not to exceed $3,500,000 with Michael Baker Jr., Inc. (Baker) to
provide final design services for Segment 1, Nine Mile to Iliff. Funds
for this contract amendment are available in the FasTracks Budget for
the I-225 Corridor Project.



Recommendation for Execution of RTD-DUSPA Funding Agreement in
consideration of the major transit elements to be constructed at
Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Chair and Secretary to execute: i) a
subordinate sales tax revenue bond (the “Bond”); and ii) the
DUSPA/RTD Funding Agreement (the “Funding Agreement”) to
provide for payments from RTD to DUSPA in consideration of DUSPA
incurring obligations to finance major transit elements that are part of
the DUS project and are included in the FasTracks Plan. The Bond
will be issued in the face amount of $167,954,114 over thirty years
at a current market interest rate of 5.85%.
Total repayment
(principal and interest) on the Bond will equal $360,194,666.



Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States
Military should be extended from the presently approved date of

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 15, 2009 at 3:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 6
December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010. Utilization has been
minimal to date and this extension will have a minimal impact on
RTD.


Award Contract to supply and install additional Automatic Passenger
Counters (APC) in Light Rail Vehicles, Mall Shuttles and Intercity
Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General
Manager, or his designee, to award a sole-source contract to
Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT), a Chesapeake, Virginia
company, for the purchase of additional automatic passenger
counters (APC) to be installed in RTD vehicles. The units will be
installed in 40 RTD vehicles to include 18 Light Rail vehicles, 10 Mall
Shuttles and 12 intercity buses. The total cost for the project is
$743,585. The funding for this contract is provided by the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009.



District Shops Roof Replacement - Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to
award a contract to the lowest, responsive, responsible bidder,
Douglass-Colony Roofing in the amount of $1,964,000 for the
District Shops Roof Replacement Project. The total cost of this
project is $2,075,746, including design and contingencies. Funding
for this project is contained in the 2009 RTD budget including
$2,000,000 in ARRA funding.



RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 - Authorizing the General
Manager to Take Action with Respect to Interest Rate Exchange
Agreements if specified conditions exist



Purchase six 45 foot ultra-low-sulfur diesel Intercity buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General
Manager, or his designee, to authorize the purchase of six (6) new 45
foot intercity buses from MCI Corporation for a price not to exceed
$491,666 each and extended warranties for all six (6) vehicles at a
cost of $4,300 per vehicle. The total cost for all six (6) buses and
extended warranties is $2,975,796.



RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 – Support for the Diversity
Council of the Regional Transportation District



RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 – Mileage Differential for
Eligible Board Members

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 15, 2009 at 3:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 6
 Recommendations from Pass Program Committee
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the RTD Board accept the recommendations of the RTD Pass
Committee for pricing of the Eco Pass and Neighborhood Pass
programs as outlined in Attachments A and B, to be implemented
following the availability of utilization data from smart cards. In
addition, lift the current moratorium on new and expanded contracts
in the Neighborhood Pass program as described in Attachment B.


Recommended Action


Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) Quitclaim on West
Corridor
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to execute a quitclaim
deed in favor of Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) on
approximately 2,057 square feet of vacant land located west of the
Platte River on the West Howard Place alignment and to receive a
quitclaim deed from Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo) on
approximately 3,050 square feet of vacant land located near the RTD
owned alignment for the West Corridor and Simms Street.


Request for Approval of the Eagle Project Utility Relocation
Agreement Work Orders (Design Only)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his
designee to (1) execute Work Orders under the RTD Eagle Project
Utility Relocation Agreements (URAs) in order to proceed with the
design of relocation for certain long lead time utility relocations, as
further described below, (“Early Relocations”) necessitated by the
Eagle Project implementation in an amount not to exceed a total RTD
financial responsibility of $2,500,000; 2) to delegate signature
authority to execute the URAs and any such design Work Orders.
$500,000 of the total of $2,500,000 is included in the 2009
amended Budget for the Eagle Project corridors (East Corridor, Gold
Line, Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, and Northwest Rail portion
from DUS to South Westminster Station). The remaining $2,000,000
is included in the 2010 requested budget for these corridors.



Contract for External Audit Services
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate
and execute all documents necessary to award a contract to Bondi &
Co. LLC to perform the District’s annual external audit services. The
initial three-year term of the contract would ne for the fiscal years
2009, 2010, and 2011 in the amount of $285,000 with options to

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 15, 2009 at 3:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 6
extend for two more years, 2012 at $105,000 and 2013 at
$110,000, at the Districts discretion.

II.



Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Interim General Manager or his designee be authorized to
enter into a contract with Lamar Advertising of Denver for the three
year period January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012 with a two
year option for 2013 and 2014.
Under the terms of the
recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum
guarantee of $3.3 million in 2010, $4.0 million in 2011 and $4.4
million in 2012 or 2) seventy percent of net sales, whichever is
greater.



Approval of January 10, 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the January 10, 2020 Service
Change package as revised and summarized on Attachment A
resulting in a net annual savings of approximately $499,200, and,
further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.

GM Transition Team Status
Committee Chair Busck shared that the Committee will be doing a presentation
at next Tuesday’s meeting to bring the full Board up to-date on progress. They
will be bringing options to the Board for the interview process, Stakeholder
Civic Panel and ideas on an open house where stakeholders, employees,
constituents and others will have a chance to meet the finalists in a social
setting.
Discussion occurred around the need for a clear plan on how to proceed and to
communicate how the Board intends to use a representative sample of the
transit rider population to include in this process along with the other activities
this committee has undertaken to make this a transparent process. Director
Busck described the 5 member stakeholder panel will consist of three people
picked by the RTD Board, 1 person chosen by the Metro Mayors Caucus and 1
person chosen by the Economic Development organization. He also offered up
for consideration that it may be nice to have one of those representatives be
from the north corridors or from the I-225 corridor which does not appear to be
getting much in the phase I of the FasTracks project. The Civic Panel will have
a chance to meet with the candidates and will provide their feedback to the
Board but after the Board has interviewed the candidates so as to not bias the
process. Committee Chair Busck stated we are hoping to have the process
finalized by the end of the month. We are asking everyone to be flexible and
requesting the full Board to participate in the process.

III. Champion of Transit
The committee engaged in open discussion regarding the criteria for this award
and if changes should occur to the current process. Varied perspectives were
shared around the need to increase the meaning and perceived value of this
award, if it should be opened up for employee eligibility or have different

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 15, 2009 at 3:00
p.m.
Page 6 of 6
categories of winners and if this award should be offered in 2009.
Director Busck made a motion to not do the Champion of Transit this year but
to study or form a small ad hoc team to develop meaningful criteria for
nomination and selection. This motion died for lack of a second.
Director Busck made a motion to do the Champion of Transit Awards in 2009
as done currently. Director Daly seconded the motion.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez took the action item to bring this forward before the
full Board for consideration of three options:
 Do the same as has been done in previous years
 Offer the awards into three categories: organization, individual and
public official
 Do not do the awards in 2009. Evaluate how to put more teeth into
the criteria, nomination and selection process.
IV. Other Matters
 Director Daly announced an ad hoc committee has been developed to
evaluate the RFP proposal for the Patton Boggs contract. That committee
will consist of Directors Daly, Pulliam, O’Boyle and Tobiassen.

Director Brohl brought forth an issue she was concerned about related to
slates for the Executive Board position. She preferenced her statement by
saying it is in no way a reflection on the current Executive Board members
but it is a concern over the process that is being used to select Executive
Board members. She presented several arguments/concerns about the use
of slates and emphasized this defeats the transparency that the Board is
seeking. She elaborated on how voting for a slate, rather than individuals by
position could be a deterrent to an open process where members are
selected based on their own merit. She referenced the feedback received
from the various stakeholder forums where the primary message was a call
for transparency as a way to rebuild public trust. She strongly encouraged
the Board to re-consider this concept of voting by slates.
Several other Board members agreed with Director Brohl and discussed the
history of the Board voting and how voting by slates came about. Director
Busck stated that he could understand the concerns expressed by Director
Brohl but do believe that the last slate was a good process in getting a more
cohesive and effective Board. However, this could also work against them if
the wrong slate is brought forth. Director Chacon also expressed some very
strong concerns related to the process and advocated for a process that
would be transparent, based on individual merit, inclusive and diversity.
The Committee felt the concerns expressed did have some merit and will be
bringing a recommendation forward to vote individually by the position and
that each candidate would be given the opportunity to talk about why
he/she is interested in the position. One consideration would be for the
Board to define a process that by a defined date, Board members who are
interested in running for a position on the Executive Committee could submit
their names and would be required to present before the Board on why they
should be elected to the position. The bylaws would be revised to include
the process for running for office.
V.

The meeting adjourned at 4:40 p.m.

