Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
March 19, 2015 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

March Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Activation of the GM Transition Committee Chair

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) Personnel Matters, Interim General Manager

VI.

Adjourn from Executive Session

VII.

Adjourn from Meeting

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - March 24, 2015
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Dennis R. Bangert – Light Rail Train Operator – 31 years
William W. Berkhimer – Street Supervisor, Bus Operations – 31 years
Ronald Garcia – Light Rail Train Operator – 30 years
Kevin M. St. Croix – Division Manager, Platte – 35 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of February 17, 2015

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent

XII.

Recommended Action
A.

Request for Increase to SmartCard Contract and Budget Transfer

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to increase the
Xerox Transport Solutions contract not-to-exceed amount by $1,300,000 to a new
contract amount not-to-exceed $21,031,382 and to authorize a budget transfer of
up to $3,800,000 to fund activities under this contract.
B.

Authorization to execute a budget transfer to purchase thermal printers

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a
budget transfer in an amount up to $1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project in
order to purchase and install the equipment necessary to accommodate the sale of
fare media under the proposed fare structure.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV.

New Business

XV.

Motion to Move Into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) Personnel Matters - Interim General Manager

XVI.

Adjourn from Executive Session

XVII. Adjourn from Meeting

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: March 12, 2015

From:

Doug MacLeod, Controller

GM

Date:

March 12, 2015

Board Meeting Date: March 24, 2015

Subject:

Request for Increase to SmartCard Contract
and Budget Transfer

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to increase the Xerox Transport Solutions contract not-toexceed amount by $1,300,000 to a new contract amount not-to-exceed $21,031,382 and to authorize
a budget transfer of up to $3,800,000 to fund activities under this contract.
DISCUSSION
Staff is seeking Board authorization to increase the Xerox SmartCard contract by $1,300,000 in order to
expand the scope of the contract to include work that was not originally anticipated at that stage of the
project.
Staff is also seeking authorization to provide funding through a budget transfer of up to
$3,800,000 to fund this additional $1,300,000 of work as well for those work items previously
approved by the Board in October 2014.
The following new activities are proposed to be added to the scope of work of the Xerox contract:
Bus validators for Call-n-Ride vehicles- SmartCard validators have been installed and are being used on
fixed route buses. RTD planned to install SmartCard validators on approximately 60 Call-n-Ride vehicles
in the future. With the proposed fare structure recommended for implementation in 2016, it will be
necessary to install SmartCard readers on Call-n-Ride vehicles sooner than initially planned as transfers
will be eliminated and SmartCards and day passes will become the primary sources of payment. Call-nRide vehicles must be equipped with SmartCard validators to accommodate the new fare structure.
Funding of $800,000 under the Xerox contract will be necessary.
SmartCard Hosting - RTD is working with Xerox to provide a hosting solution for its SmartCard
technology. Xerox provides hosting services for other agencies using SmartCard technology and has the
in-house expertise and systems to provide this service to RTD. In order to facilitate the transfer of
hosting RTD’s SmartCard technology, additional scope of work of $500,000 under the Xerox contract
may be necessary.
In addition to these new activities, in October 2014, the Board of Directors authorized an increase in the
Xerox contract to include $2,349,912 of new work items. Board authorization is now being requested
to fund those items through a budget transfer as follows:
Additional web portal and process system changes are necessary to complete the SmartCard
functionality needed for the remaining project elements such as stored value, monthly passes and backend coding to accommodate the proposed fare structure. Funding necessary for this functionality is
$1,300,000.

Packet Pg. 4

2.12.A

Additional owner’s representative services are necessary to complete the remaining project elements for
the SmartCard project including business process development and additional guidance and oversight for
implementation. Funding necessary for these services is $1,200,000.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The estimated unfunded cost of completing the above items is $3,800,000. Funding is available from
proceeds already received from the issuance of Certificates of Participation (COPs) in which certain of
those proceeds are not currently needed for their original intent such as the purchase of Mall Shuttles.
Therefore, there would be no budgetary impact; rather a transfer of funds would be completed from
other projects to the SmartCard project. This funding will be backfilled through the 2015 amended
budget process.

ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to increase the Xerox Transport Solutions contract
not-to-exceed amount by $1,300,000 to a new contract amount not to exceed $21,031,382 and
authorize a budget transfer of up to $3,800,000. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to increase the Xerox Transport Solutions
contract not-to-exceed amount by $1,300,000 to a new contract amount not to exceed
$21,031,382 and complete a budget transfer of $3,800,000. This is not the recommended
action because RTD would be unable to complete and implement the SmartCard system or the
new fare structure.

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: March 12, 2015

From:

Doug MacLeod, Controller

GM

Date:

March 12, 2015

Board Meeting Date: March 24, 2015

Subject:

Authorization to execute a budget transfer to
purchase thermal printers

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget transfer in an amount up to
$1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project in order to purchase and install the equipment necessary to
accommodate the sale of fare media under the proposed fare structure.
BACKGROUND
RTD has proposed a modified and simplified fare structure to the Board to be enacted in January 2016.
Under the new fare structure, it is proposed that transfers be eliminated and a day pass be offered to
customers for purchase on board RTD buses. The day pass is proposed to be priced at two times the
single fare and would allow a customer to have unlimited rides during a service day, thereby not
requiring a rider to purchase a fare at each transfer.

DISCUSSION
In order to make the day pass widely available to RTD’s patrons, the ability to purchase day passes is
needed at the location where a patron accesses RTD’s services either on buses or at rail platforms. RTD
currently has the ability to sell day passes at rail platforms through ticket vending machines (TVMs) and
at sales outlets but currently does not have the ability to offer day passes to patrons who purchase their
first fare upon entering a bus. In order to offer a day pass on buses, a thermal printer would be installed
in each bus whereby a customer would pay for the day pass through the farebox and the operator would
produce a day pass from the thermal printer. The day pass will be printed on watermarked paper and
would clearly indicate the service day for which it is valid.
Although the Board has not yet authorized RTD to implement the new fare structure, authority to enter a
contract for the purchase and installation of thermal printers is being sought at this time due to the lead
time necessary to complete this procurement to meet the January 2016 fare structure implementation. If
the final Board action approving changes to RTD’s 2016 fare policy does not include a day pass, thus
negating the need for thermal printers, this funding will not be used.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The estimated cost of installing thermal printers on each of the approximately 1,000 buses in the RTD
fleet is $1,900,000. This cost includes the equipment as well as the connections and installation
necessary to tie the printers into the RTD network.
The funding necessary for this procurement would come from a portion of the Certificate of Participation
(COP) proceeds that were authorized by the Board to be used for the replacement of Mall Shuttles.

Packet Pg. 6

2.12.B

Therefore, there would be no need to seek additional funding for this procurement and no budgetary
impact other than the transfer of funds from one project to another. These funds will be backfilled
through the 2015 amended budget process.

ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget transfer in order to
purchase and install the equipment necessary to accommodate the sale of fare media under
the proposed 2016 fare structure. This action grants authority to execute a budget transfer in
an amount not to exceed $1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project. This is the recommended
action.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget transfer. This action
would result in RTD’s inability to procure needed day pass fare media equipment in time to
provide the ability for patrons to purchase day passes on buses and avoid multiple fare payments
for transfers. This is not the recommended action.

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

