1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Barry Gore, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
October 23, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Ten (10) Board Members were present at roll call. Directors Bagley, McMullen, O’Boyle and
Walker were absent. Director Cohen arrived after the meeting began.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Richard Brady, body mechanic with over 35 years with RTD, was the only retiree present.
Dean Shaklee introduced Richard stating he started in 1977 as a service and cleaning person.
Richard has two sons and one of his hobbies is converting vintage cars into hot rods. Richard
has worked on a number of projects including the major rehabilitation project in the body
shop. He will be missed.
Richard stated RTD is a great company to work for. He has participated in over 15 roadeos
including international at Disney, and NYC. He is looking forward to retirement and what it
will bring.
Chair Kemp acknowledged all of the retirees for the wonderful service to RTD and wished
them the best in their retirement.
Special Recognitions
The Board recognized participants of the bus roadeo and the light rail roadeo who finished in
the top three positions. The top bus roadeo winners will represent RTD at the International
roadeo in Indianapolis, Indiana.
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations introduced the following teams:
Operators
John Johnson
John Deschner
Dan French

1st Place
2nd Place
3rd Place

Maintenance

1st Place, Platte Division

Charlie Chavez
Jon Paul Mitchell
Ernesto Perez
Private Contractor Bus Operators
Jose Ek Chan, First Transit Denver, 1st Place
Abniger Ek Chan, First Transit Denver, 2nd Place
Steven Hull, First Transit Commerce City, 3rd Place
Private Contractor Bus Maintenance Team-1st Place, First Transit Commerce City. Bruce
introduced Ike Miller, Supervisor with First Transit.
Mike Sacchetta
Sead Beharic
Dencho Parapunov
Small buses (Paratransit) Roadeo Winner: Global Transportation. Bruce asked Larry Buter,
Manager of Access-r-ride services, and Don Seese, Global Transportation to join him in
presenting this award.
Leonard Santistevan
Service and Cleaning:
1st Robert Duran
2nd Ralph Gonzales
3rd Mark Buyalsai
Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager for Facilities, Safety and Security, presented
the following award. He stated these are the people who rise early to make sure our
park-n-rides, platforms, etc. are cleared during snowstorms and he has great appreciation
for what they do.
Single Axle:
David Williams and David Waite, 1st place
Tandem Axle:
Guy Pierce and Tyra Jones, 1st Place. Tyra was the first female place winner in this
competition.
Light Rail Roadeo Winners
Phil Eberl, Manager, presented the awards to the light rail winners on behalf of Austin
Jenkins who was not in the office.
Light Rail Operators
Bryan Coy, 1st Place (This was Bryan’s first competition which he won)
Diane Chavez, 2nd Place
Jim Petty, 3rd place
Light Rail Maintenance
Randall Lovegrove, 1st Place
Kevin Steele, 2nd Place
George Sweeney, 3rd Place (has competed in over 13 local competitions and 10
internationals)
Chair Kemp commented these winners are committed to their trade and represents well
how to make rubber hit the road and steel hit the track. The teams received a standing

ovation.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION


Joel Noble representing the Curtis Park Neighborhood commented on the closing of the
light rail stop at 29th and Welton. He indicated the neighborhood has been concerned
around the delays created by this stop that sometimes could be up to seven minutes.
This would cause commuters needing to make connections at 30th & Downing to miss
their connection. RTD has been studying this issue and looking for a resolution. The
Curtis Park Neighborhood and the Whittier neighborhood are in favor of the bypass of this
stop which will save time getting through the single track. The City of Denver is also
looking at the light synchronization around that area.
Joel indicated that there is a concern for safety at the 30 th& Welton location and
requested RTD to look at providing additional security for that station.
 Helen Bushnell, Lakewood Colorado, spoke about the call-n-ride service changes and
stated she thinks this was lost opportunity. There had been a public hearing but they did
not receive any communications back since that hearing. RTD appears to selectively
favor certain groups input and this is unfortunate. The call-n-ride website needs to be
dramatically improved. She would hope for follow-up from RTD.
Chair Kemp instructed the General Manager to have a member of the staff to follow-up
with Ms. Bushnell.
 Darrell Watson, Whittier Neighborhood, echoed the support for the stop change at 29 th
and Welton. He stated the community hopes this will solve the delay in making
connections at the 30th & Welton Station. He concurred on the safety concerns
expressed.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director O/Boyle
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen

Director Daly noted a couple of corrections to the Operations and Customer Services
Committee minutes which have been made.
VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Chair Kemp announced that there was no update from the General Manager Oversight and

Performance Management Committee but there is an action item for approval of the
General Manager’s new contract for 2013.
VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER 18 2012
MOTION:

Director Deadwyler moved for the
adoption of the September 18, 2012
Regular Board Meeting Minutes as
written and circulated.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with
11votes in favor and 0 against.
Directors Bagley, McMullen, O’Boyle
and Walker were absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

VII.

CHAIR’S REPORT
 September 19th, the Board members and CDOT Commissioners had a dinner meeting
where they had a collaborative discussion on transportation issues. They will continue
to work collaboratively in addressing issues related to transportation infrastructure and
planning.
 September 30th, Many of the Board members participated in APTA Annual where they
had another opportunity to meet with transit representatives from agencies and
businesses across the country to collaborate around issues such as MAP-21. Chair
Kemp was a recipient at this conference for the Transit Board Member of the Year.
 October 9th, RTD joined with Downtown Denver Partnership in celebrating the 30th
Anniversary of the16 St. Mall. Board member James spoke at this event along with
Honorable Mayor Hancock and State Representative Udall. Director James
commented it was good to see the collaboration between organizations on this mall.
 October 14-17 members of the Board attended the Rail-Volution Conference. Director
Malpiede moderated a conference on Affordable Housing which had an outstanding
panel and was well attended. Director Cohen also moderated a panel on how transit
plans around station and funding which included component on affordable housing.
This session was also well attended including some big hitter developers in LA)
 Chair Kemp recognized General Manager Washington for receiving an award at the
Denver Business Journal PowerBook luncheon in the category of Construction and
Engineering. The Executive Committee and members of Senior Leadership Team
attended this luncheon in support of the General Manager. General Manager
Washington commented this was truly a team and agency award.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 General Manager Washington spoke about the FasTracks Risk Allocation (RAM)








X.

Process which staff had introduced to the Board in last Tuesday’s committee
meeting. Their initial plans were over a period of several months to bring to the
Board 1-2 options for cost savings/revenue enhancements. They would roll up
about 8 of these high impact items into one Board report for Board action.
However, after some discussion with Board members and staff, they have decided
to introduce all of these options at one time in the next month or so for possible
consideration and voting by the Board in 2012. The goal from this activity is to
generate about $300M that can be used for FasTracks capital spending.
Chair Kemp indicated that he liked the idea especially since it allows the Board
members to do a side-by-side analysis of options and tradeoffs. Director Tayer
further elaborated that this was discussed in the Executive Committee and he sees
the benefits of bringing all the ideas together, especially since this Board has been
together for 2+ years and understand the challenges and compromises needed to
complete FasTracks. They have the experience and depth and this provides
opportunities to pursue additional options. Director Deadwyler commented that
she likes the idea of getting everything at once but was concerned if the Board
would be given adequate time to process and absorb the information. Director Hoy
mentioned that he had been addressing some of his constituents in the north and
they preferred to see the options being considered all at one time. Director
Anderson agreed this was a good approach. She also shared that she had
attended the local government meeting where one of the issues was the need to
be informed about these types of considerations so that they could attend the
meeting. Chair Kemp requested staff to reach out to the local communities about
this opportunity. The Board thanked Director Cohen for raising the issue in the
Executive Committee.
General Manager Washington shared that the Western High Speed Rail Alliance
Symposium was held in Denver on October 22-23. He had been asked to present
to this group. The group size was about 50-75 and they are studying high speed
especially throughout the southwest.
General Manager Washington indicated that as part of his investment in human
capital, the RTD Leadership Academy Graduation Ceremony is tomorrow, October
24 at the Oxford Hotel. This represents significant achievement from a program
that spanned over twelve months. There are 25 graduates and they will have a
guest speaker. Board members are invited.
General Manager Washington indicated they were in the preparation for RTD/ATU
Collective Bargaining Agreement Negotiations. He will be briefing the Board on
timelines and objectives in an Executive Session.
Other Matters-General Manager Washington indicated that another one of his
leadership programs, MAX, which consisted of three agencies in participation last
year, RTD, Los Angeles and Dallas, will expand to include a fourth agency-MBTA
in Boston. MBTA is a more established, seasoned agency who can share some
great knowledge around state of good repair processes.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A through J on the unanimous consent.
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the motion to
approve item A through J on the
unanimous consent agenda.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Deadwyler asked to have item B,
Approval of the January 2013 Service
Changes moved to recommended action
for further discussion.
The motion was revised to approve Items
A through J excluding item B from
unanimous consent.
.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 in
favor and 0 against. Directors Bagley,
McMullen, O’Boyle and Walker were
absent

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.

A. Approval of General Manager Contract
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the new General Manager’s contract with
an effective date beginning January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2015 and with an
option for two additional successive years.

C. Approval of the West Corridor Service Plan-April 2013
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the West Corridor Service Plan package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

D. Budget transfer from Technical Services Contracts to the SmartCard project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorizes a budget transfer of $450,000 from Technical Services Contracts
to the Retail Point of Sale (RPOS) portion of the SmartCard (SMT) project.

E. Approval of Free Rides for the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the extension of the free rides on RTD for active duty members of the
United States Military from the presently approved date of December 31, 2012 to December
31, 2013. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on
RTD.

F. Approval of Corporate Sponsorship Program Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract
with IMG Consulting for the development and implementation of a corporate sponsorship
program, to include naming rights and other sponsorship opportunities for RTD assets.

G. 2013 Salaried Benefit Plans (Howerter/Sprague)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
approve the 2013 plan year salaried employee insured benefits budget and authorize the
General Manager to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.

H. Proposed 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement (Howerter)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors accept the modifications to the 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement.

I. Authorization to Award the Construction Contract for the Pine Junction park-n-Ride
(pnR) Relocation Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary
to enter into a construction contract with Symmetry Builders Inc. in the amount of
$1,279,875.68 for the construction of the Pine Junction park-n-Ride Relocation Project. The
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) will provide $960,000 of Funding
Advancement for Surface Transportation and Economic Recovery (FASTER) funds for this
project. RTD will provide the remainder of the funding for this project.

J. Resolution No. ___, Series of 2012 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of
Regional Transportation District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks
Projects), Series 2012A.
XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

B. Approval of the January 2013 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2013 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of approximately $802,500 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

Director Anderson made the motion to
approve item A, approval of the January
2013 Service Changes.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Director Deadwyler expressed appreciation to the Curtis Park
Neighborhood Association and the Whittier Community for their
support of the action to remove the stop at 29th and Welton which is in
her District. She had also done due diligence with the Five Points
Community and wanted to read into record a letter from the Five
Points Business Association. The letter raised questions on if the
closure will affect developers from investing in RTD TOD project or
deter other property owners from investing in the neighborhood.
Director Deadwyler indicated she would support this closing with an
understanding that this is an evaluation period in which RTD will review

if this provided positive changes to the delays in connections and come
back with data in 6 months regarding the impact. A copy of that letter
and letters of support from the Curtis Park and Whittier Neighborhoods
are available in the Board office with the minute’s notebook.
Re: The Closing of the Light Rail Station at 29th and Welton St.
Dear Board of Directors:
The Five Points Business District represents property owners, business owners, and
community stakeholders in the heart of Historic Five Points. As you know, the above
referenced station is located on the main street of our culturally historic Welton Street
Corridor.
We felt it was important to announce this proposed closing to our mailing list of over 800
community stakeholders and on our Face Book page. We included this subject matter on
the agenda of our monthly community meeting held Saturday, October 6, where Mr.
Jesse Carter from RTD spoke about the benefits of closing this station. While we did not
receive a multitude of complaints, I am concerned that the protests will not really take
place until the station is actually closed in January, one of the coldest months of the year.
We recognize that the proposed closing may significantly increase the on-time
performance and service reliability of this train. However, our property owners who are re
-developing their sites to enhance the commercial prosperity of this area are not inclined
to agree that increasing the on-time performance rate will outweigh the benefits of
spurring development activities on this corridor.
Case in point: The Five Points community is included in RTD”s TOD Pilot Program to
study the possibilities of developing land that RTD owns to revitalize our neighborhood.
The RTD/TOD Pilot Program case study is on the parcel of land that is directly across the
street from the 29th and Welton St. station.
Will this closure affect developers from investing in RTD/TOD’s project if RTD should
decide to pursue development? Will closing the station deter other property owners from
investing in the neighborhood?
These questions are difficult to answer right now but should be asked and answered prior
to making the decision to permanently close this station. We hope that the RTD Board
evaluates not only the on-time performance and reliability issue but also the effect this
closure has had on the commuters, the residents, and the property owners that are being
encouraged to redevelop our historic district.
Sincerely,

Tracy J. Winchester
Executive Director
VOTE ON
THE

MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken
with 11 votes in favor and 0
against. Directors Bagley,
McMullen, O’Boyle and Walker
were absent.

K. Approval of On-Vehicle Advertising Contract Amendment and Exercising of
Option Years
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Director
authorize the General Manager or his designee to amend the current contract for the sale and
installation of on-vehicle advertising with Lamar Transit Advertising and to exercise the two year
option component of the contract, consistent with the terms and amendments outlined in this action
item.
MOTION:
Director Cohen made the motion
to
approve
the
on-vehicle
advertising contract amendment
and exercising of option years.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:

Director Anderson seconded the
motion.
Chair Kemp shared that Director
O’Boyle was opposed to this
action and had expressed concern
over
the
branding
image.
However, Director O’Boyle was
absent and would not be voting
on this item tonight.

An electronic vote was taken
with 11 votes in favor and 0
against. Directors Bagley,
McMullen, O’Boyle and Walker
were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no executive session.

XIII.

OLD BUSINESS
There was no old business.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS

General Manager Washington asked to address the Board. He expressed thanks to the Board
of Directors for their vote of confidence in him and renewing his contract. He reviewed some
of the accomplishments that have been achieved over the last 21/2 years as General
Manager:
 Completion of lessons learned regarding FasTracks
 Focused on bus safety and sustainability showing a 41% improvement
 Created a learning environment that supports leadership development
 Became model for “WIN” program success story-is the farm team for this industry
and continue to set bars
 Completed complex and difficult railroad agreement from East and Gold lines
 Delivered the first PPP-completed and executed $305 below budget
 Secured $1.03B full funding grant agreement (FFGA) for Eagle P3
 Strategic Business Plan outlined ways to be sustainable
 TOD strategic plan ranked #1 above more mature cities
 Developed partnership with union which resulted in 93% of represented employees
voting to extend the collective bargaining agreement
 Successfully Completed a Triennial review with outstanding results
 Secured $260M TIFIA loan
 Approved historic renovation of the DUS building
 Executed last $15M on capital program for US 36. Will finish capital in 2015 for
BRT.
 Secured Unsolicited proposal to complete full I-225 corridor
 Introduced the RAM matrix which is a plan to reduce costs for FasTracks and help to
finance the completion of the FasTracks program
 General Manager Washington declined the level of salary that was offered to him and
his salary is more in line with the rest of the agency.
 Built an outstanding team, one of the best in the country who are committed and
poised to continue to make RTD the envy of all transit properties. Failure is not an
option. They will stay the course as they focus on the Northwest quadrant, opening
up the West, Gold and DIA Lines on target and focusing on obtaining additional
funding for the full completion of all the corridors.
Comments from Board members:
 Director Tayer stated that General Manager Washington has served this agency with
honor and he is a model leader.
 Director James stated that Phil is the best and he has enjoyed working with him.
 Director Anderson congratulated General Manager Washington on his award and
agreed that he is an outstanding leader.
 Director Malpiede offered her congratulations and stated what a privilege it is to sit on
the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee and to see the type of
visionary and capable leader that General Manager Washington is. She thanked him
on behalf of the communities of diversity and for his inclusivity.
 Chair Kemp stated that on behalf of Director Bagley, Chair of the GM Oversight and
Performance Management Committee, he thanked the team for the transparency and
accessibility of information. General Manager Washington is all about the agency.
Other New Business:
 Director James reminded the Board and Senior Leadership of the memo they had
received on organizational membership. This is just another way of maintaining
relationships that we can partner with in this community to further the RTD agenda.
He asked the members to look over the organizations to help us identify the beneficial
organizations and our level of involvement with them. He thanked Scott Reed and
Paula Perdue for their assistance and Chair Kemp and General Manager Washington



XV.

for their approvals. This is all about managing expectations.
Chair Kemp reminded the Board of paperless packet training at the Study Session on
October 30th as well as the full week of training, October 29-Nov 2, for the agency.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:
___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING

Tuesday, October 23, 2012
BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Lorraine Anderson
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Barry Gore
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District O
District C
District M
District L
District N
District B
District K
District J
District A
District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Jeff Walker

District H
District C
District G
District D

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Larry Buter
Phil Eberl
Mike Gil
Barbara McManus
Daria Serna
Pauletta Tonilas
George Sweeney
Jim Petty
Jon Paul Mitchell
Bryan Coy

Rolf Asphaug
Jessie Carter
John Elias
Terry Howerter
Tony McCaulay
Dean Shaklee
Mike Turner
Randall Lovegrove
John Deschner
Ralph Gonzalez

Shirley Bennett
Rick Clarke
Sherry Ellebracht
Brian Iacono
Paula Perdue
John Shonsey
Bill Van Meter
Tim Walker
Charlie Chavez
Robert Duran

Carolyn Conover
David Genova
Erin Klaas
Scott Reed
John Tarbert
Phil Washington
Greg Smith
Ernesto Perez
Robin McIntosh Jr

OTHERS PRESENT
Dawn Abare, Josh Benninghoff, Jaclyn Best, L. Skip Brown, Richard A. Brady, Helen Bushnell, Stuart Coles,
August Comstock, Abniger Ek Chan, Jose Ek Chan, Stan Gronek, Steve Hull, Lee Johnson, R. Kahn, Adriana
Kowalski, Terry Kraser, Qing Liu, Ike Miller, Cliff Moak, Joel, Noble, Steve Roescher, Mike Sacchetta, Leonard
Santistevan, Kathryn Saphire, Don Seese, Mariah Shell, Jason Simmons, Darrell B. Watson, Monte Whaley,
Brent Window

