1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 30, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Tisdale asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance. He stated
that tonight would kick off a new tradition of inviting children to the Board meetings to
recite the Pledge of Allegiance. Chair Tisdale stated that the opportunity would be open to
all, and encouraged scouting troops, youth service organizations, and other such groups to
participate. He added that if anyone was a part of such groups or knew of one that might
like to attend to contact the Board Office for more details.
Chair Tisdale introduced Finn and Sully McKay, the children of Board Office Administrator,
John McKay, and his wife Amanda to lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:02 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:32 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Absent
Present

3:56 PM
5:32 PM

Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:37 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:32 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:31 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:31 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

5:18 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:27 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

4:17 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were fourteen (14) Board members present at roll call.
Director Folska, Ph.D. was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Martha Bembry, Nicole Carey, Jessie
Carter, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Larry
Kier, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Greg
Peterson, Michael Porter, Scott Reed, Ruth Seleske, Henry
Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Paul Von Fay

Others Present:

Shelly Cook, William Gross, Tom Mauer, John Thompson, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

The Chair discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency occurred.
IV.

Retiree Awards
Chair Tisdale noted there were five (5) retirees for the month of January with two (2) in
attendance: Edward Jenkins and Greg Pennington.
Chair Tisdale asked Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations to introduce
Mr. Edward Jenkins.
Mr. Abel stated that unfortunately, Edward Jenkins was not in attendance yet.
Chair Tisdale asked Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations to
introduce Mr. Greg Pennington.
Mr. Emmons stated the he was honored to acknowledge Mr. Pennington’s retirement and
accomplishments at RTD. He added that Mr. Pennington had been an amazing employee
for RTD. Mr. Emmons stated that Mr. Pennington began working for RTD in 1985 as a
General Repair Bus Mechanic, and worked his way through different divisions within RTD.
Mr. Emmons said that in 1990 Mr. Pennington began supervising at the Platte Division and
was promoted to a permanent positon as Running Repair Supervisor. He added that in
1991 Mr. Pennington moved to the Quality Control Inspector division and went on to
become training instructor in 1993. Mr. Emmons stated that in 2002 Mr. Pennington
moved to Light Rail division as the Maintenance of Way Supervisor and would retire from

that department as General Superintendent of Infrastructure. Mr. Emmons acknowledged
that Mr. Pennington had been married to his wife, Shelly, for 37 years, and thanked her
for her support for all the years that Mr. Pennington had been with RTD. He added that
Mr. Pennington and his wife intended to spend their retirement traveling, doing hobbies,
and spending time with their family and grandchildren. Mr. Emmons thanked Mr.
Pennington for his hard work stating that he was more than just a co-worker but a great
friend.
Mr. Pennington thanked Mr. Emmons, RTD, and all of the people he had worked with for
all the opportunities that had been afforded to him over the years. He specifically thanked
Mr. Emmons for the years of friendship and support.
Chair Tisdale asked if any of the other RTD retirees were in attendance and seeing none,
he recognized the remaining retirees listed.
Timothy J. Aguilar - Lead Dispatcher – 29 years
Larry Draper - Light Rail Train Operator – 21 years
Edward Jenkins - Bus Operator – 18 years
Greg Pennington - General Superintendent, Infrastructure – 33 years
David Roberts - Bus Operator – 24 years

V.

Public Participation
Chair Tisdale stated that the public participation period was open to anyone who wanted
to speak. He explained that elected officials were invited to speak first, and others would
be called in the order they signed up, and then additional speakers would be invited at the
end of the list. He reminded the audience that each speaker was allowed three minutes
and to approach the lectern when called and state their name and address. Chair Tisdale
asked that if any speaker had documentation or reference materials for the Board to give
those materials to the Board staff prior to speaking.
Doug Gragg, Denver, stated that he lived in the heart of Cheeseman Park and commented
on the issue with the City and County of Denver (CCD) and their desire for granite to be
used on the 16th Street Mall. He remarked that RTD should take a harder approach with
CCD and fight against using granite.
Joe Triplett, Aurora, thanked RTD and the Board for the support and flowers he had
received when his wife passed away. He added that it was an honor to receive the flowers
from RTD and that it meant a lot to him and his family.

VI.

Committee Reports
Chair Tisdale stated that the committee minutes were included in the board packet and
that all requested corrections had been made and were reflected in the current packet. He
asked if there were any other questions.
Director Menten stated that there were two additional changes that she would like
addressed regarding the discussion about CCD materials for the 16th Street Mall design,
specifically that CCD wanted granite for both the transit way and sidewalks.
Chair Tisdale stated that staff would address and update the minutes accordingly.
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Chair Tisdale asked Director Francone, as the immediate past chair of the GM Oversight
and Performance Management Committee, if she would like to say a few words since
tonight was her last meeting.
Director Francone stated that the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee
was the single most important committee that the Board served on. She added that all
Board members should be offering their opinions and completing the survey. Director
Francone stated she had passed the torch to Director Walker and thanked the staff and
Directors for all of their hard work and support.
Chair Tisdale stated that she would be missed.
Committee Chair Walker stated that he had reached out to Committee member and Board
Members and had received multiple comments:
1. Some Directors felt there was not adequate opportunity to provide input and some
stated that there was ample opportunity.
2. Most Directors stated there needed to be separation between the evaluation of the
General Manager’s performance and consideration of any discretionary performance
payment.
3. It was important to get the survey feedback from all Directors

4. There was a need to adjust meeting times in order to have the attendance of all
Committee members.
5. The committee needed attention and participation from the full Board and was an
open and transparent project.
Committee Chair Walker concluded that he was looking forward to the challenge and
spearheading the committee.

VIII.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
the Special Board Meeting minutes of January 9,
2018.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and 0 against. Director Folska,
Ph.D. was absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Ph.D.

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Tisdale stated that there would be another change to the Board Meeting process. He
explained that the Board meetings and events were included in the packet and that he
would not be reading the full accounting of the recent and upcoming activities of the
Board Members. Instead, Chair Tisdale stated he would share a summary of the most
pertinent events on the horizon, as well as other items the Board members should be made
aware.

Chair Tisdale stated that the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) legislative
conference would be held in Washington, D.C., from March 17th - 20th, 2018 and that
there were five (5) directors attending. He added that the South West Transit
Association’s (SWTA) “Freedom Through Transit” annual conference would be held in
Denver from March 5th - 7th, 2018 and three (3) directors had indicated interest in
attending. Chair Tisdale recommended that any Directors that had not responded speak
with the Board Office for more details on the event.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova stated that retiree Mr. Edward Jenkins had arrived and asked Mr.
Abel to introduce him to the board.
Mr. Abel asked Gina Callahan, Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus Operation, to join
him to acknowledge Mr. Jenkins. He stated that Mr. Jenkins was retiring after eighteen
(18) years as a Bus Operator. Mr. Abel stated that Mr. Jenkins loved working, and that he
was looking forward to coming back to RTD part time as a retired bus operator.
Mr. Jenkins thank Mr. Abel and stated it had been a pleasure working with everyone.
General Manager Genova stated that his full report was in the packet, but he would share
a number of items that he wanted to update the Board on. He explained that on January
22, 2018 RTD submitted written testimony to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
(CPUC) to support RTD’s requests to amend its applications relating to grade crossings for
the EAGLE Project’s University of Colorado A Line and G Line. RTD is seeking CPUC
approval to eliminate the requirement, as previously ordered by the Commission, for gradecrossing attendants to be present at grade crossings. General Manager Genova stated that
if there were no opposition wishing to file answer testimony, then the evidentiary hearing
would be held on February 15th - 16th, 2018. He added that if there was answer testimony
filed, then the hearing would be held March 12th - 14th, 2018. Mr. Genova stated that the
RTD project team and the Denver transit Partners (DTP) team had a number of technical
conferences with the interested parties and had heard that the testimony that RTD filed
had answered all of their questions.
General Manager Genova stated that testing on the G Line was proceeding and that the
current phase of the testing process would focus on communication and signaling
systems, as well as the communication of traffic and rail signals at railroad crossings. He
added that a fact sheet had been developed that would update the latest regarding the G
Line testing. He paraphrased some of the testing outcomes, asking people to be patient as
the process was being worked on and to expect some variability. He explained that testing
on the wireless crossing had not begun because there were other parameters to work
through prior to receiving regulatory approval and then testing on the wireless crossing

would begin. General Manager Genova stated that G Line testing, safety, train horn and
quiet zone information continued to be communicated to the communities along the G
Line.
General Manager Genova updated the quiet zone status explaining that the Federal
Railroad Administration (FRA) had given long-term waivers and that recently the FRA quiet
zone team had been in Denver to evaluate all of the grade crossings to determine that
federal requirements were being met. He added that an update was being developed that
would explain the current quiet zone status and the steps being worked through with the
FRA. General Manager Genova stated that the next steps would be to get through the
CPUC hearing and receive their acceptance to the FRA agreements.
General Manager Genova provided an update on the union negotiations stating that RTD
and the union continue to meet and have reached a tentative agreement on many of the
non-economic conditions such as the technology on the buses, restroom issues, and the
language in the contract. He explained that the next series of meetings would begin
discussions on economic issues and wages. General Manager Genova stated that RTD was
optimistic that the wage and benefit package was a solid offer and would be presented to
the union next week. He stated that he had sent the Board an email explaining that part of
the process was that the union filed a notice of intent to strike, which occurs every
negotiation, but it did not mean there would actually be a strike.
General Manager Genova provided a contractual update on the negotiations with DTP
regarding their change in law claim. He stated that negotiations were moving to the next
step in the contract, which was panel arbitration. General Manager Genova explained that
panel members would be selected to go through a non-binding arbitration process,
meaning either party could agree or disagree with the final decision, and then the
negotiation would move to the next step in the contract. He added that the schedule for
the panel arbitration was still being developed.
General Manager Genova provided a contractual update on the North Metro negotiations
with Regional Rail Partners (RRP) regarding the delay claim on the N Line project. He
explained that an agreement could not be reached with a negotiation mediator and that the
next step would be to move into binding arbitration. General Manager Genova explained
that binding arbitration included a comprehensive discovery process that would take a long
time. He added that he would continue to provide updates as information was made
available.
General Manager Genova stated he recently received information from RTD’s state liaison
that Senate Bill 88, which clarified the sales tax issue on retail marijuana had passed. He
added that at the next Government Relations Committee meeting, a more detailed report
would be provided from Brandeberry McKenna.

General Manager Genova introduced RTD’s new Chief Operating Officer Michael Ford. He
stated that the hiring process had been a national recruitment that had taken some time
with multiple postings to find the right candidate. General Manager Genova stated that
RTD was excited to have Mr. Ford on board and looking forward to what he would bring
to the agency.
Mr. Ford thanked the Board for the opportunity and for welcoming him to RTD.
Director Menten asked if the University of Colorado A Line had complied with the
conditions described in the FRA waiver. She asked if the University of Colorado A Line had
not met those conditions would there be an additional waiver. She remarked that a
constituent had asked the question and she needed additional background information.
General Manager Genova stated that a response was being prepared and would be issued
to the constituent directly. He explained that if the FRA required a waiver for constant
warning time it would be just to address the constant warning time. He stated that the
constant warning time may be added to the existing waiver or issued as a new waiver,
further adding that it was not uncommon for a waiver to be modified as issues were
addressed.
Director Menten stated that the University of Colorado A Line still had waiver conditions to
meet.
General Manager Genova stated that the constant warning time system was still being
worked on. He explained that in a recent letter to the stakeholders the agency stated that
the equipment was capable of providing the constant warning time with the wireless
crossing technology that works in conjunction with the positive train control. General
Manager Genova stated that the agency was committed to getting through the quiet zone
process and that there was language in the quiet zone rules that stated constant warning
time only needed to be provided if it was practical. He added that the information was
included in the letter and that it would be sent to the Board with other updates.
Director Lubow asked about the liability for the pension and retirement trust with regard to
the union contract negotiations.
General Manager Genova explained that the RTD Pension Trust had met to determine the
best model and plan, and would provide that decision at the next meeting with the union
contract representatives.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Tisdale suggested that if there were any questions or need for discussion of an
agenda item, a Director should request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda.
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to approve
items A and B on the unanimous consent
agenda.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and Zero (0) against. Director
Folska, Ph.D., was absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Ph.D.

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
A.
Salaried Trustee Appointments
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Scott Reed and Derrick
Black, to terms expiring 12/31/2020 as trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit
(i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
B.
Project Carryforward for SmartCard Stored Value
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $1,919,147 from the operating reserve
to the Information Technology Base System capital project budget, effective January 1,
2018, to allow for the completion of the SmartCard Stored Value Implementation
Project (#10322) that was not completed in 2017. The operating reserve will be
replenished in the 2018 Amended Budget with the funds that were not spent on this
project in 2017.

XII.

Recommended Action
There were no recommended actions.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
There was no old business.

XV.

New Business
Director Francone thanked everyone for the kindness and support during her time on the
RTD Board. She noted that it had been pleasure and honor to work with the Board and
staff. She added that her last day would officially be February 5th and asked if the
Directors would still like her to attend the upcoming Board Retreat.
Director Williams stated that her input and experience was valuable and she would like
Director Francone to attend.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 6:28 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

