Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, PhD, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 30, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Timothy J. Aguilar - Lead Dispatcher – 29 years
Larry Draper - Light Rail Train Operator – 21 years
Edward Jenkins - Bus Operator – 18 years
Greg Pennington - General Superintendent, Infrastructure – 33 years
David Roberts - Bus Operator – 24 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Salaried Trustee Appointments

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Scott Reed and Derrick
Black, to terms expiring 12/31/2020 as trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit
(i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
B.

Project Carryforward for SmartCard Stored Value

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $1,919,147 from the operating reserve
to the Information Technology Base System capital project budget, effective January 1,
2018, to allow for the completion of the SmartCard Stored Value Implementation
Project (#10322) that was not completed in 2017. The operating reserve will be
replenished in the 2018 Amended Budget with the funds that were not spent on this
project in 2017.

XII.

Recommended Action

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

6.A

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, PhD, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, January 23, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Williams called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Committee Chair
Director, District C

Absent
Present

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Absent

5:24 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present

5:14 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:34 PM

Natalie Menten
Ken Mihalik

Director, District M
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:15 PM
4:38 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:28 PM
5:07 PM
5:23 PM

Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

4:30 PM

5:03 PM

Packet Pg. 3

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Butler, Nicole
Carey, Jessie Carter, Terry Emmons, Raleigh Elstun, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Chris Harmon, John Hersey, Pamela Kachka, Larry Kier,
Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop,
Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Daniel Menter, Michael Porter, Scott
Reed, Ruth Seleske, Jannett Scarpino, Luke Sinclare, Greg Smith,
Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Monika, TreiplHarnke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood,
Christina Zazueta,

Others Present:

Kristie Brown, Steve Butler, Brian Cassidy, Bar Chadwick, Gary
Forbes, Dr. William Gross, Lynn Guissinger, Anne Herzenberg,
Heather Maresh, Jason McIntosh Darla Ortiz, Siger Petraic, M. Scott
Ramming, Dana Saors, John Thompson, Joe Triplette, Gary Van
Dorn, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• 16th Street Mall Project Update: The Mall Experience
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General manager of Planning, introduced Susan
Wood, Planning Project Manager, and Joytsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer,
to present the overview of the 16th Street Mall Project Update.
Ms. Wood highlighted the following from the presentation:
16th Street Mall Recap:
• Concern with maintenance issues and costs launched several efforts
between 2009 and 2016 to evaluate and study rehabilitation of the
16th St. Mall (Broadway to Market Street)
• City and County of Denver (CCD) also conducted a planning process
regarding the use and configuration of the Mall with the goal to
create a place people wanted “to go to, not just go through”
• Spring 2017, RTD, CCD and Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP)
together initiated an Alternatives Analysis (AA) and Environmental
Assessment (EA)
16th Street Mall Status Overview:
• Summer 2017 to present: AA and EA underway
o AA Status: 6 Alternatives (No Build and 5 Build) evaluated
o EA Status: Section 106 consultation to evaluate impact on
cultural resource (the Mall) and 4(f) evaluation (required for

Packet Pg. 4

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

o
o

Current Alignment:
• Asymmetrical
o Broadway to Tremont
o Arapahoe to Market
Alternatives Analysis:
• No Build Alternative
• 5 Build Alternatives
• Median and New Asymmetrical
• Center Running
• Center and New Asymmetrical
• Rebuild in Existing Configuration
• Partial Repair in Existing Configuration
Screening Process and Criteria
• Meet Purpose and Need
o Purpose:
“Develop and implement a flexible and sustainable plan for the
Mall to address deteriorating infrastructure, provide equitable
and sufficient space for high-quality public gathering
opportunities, improve pedestrian and vehicle safety, and
continue reliable 2-way transit shuttle service on the Mall
while honoring the Mall’s use and iconic design”
o Need:
“The Mall has failing and outdated infrastructure and limited
space for safe and engaging public gathering activities. The
deteriorating infrastructure causes safety hazards for both
pedestrians and vehicles, and requires frequent and costly
maintenance. The Mall attracts large numbers of people, but a
low percentage of people stop to spend time on the Mall. The
current configuration of the Mall creates a situation in which
pedestrian corridors are constrained, creating frequent
pedestrian and shuttle conflicts”
o Improvements needed to meet:
 Increase opportunities for public use of the Mall as an
iconic space
 Allow reasonable maintenance frequency and costs
 Improve safety for pedestrians and vehicles
Packet Pg. 5

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o

transportation projects that are historically significant) are
underway
Meetings and Outreach: 5 Consulting Parties meetings, 3
Stakeholder workshops, 2 Public open houses, and numerous
small group/individual meetings have been held
Winter 2017/2018: Nearing completion of the AA and EA
January/February 2018: Selection of Preferred Alternative

6.A

Alternatives Analysis – Screening Results
• Alignments Carried Forward (Top 2)
o Center Running
o Center and New Asymmetrical
• Evaluation Summary (both alignments)
o Improves safety due to 10-ft sidewalks and reduction in
pedestrian/shuttle conflict points from 6 to 4
o Meets mobility needs for transit and pedestrians
o Creates space for public use
o Meet Community and Environment Criteria (Center Running
has greater impact to cultural resource and Center and New
Asymmetrical has improved, but less than 10-ft sidewalk on
narrow side)
Next Steps
• Design Detail/Pattern
• Materials
• Curb/ No Curb
Next Steps - Confirm Preferred Alternative
• Selection of Alignment
• Center and New Asymmetrical
• Selection of Materials
• Complete evaluation
• Agree on maintenance responsibilities
• Confirm maintenance agreement in Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA)
• RTD Board review and approval of IGA
Next Steps - Schedule
• 1st Quarter 2018: Select/Confirm Preferred Alternative (Alignment
and Materials); Complete AA
• 2nd Quarter 2018: Complete EA Document and Proceed with
Preliminary Engineering
• 3rd Quarter 2018: Receive Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI)
from FTA
Packet Pg. 6

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o

 Maintain mobility
Screening Criteria
 Economics and Cost
 Pedestrian Mobility
 Safety and Security
 Public Use Functionality
 Mobility
 Community and Environment

6.A

Ms. Vishwakarma summarized the many months of conversation and
explained that the design is conceptual and that these are ideas that have
been discussed with the other stakeholders to determine the design.
Operations, maintenance, materials, and roles of each in the partnership.
She reviewed the list of fundamental ideas and concerns surrounding the
project:
1. ADA compliance
2. Water Quality and Drainage Issues
3. Large Urban Tree Canopy the previous tress did not thrive
a. Issues growing, and taking out existing trees
4. Materials Issues
a. Color must be matched
b. The pattern
c. Lighting should remain (CCD have recently improved lighting)
5. Design Constraints
a. Electricity
b. Driverless vehicles
c. Rebuild infrastructure
d. Impact on Denver
e. Team –
i. Flexibility as to how space are used
ii. Moving store or cafes closer to transit
iii. Shifting how the mall is used
f. Shared street
g. Safety
6. Philosophy of the Project
a. RTD has tried to change the transit way to concrete.
b. For various reasons, the city’s preference is to build the transit
way in granite and the sidewalks will be in granite as well.
Since it is a city street, it is their decision.
c. This discussion only applies to the material that will be on top.
Any pavement surface that is built will have a concrete slab
underneath. In essence, we are only discussing how the
transit way will be built.
d. The granite topping would be built to match the current
pattern and color.
e. Recognize challenges
i. If we rebuild we can take care of infrastructure and
drainage issues.
ii. Procurement of the best material
iii. Expectations to have a better product
Packet Pg. 7

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• 4th Quarter 2018: Issue RFP and NTP for Final Design and
Construction
• 2019: Complete Final Design and Initiate Construction
• 2022: Complete Construction

iv. Anything built must be maintained
f. Maintenance
i. What is the appearance of concrete?
1. Can we match and up keep it to the standard
desired?
2. Time frame
3. Initial Cost
4. Maintenance cost
7. Finance for RTD
a. RTD has presented that RTD will only provide funding for what
it costs to install and maintain a concrete transit way
b. Denver funding has a time line which is compete by mid-2021
c. We have not determined who will run it, build it. Complete the
design. This is the first presentation to the board.
Curbs or no curbs –
 goals for the project and necessary mitigation to complete
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that these everything discussed tonight are ideas
and that there had not been any formal decisions regarding the design or the
project. She added that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) had
guidelines to follow for a design of this type and that the National
Association of City Transportation Officials (NACTO) are heavily involved in
providing guidelines for shared city street areas. Ms. Vishwakarma stated
that there are still many things to discuss, develop, and guideline to consider
in the design of the project. She added that until the environmental
assessment document has been reviewed that there are many ideas that
cannot be formalized, and then involve all the important groups to create the
design Ms. Vishwakarma explained that the project was currently estimated
to cost between $76 to $137 million, and that the City and County of
Denver(CCD) stated there was close to $96 million with RTD contributing
$15 million dollars. She added that the project group would like to do more
design and hire a Construction Manager/ General Contractor (CM/GC)
contractor, because all stakeholders wants to maintain involvement. She
added that in order to maintain transit on the mall during construction it is
estimated to take 3 and a half years to complete. Ms. Vishwakarma
concluded that the project is a daunting task but a great opportunity to work
with other agencies and fix issues that have plagued the area for many
years.
Ms. Wood provided a quick summary of the presentation slides, how the
design team was working with stakeholders, and described that agreements
between stakeholders would come back to the Board in the near future,
along with the environmental assessment, and then the Request for Proposal
(RFP) would be issued in the 4th Quarter of 2018.

Packet Pg. 8

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Director Archuleta asked about the what types of trees had originally been
planted and why they died, he also asked for a breakdown of the various
stakeholder funding.

Director Menten stated that the Board had agreed on concrete for the mall.
She added that she would agree to an Intergovernmental agreement that
stated that RTD would provide the $15 million for project and that the other
agencies would need to provide additional funding for the additional items
and would maintain the project indefinitely. She explained that she disagreed
with the other agencies desire to use granite based on cost to implement
and maintain. She stated that she believed that the people that use the
service do not notice the color and the aesthetics of the mall, that it is
important that it is safe, functional, and at minimal cost to build and
maintain. Lastly, Director Menten asked if the alignments, the median, and
the curbs decision would provide more safety.
Ms. Wood explained based on national studies and statistics that if you limit
opportunities for conflict between vehicles and pedestrians it is safer to
remove the median
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that malls with a median have a higher rate of
pedestrian and vehicle incidents, and that review of the last 10 years of
incidents the 16th Street mall shuttle has lower incidents than national
studies due to the fact that the mall operates at lower speeds and t shuttle
stops at every block. She added that the medians were intended to provide a
shelter for pedestrians however studies have shown that without the median
it would be that much safer.
Director Menten stated that she would like to hear from organizations
representing Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to ensure compliance
and that Ed Neuberg, Manager of ADA, be involved with the design process.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that the design team had included all of those
groups, and were aware of the issues the project must address.
Director Folska stated that cognitive whiplash – the City is troubled from the
granite yet they want to keep it as a material. Slippery and dodgy – she
requested the team ride the mall blindfolded and to take that into
consideration for the design. Safety is for sighted folks because they are
distracted and that should be considered.
Director Francone reminded the planning team that the board unanimously
agreed that granite should not be used. She added that she was
Packet Pg. 9

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. Vishwakarma explained she would have to investigate what types of
trees had been planted originally and the splits for the stakeholder funding.

6.A

uncomfortable with the unknown dollar amount, that the process had taken
a long time, and items haven’t been resolved.

Director Lubow asked for clarification on how the $15 million from RTD
would be utilized within the estimated $76 – $137 million budget and if that
estimate was accurate.
Ms. Vishwakarma confirmed that is the current estimate, and that the
proposal currently on the table was that RTD’s cost be limited to what it
would cost for a concrete transit way. She added that the team had
discussed a zero cost to RTD for maintenance with CCD and the response
had been that RTD buses cause the most damage to the transit way and
RTD would need to provide funding for maintenance.
Director Lubow stated that the difference in the cost for granite and
concrete was $1 million to $10,000 and that the board would not approve
that those maintenance costs.
Ms. Vishwakarma explained that the estimate was a much smaller than $1
million and that she could provide those details to the board.
Director Lubow stated that RTD has done the maintenance and it had cost
$1 million and why now would it be less.
General Manager Genova explained that the design is completely different
from maintenance standpoint and a lot of the previous maintenance issues
would be addressed. He added that staff would provide a summary memo
based on all the questions that were discussed, but that RTD cannot do
anything without completing the environmental process which would drive
the materials, and the timing of the project. General Manager Genova stated
that the process stalled at the alternative analysis process because a
consensus could not be reached regarding the materials, and that the
environmental process would determine much of the project.
Ms. Wood stated that she was not surprised to hear the issues with granite
but that the environmental process had determined much of the details
required to complete the project. She added that RTD had been trying to
consider all the viewpoints, develop a sustainable design, and work with all
the partners.
Director Lubow stated that the design team must develop a design that
addresses the maintenance costs because she wants any additional RTD
funding to go towards unfunded corridors.
Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. Vishwakarma stated she would send the cost estimates and addition
information to provide more clarity for the Board.

6.A

Director Walker asked if the pattern on the mall visible from the air, and
questioned the push for a tree canopy that would cover a good amount of
the design and be difficult to see through trees. He also asked if the
preferred alternative require the dog leg turns at either end of the mall.

Director Walker stated that if there were different construction methods to
utilize the granite that would lessen the maintenance costs. He asked what
the construction time frame would be if transit was stopped during
construction.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that the team had not studied that option of
removing transit activities during the complete construction duration.
Director Walker asked if the design must be on 16th Street.
Ms. Wood stated that to preserve cultural resource it must remain on the
16th street. She added that if there was an adverse effect for any changes to
the mall that reconstructing the design someplace else as a mitigation
method would be considered. Ms. Wood stated that it would be an adverse
effect to move it from where it was today.
Chair Tisdale requested in the supplemental memorandum to explain the role
of the board. He added that the issue of granite as a material was not a
viewpoint of the board but a directive.
Director Sisk stated that RTD was limited to the $15 million, and that the
project was really a CCD project.
Director Hoy asked for clarification on RTD cost if it included maintenance.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated these are decisions that would be made, and that
there are many RTD operations to be considered which would require an
agreement with CCD if they provided the maintenance.
Director Hoy stated the he was concerned with annual cost that after RTD
provided $15 million towards the project how much would it cost annually
to maintain.
General Manager Genova clarified that RTD had a certain amount available
for capital improvements that would be the RTD contribution. He explained
that a Draft IGA would include the RTD contribution towards capital and
maintenance. General Manager Genova stated that staff needs develop the
Draft IGA which would explain and address all of the details.
Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. Wood explained that the turns would be at a lesser degree than the
current turns.

6.A

Director Hoy suggested that if the cost is less he would support what CCD
wanted to design.

Director Anderson stated she agreed with Sisk
Director Folska asked if climate change and flooding was considered in the
design of drainage system. She added that she hopes the design anticipates
those issues that may occur in the future. Director Folska stated that
consideration of the people that use the transit and the conditions of the
area.
Director Walker asked if cost was thought of after determining the preferred
alternatives to the project.
Ms. Wood explained that considering addressing the need for the project and
address all needed changes were thought of first and then a process of
winnowing down to meet the costs requirements occurred.

• Special Services Recommendations March 2018
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Operations, explained that in addition to the evaluation of regular service
RTD evaluated the special service performance and need for changes the
need for special services. He stated that based on performance the need to
discontinue the RockiesRide bus service and RTD RACE service to the Susan
G. Komen Race for the Cure event.
Mr. Abel explained that the year Major League Baseball expanded to include
the Colorado Rockies in 1993 and RockiesRide service began that same
year. He added that the service operated with 12 routes to 23 Park-n-Rides
and ran approximately 175 buses to all home games. Mr. Abel explained
that over the years, the service has been reviewed and reduced to better
match ridership and that in 2017, the service was reduced to just two (2)
routes serving four (4) Park-n-Rides. Service operated on Opening Day, for
Saturday and Sunday games, and for fireworks games; most games
operated with six (6) buses, and that there was an average of 472 boardings
per game (approximately 236 RTD passengers). Mr. Able explained that
since the opening of Coors Field, the Colorado Rockies have allowed
RockiesRide buses to use the parking lot located on the corner of Wazee St.
and 22nd Ave. (Rockies-Lot) to board and de-board passengers and that in
November 2017, the Colorado Rockies notified RTD that the Rockies-Lot
would no longer be available. He stated that it was recommended that the
RockiesRide service be discontinued due to low ridership and parking issues.

Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova stated that the collective goal is to maintain a
robust transit way with lower maintenance cost

Mr. Abel explained that similarly, RTD offered special service to the Susan
G. Komen Race for the Cure event beginning October 3, 1999 and that the
service operated with 20 buses from three (3) Park-n-Rides. He stated that
attendance peaked at 65,350 in 2006 with Peak boardings for RACE Service
in 2005 (12,671 boardings) and has generally ranged between 8,000 and
12,000 from 2001 and 2011. Mr. Abel explained that in 2017, Race for the
Cure attendance dipped to 10,200 and RACE Service boardings dropped to
an all-time low of 786 (approximately 393 RTD passengers). He added that
as Race for the Cure participation has declined, RTD boardings have
followed suit and recommend that RACE Service to the Susan G. Komen
Race for the Cure event be discontinued due to low ridership and levels of
event participation that do not meet RTD service standards.
Director Broom asked if shuttle service to the stadium or the 16th Street mall
was considered as an alternative to these services.
Mr. Abel stated that RTD does expand the 16th Street mall shuttle service on
game days and that there is a direct pathway from Denver Union Station to
Coors
Director Broom asked if light rail had replaced the need for those services.
Mr. Abel explained that systemically RTD addresses the use of light rail over
special service and other bus service.
Director Hoy asked if the issue of people riding the light rail to an event or
into the city but then service not operating for the return ride home.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD had added a later trip on various lines to
address events. He added that RTD considers the magnitude of an event and
add cars to train service or later trains.
Director Sisk requested that operations attempt to gauge the need for
additional services and provide that service or alternative service
Mr. Abel stated that the services are being discontinued based on ridership.

• May 2018 Service Changes
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Development, explained that
there were a few highlights or notable changes that involved the rerouting of
service along US 36 and Sheridan station due to the North Metro study and
allowed the agency to move routes on congested roadways, and provide
service to areas that do not have service. He explained that they have made
changes due to increasing speed of service which ultimately lowers operating
costs.

Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Committee Vice Chair Williams stated that service changes affect everyone.
Director Hoy stated that some of the charges were brilliant as it wasn’t
reduced service but a route change which enable better boarding
opportunities and faster service.

Mr. Abel explained that RTD communicates with local agencies prior to any
changes in serves especially if there was to be an elimination of a route. He
added that there were several stakeholders that had specific people to work
with to regarding transportation changes and the RTD meets with those
groups regularly.
Chair Tisdale explained that a number of customers have contacted him
regarding the changes to the C and D Line. He stated that he had a number
of complaints from customers that used RTD services to the Denver Center
of Performing Arts (DCPA) complex for an event and then are unable to get
home from the event. Director Tisdale urged staff to work with this agency
and to make adjustments that include addressing this area, as we have one
of the largest performing arts communities in America.
Mr. Carter stated he had been working with the DCPA to provide service as
needed and that there will be adjustment as required due to magnitude of the
event and also the new L line to add service.
Director Menten asked what the negative and positive feedback had been
regarding the consolidation of stops.
Mr. Carter explained that most changes had been accepted but there has
been a couple of issues surrounding customers that have a difficult time
getting to the bus stops. He stated that RTD replaced those stops that had
better access for those customers.
Mr. Abel added that RTD tries to determine the best placement of the bus
stops and how to space the stops. He added that the new placement of
stops along Broadway eliminated two minutes from the route which equates
to substantial saving to the agency in bus and manpower resources.
Director Menten requested the current ridership and boarding per day for the
R Line.
Mr. Carter explained the previous ridership was approximately 4,600 per day
and has increased since the service changes to approximately 5,800 per day.
He added that the ridership per hour was 38.1 and was now 49.2 which is
Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow asked if RTD had been in touch with stakeholders prior to
making changes to routes.

6.A

not high in terms of light rail ridership. Mr. Carter explained that while the R
Line had seen an increase that the W Line has an average of 133 – 140
boardings per hour and that the R line was operating at a level of a bus route
like Route 105 which has an average of 42 boardings per hour. He added the
R Line increase had been only during peak time periods.
Director Menten asked if the W Line, which is still not running at optimized
ridership, had increased.

Director Menten asked about the -3.5 FTE under financial impact summary if
that meant there would less driver working overtime.
Mr. Abel stated that the impact of right sizing the service has resulted in the
agency needing approximately 3 ½ less drivers, but that because the agency
is not fully staffed (currently 132 employees below headcount) this does not
impact overtime or mandating.
Director Walker asked if the change to Route 27 would eliminate the
duplication of the trolley route.
Mr. Carter explained that this change saved an entire bus which accounts for
one of the 3 ½ less bus drivers needed for operating.
Director Solano asked about Route 62 and what was Commerce City’s
response to the service change.
Mr. Carter explained that based on RTD standards the agency could have
eliminated the route but through meetings with Commerce City agreed on the
new schedule.
Director Solano asked what were the boardings per hour for the route.
Mr. Carter stated he could not accurately give that information without
confirming but thought that it was 19 per hour during the peak times and
that and single digits at mid-day.
Director Francone asked if Mr. Carter had an update to a constituent
complaint.
Mr. Carter explained that he would prefer to speak directly to the constituent.
He explained that the constituent had complained about the change in the C
Line from three-car trains to two-car trains and that he had seen a D Line
Packet Pg. 15

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Carter stated that RTD is pleased with the W Line increase from 98 to
133 boardings per day after the last service revisions.

6.A

train with more cars. Mr. Carter explained that all of the D Line had changed
to all four-car trains and that he would answer that constituent directly.
Director Folska asked for an update on the four square mile and safety in
Parker.

Mr. Abel stated that Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) would
be responsible for the lighting because Parker Road is a state highway.
Director Folska asked about the status of communication regarding
partnership with other agencies to improve R Line ridership.
General Manger Genova stated that RTD had met with the City of Aurora’s
communications to discuss systems to put into place to improve ridership.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, explained that
RTD had submitted a marketing and a public relations plan to the City of
Aurora and are expected to hear a response by the end of January.
Director Folska asked if RTD had included the Aurora Economic Development
Council in the discussions and if there had been a budget allocated for the
communication effort.
Mr. Reed stated that they had been included and that he would send the
budget to the board office.
Mr. Abel stated that there was an email question from the directors attending
remotely regarding the PUC authorization for testing and if the G line would
open with the May 2018 service changes. He explained that until RTD had
results from the testing G Line that could not be determined. He added that
RTD has Plan A and Plan B on the opening date depending on all of the
results of the PUC hearing and the testing.
General Manager Genova stated that there was still the PUC process to
complete. The next step in the PUC was for the hearing to be scheduled. He
added that the hearing schedule would drive the opening date.

• 2017 Securement Area Issues Data Analysis
Mr. Abel stated summarized the report and explained that RTD and the
Colorado Cross Disability Association (CCDC) entered into a joint Settlement
Agreement in March of 2014 in an effort to resolve issues related to
availability of the securement area on board RTD buses for passengers who
Packet Pg. 16

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Carter explained that there had been a concern regarding lighting along
Parker Road and stop locations. He stated that the East team has been in
contact with the agencies to determine responsibility for the issue.

6.A

use mobility aids. One of the requirements of the Settlement Agreement was
for RTD to adopt a policy to ensure individuals who use mobility aids,
including wheelchairs, have equal access to its buses and to the securement
area.

• Lost Service Hours 1 23 18

Mr. Abel stated that the next items were all quarterly reports that were
detailed in the Board report as an update.
The Directors had no additional comments.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 3rd Quarter 2017
• Access-a-Ride/Cab 2017 3rd Quarter Report
• Special Services 3rd Qtr Report
• 2017 3rd Quarter Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring
• 2017 3rd Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
• Third Quarter Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 13, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Williams adjourned the meeting at 7:52 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel summarized the lost service hours report for the month of December
2017 stating we lost 626 service hours compared to 586 in December 2016.
He added that in terms year to date the agency was unable to meet service
commitment by 6200 hours compared to 5100 hours in 2016 which is
approximately ten percent increase. He added that while the agency has
dropped hours it had provided 99.5 percent of service in 2017.

6.B

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, PhD, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, January 23, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Ken Mihalik
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker
Kate Williams
Staff Present:

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I
Committee Chair
Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D
Director, District A

Status
Absent
Present
Present
Absent
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
7:53 PM
7:53 PM
4:04 PM
7:53 PM
7:53 PM
7:53 PM
7:53 PM
7:53 PM
4:04 PM
7:53 PM
7:53 PM
7:53 PM
7:54 PM

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Nicole Carey, Jessie
Carter, Terry Emmons, Raleigh Elstun, David Genova, Bob Grado, Chris
Harmon, John Hersey, Pamela Kachka, Larry Kier, Doug MacLeod, Brian
Packet Pg. 18

6.B

Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader,
Daniel Menter, Michael Porter, Scott Reed, Ruth Seleske, Jannette Scarpino,
Luke Sinclare, Greg Smith, Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman,
Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood,
Christina Zazueta
Others Present:

Kristie Brown, Steve Butler, Brian Cassidy, Bar Chadwick, Gary Forbes, Dr.
William Gross, Lynn Guissinger, Anne Herzenberg, Heather Maresh, Jason
McIntosh, Darla Ortiz, Siger Petraic, M. Scott Ramming, Dana Saors, John
Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

• Salaried Trustee Appointments
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Scott Reed and
Derrick Black, to terms expiring 12/31/2020 as trustees for the Salaried Employee
Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the January 30, 2018 Board Meeting.
Director Francone seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, said that Scott Reed, Assistant
General Manager of Communications, and Derrick Black, Associate
General Counsel, had previously served as trustees and that their
appointments had expired on December 31, 2017. She noted that a
provision in the original appointment stated that appointees may continue
to serve after the expiration of their term, so long as the appoints served
satisfactorily and RTD contributed toward their education as trustees.
She said both appointees had served well and that, upon reappointment,
their terms would expire in 2020.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
SECONDER: Tina Francone, Director, District N
AYES:
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
REMOTE:
Lorraine Anderson,
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Project Carryforward for SmartCard Stored Value
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $1,919,147 from the operating
reserve to the Information Technology Base System capital project budget, effective
Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

B. Recommended Actions

6.B

January 1, 2018, to allow for the completion of the SmartCard Stored Value
Implementation Project (#10322) that was not completed in 2017. The operating
reserve will be replenished in the 2018 Amended Budget with the funds that were not
spent on this project in 2017.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the January 30, 2018 Board Meeting.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop said that the SmartCard project was among the
carryforward projects that had inadvertently been overlooked at the end
of 2017. She said the recommended action would allow the 2017 funding
for the project to roll forward to 2018.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Bob Broom, Director, District F
SECONDER: Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
AYES:
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
REMOTE:
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

Packet Pg. 20

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

6.B

C. Updates
Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel, stated that he had worked team of Leadership
Academy representatives, whose project was to revise the RTD Code of Ethics. That
team included:
 Todd Kier, Supervisor of Light Rail Vehicle Maintenance;
 Raleigh Elstun, Group II Supervisor;
 Karl Shoemaker, General Superintendent of Infrastructure;
 Cory Petzinger, Light Rail Maintenance of Way Supervisor, and
 Pam Kachka, the group’s sponsor and member of the Education, Development,
and Training department.
Mr. Shoemaker said that the team’s task was to revise the code, which was adopted in its
current form in 2003 and only applied to conduct pertaining to procurement activities. He
noted that the vast majority of RTD employees were not covered and that the new unified
code applied to all RTD employees and Board Members. He said the group reviewed
FTA guidelines as a basis for formulating the revised code.
Mr. Elstun said that the team solicited input from RTD departments, stakeholders, and
other agencies in determining which needs and concerns to address, such as de minimis
gift guidelines. He encouraged the Board to adopt the revised code as soon as possible.
Director Menten asked how many hours the team had put in to the project.
Mr. Shoemaker said that the team met for two hours each week for the majority of the
year and continued their work during off hours.
Mr. Elstun added that the team also conducted interviews lasting an hour or longer with
members of each department.
Director Menten asked whether there was a fifth person on the team.
Mr. Shoemaker noted that Ms. Kachka also attended the meetings, in addition to Mr.
Asphaug, who he said gave considerable assistance.
Director Menten said she appreciated the group’s work on such a basic, foundational
product the purpose of which was to keep the agency on the straight and narrow.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked who on the Board of Directors the team had interviewed.
Mr. Asphaug said that he had spoken with former Chair Hoy.
Director Lubow noted that the language in the proposal stated that the Senior Leadership
Team (SLT) would approve any policies and procedures.

Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• RTD Code of Ethics

6.B

Director Lubow said that the wording about policies being approved by SLT was
concerning to her. She said she liked that the revised code was not burdened with so
many examples. She noted that the current code contained language about impartiality,
which she found to be a useful concept.
Mr. Asphaug said the concept was still covered under the topic of integrity.
Director Menten noted that the revised code would be voted on by the Board at a later
date.
Mr. Asphaug said that he would make sure that specific references to impartiality were
included. Regarding the language about SLT’s approval of policies, he said that it would
be made clear that the Board would approve policy and that staff would issue explanatory
procedures.
Director Francone commented that she had the pleasure of a preview of the revised code
during the Leadership Academy graduation.
Director Broom asked if the agency had bonded individuals.
Mr. Asphaug responded that RTD was self-insured and said that the Directors themselves
were bonded in the amount of $10,000 pursuant to state statutory requirements. He stated
that the agency also carried errors and omissions insurance.
Director Sisk said that influence peddling was one area in which he which he wanted to
see some tightening, particularly when Directors attempt to influence the selection of
contractors or subcontractors.
Chair Tisdale stated that he was aware of the challenges involved in trying to draft a code
of ethics as a result of having spent time on a Supreme Court ethics panel.
Director Menten stated that the current code did not do enough to place restrictions on
contractors in cases where employees leave the agency to work for the contractor after
being involved with the selection of the contractor during the solicitation process.
Mr. Asphaug stated that had been a frustration of his in the current code. He said the
previous was simplistic and that the revised code granted more flexibility, allowing the
agency to avoid even the appearance of impropriety. He said the key was disclosure and
that employees were not allowed to work for a contractor within a 12-month period
Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Asphaug said that the revised code would be approved by the Board. He clarified that
the previous version of the code contained numerous ethical questions as examples,
which were moved out of the revised code and into separate procedural document. He
said that any new procedures would be approved more easily by SLT, as opposed to
changes to the code itself. He noted that the team concluded that the current code was too
lengthy and filled with examples that may or may not apply in a given situation. He said
the revised code was intended to be simple and that the more granular procedural
guidelines would be reviewed by SLT.

6.B

following their departure from a position at RTD in which the employees had influence in
the procurement process in which the contractor was selected. He said the policy created
more work for the agency but provided better assurance and integrity.

Mr. Asphaug said he would be uncomfortable going into detail in the committee setting
but did note that the procurement department is very careful. He said the procurement
staff would not even accept a cup of coffee from a prospective contractor to avoid any
appearance of impropriety.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked how ethics provisions are enforced.
Mr. Asphaug Rolf said that Directors were elected officials and should speak with him
regarding ethics questions. He said that employees could be subject to disciplinary action
up to and including termination.
Director Folska, Ph.D., clarified that she was referring to employees who had left RTD to
work for a contractor as described in the earlier scenario.
Mr. Asphaug said that little could be done to an employee once the employee has left
employment with RTD.
Director Lubow again asked which portion of the revised code covered the appearance of
impropriety. She said she could speak with Mr. Asphaug offline.
Mr. Asphaug said that he would provide the procedural documents to the Board as well.

• SmartCard Project Update
Ms. McKillop said that the Board Report included statistics on mobile ticketing, survey
responses and noted that a survey of mobile ticketing app users resulted in scores ranging
from 4.3 to 4.6 out of 5 for various facets of the app, which was notable for a newly
released product. She noted that 70% of users responded that they had already
recommended the app to someone else and that 66% of users were not using the app for
commuting. She said her department was still trying to digest the data from the survey.
She noted that the app experienced a few glitches at launch that were quickly fixed. She
said that the project was moving ahead with additional improvements in 2018, such as a
ticket wallet and additional fare enforcement features.
Director Williams said that the mobile ticketing app was a hot topic of conversation in
the groups with which she regularly engaged.
Director Broom asked if a family could use the app to purchase tickets for multiple
family members.

Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten stated that larger contractors often have many divisions and noted that
the employee in question could potentially leave RTD to work for a different wing of the
contractor’s company. She asked how many such uncomfortable instances in the past 10
years Mr. Asphaug had encountered.

6.B

Tonya Anderson responded that the mobile ticketing app was different from the
SmartCard in that it allowed for the purchase of both full fare and discount fare tickets.
She said that an entire family could ride with tickets purchased on one app.
Ms. McKillop added that the app also allowed for future capabilities, which the agency
was just starting to tap into.

Ms. Anderson said that regional and local fares were available through the app and that a
second survey would be conducted regarding the features customers would like to see
added in the future.
Director Sisk said that he would like to be able to purchase tickets for the Route FF
buses.
Ms. McKillop said that the Pass Program Working Group findings would be taken into
consideration, as well as the upcoming fare changes.

• November 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, said that tax reporting was artificially low in the month of
November due to rescinded tax filings from a utility, which were initially filed in
correctly. He said the utility would resubmit the tax filings but noted that RTD may not
receive the amount anticipated during the initial erroneous filing because the taxes may
have been collected outside of the district.
Director Menten said the agency experienced a bump in internet sales taxes in October
and another in November from internet taxes. She said the agency would hopefully see
another bump from Christmas sales, even though retailers had not reported robust sales.
Mr. MacLeod said that prior to October 2017 the agency received an average of $600,000
per month in internet sales. He said that that $1.3 million in internet sales taxes were
collected in October and $973,000 were collected in November. He said it was difficult to
determine the cause for the jump but said it would be interesting to see what would
happen in the December report.
Ms. McKillop noted that 2017 was the first full year for individual online sales reporting
by taxpayers. She said that the Colorado Department of Revenue was now able to use the
enforcement mechanism of tax audits to ensure compliance.

• 3rd Quarter Performance Measure Report
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, presented an
analysis of key performance indicators. She said that the figures, such as on-time
performance and response time, were essentially stable compared to the second quarter of
2017. She noted that ridership was down year-over-year but had improved slightly over
the second quarter. She stated that fare revenue had increased year-over-year, as had
operator and mechanic vacancies.
Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Sisk asked when the express pass would be available on the mobile ticketing
app.

6.B

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, said that 11% percent of the agency’s bus service was provided by employees
working on their days off, which he said was not sustainable. He said the Board would
hear future discussions about right-sizing the agency’s service, making sure the agency
did not overpromise underdeliver, determining an appropriate wage for operators, and
determining which candidates for employment are the best fit for the positions. He said
he did not see the agency ending these issues in the near future and noted that over half of
the agency’s employees worked on their days off.

Mr. Abel said that RTD is blessed to have committed workforce and that the agency owes
it to them to not require such a commitment from operators in the future.
Director Archuleta asked why employee recruitment signs have not been posted in
Spanish.
Mr. Abel responded that postings have at times appeared in Spanish and that he would
share the suggestion with the Human Resources department.
Director Archuleta added that 250,000 Latinos who speak only Spanish reside in the
Denver metro area.
Mr. Abel said that was a great recommendation and noted RTD had been employer of
choice for Denver’s Hispanic community for some time.
‘
Director Archuleta asked what the agency was doing in union negotiations.
Mr. Abel said that he could not speak to that.
General Manager Genova said that wages have been flat and the agency had a
constrained budget. He said he anticipated seeing some significant movement.
Director Archuleta said that he heard the union would strike.
General Manager Genova Dave responded that a strike was something both sides wanted
to avoid. He said both sides were working well with federal mediator and that there were
several sessions left before reaching a conclusion.
Director Broom said that trucking companies were having a difficult time recruiting
employees as a result of the improved economy. He said that one of the main complaints
of over-the-road coach operators was that they were away from home a lot. He asked
whether the agency could convert former truck drivers to bus operators.
Mr. Abel said that RTD had recruited truck drivers in the past and stated that former boss
felt that it was easier to teach someone to drive a big vehicle than to be customer-service
oriented. He said that the psychology of over the road coach operator was one of not
Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Williams said RTD should make it known to the world that the agency’s
employees are people who care about providing service to the riders.

6.B

having to deal with anyone else. He said that the agency needed operators with customer
service skills.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska, Ph.D., offered her congratulations to Director Francone on being named as
Jefferson County Commissioner.
Director Francone thanked everyone and stated that her swearing in would be held at 3:00 p.m. on
February 6, 2018, at the Jefferson County Courts and Administration Building in Golden.
Committee Chair Menten noted that Director Mihalik would take over as Chair for the following
committee meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 13, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:53 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 23, 2018 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop said that the Board would see the agency rolling out a lot of initiatives in
the next few months. She reiterated that the agency would be more selective in
determining which candidates were more fit for the positions. She said that the problem
in the past was that the employees would leave immediately after being trained. She said
there was also a retention problem and that employees were concerned with quality of life
issues and not just money. She said that General Manager Genova and Andrew Gale, the
new Senior Manager of Human Resources, were working on human resources projects
that offered a different approach to what the agency had been doing.

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

6.C

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, PhD, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
January 25, 2018 at 12:00 PM
I.

II.

Call to Order
Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 12:05 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tisdale, 1st Vice Chair Menten,
2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler (via phone)
Secretary Folska, Ph.D., Treasurer
Lubow (via phone, arrived late)

Others present:

Dave Genova, General Manager,
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager
of the Board Office, and John McKay,
Board Office Administrator

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Tisdale reviewed the January Board Meeting agenda. He said that the first
substantive order of business was the Pledge of Allegiance. After having spoken
with Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, he said that he
would propose the possibility of inviting children to lead the pledge of allegiance.
He said he had proposed a similar idea to the Cherry Hills Village City Council,
which did not incorporate the pledge of allegiance into its proceedings. He
suggested that the Board would bring in Boy Scout and Girl Scout Troops, science
clubs, sports teams, and other youth organizations, which would also lead to
wonderful photo opportunities to show the standing before the dais. He said that,
in the event of an overwhelming response from the public, the Board could
accommodate as many as 20 to 30 children in the well at a time.
Director Folska, Ph.D., supported the idea and said that allowing children to lead
the pledge would serve a huge purpose in reminding the Directors who they work
for. She said she would tie the concept with having a youth advisory council akin

Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

6.C

to the Citizens Advisory Council (CAC). She stated that the City of Centennial had
such an entity and the participants offered useful suggestions. She said the
logistics would still have to be worked out.
Director Menten said that she was not interested in photo opportunities.

Director Menten stated that the Board’s first priority was the conduct of business
but said she would be fine with the change.
Chair Tisdale said that for the first meeting the Board could find staff members
from RTD to bring in their children, which would also have the benefits of creating
strong positive relationships with staff.
Director Deadwyler acknowledged her agreement.
Chair Tisdale said the idea was not to impose a heavy burden on staff and
suggested that, after the first time, inquiries would come in from other people.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that it might be useful to talk to Georgann Van Gemert,
Marketing Account Executive or Steve Reilly, Marketing Communications Manager,
because of their existing relationships with middle schools.
Director Menten said that she would request that this change not generate any
additional costs for the agency.
Chair Tisdale said that this proposal would only present an opportunity for children
and their parents to show up and for the parents to take photographs. As for staff
time, he said that the list of interested participants. Word spreads, it populates
itself.
General Manager Genova said that he mentioned in the Senior Leadership Team
(SLT) meeting that the Chair would be suggesting this proposal. He mentioned that
the process would have to be open to everyone and that both Ms. McManus and
Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel, would be working on the guidelines.
Chair Tisdale stated the more participants, the merrier.

Packet Pg. 28

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Tisdale said the Board would not invite children just for the photo
opportunity, but that would be another benefit.

6.C

Director Folska, Ph.D., noted that Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager
of Capital Programs, was involved with scouting. She said that Lisa Truong Nguyen
was a Girl Scouts coordinator and the Women’s Transportation Seminar (WTS) was
very supportive.

Director Folska, Ph.D., mentioned that Cathy Noon, former Mayor of Centennial,
had instituted their youth advisory council. She agreed that instituting an open
process was an excellent idea.
Chair Tisdale said that the Board would be surprised by how quickly the entire
process would take care of itself. He also noted that there were five retirees for the
month of January.
Director Folska, Ph.D., jokingly said that the agency should not let operators retire.
General Manager Genova said that Greg Pennington, General Superintendent for
Infrastructure and employee of 29 years, was retiring. He said that Mr.
Pennington’s position had already been backfilled. He noted that Timothy Aguilar,
Lead Dispatcher, was also retiring after 29 years and would be missed as well.
Chair Tisdale said that the retiree awards were a great thing to share. He said the
duration of some of the employees was impactful and that honoring the retirees
was a great opportunity for outreach for current and former staff and the public and
showed that RTD is a great place to work.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether the agency mentions during recruitment
efforts that RTD employees often work for the agency for a long time.
General Manager Genova said that was mentioned and that there was opportunity
for advancement.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that it was almost unheard of anymore for employees
to stay with one company for so long
General Manager Genova said he had been with RTD for 24 years as of that month
and that he was proud of his years of service.

Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Tisdale said that inviting children to lead the pledge would them the
opportunity to understand more about RTD.

6.C

Chair Tisdale said that the duration of employees sent an incredible message. He
noted the next section of the agenda was for public participation and noted that
speakers are limited to three minutes.

Chair Tisdale said that not only those people but others could use extra time and
that the Board should always operate on the rule of reason, under which a person
could be given extra time should the circumstances require. He said that the rule of
reason would not be intended to be applied with favoritism for one group over
another, but rather the Board could accommodate a person when necessary. He
asked whether there were any updates on the committee reports.
Ms. McManus said that there were no changes.
Chair Tisdale asked whether Director Francone should be offered a chance to speak
regarding the update to the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee.
Ms. McManus agreed that she should.
Chair Tisdale moved on to the adoption of the Special Board Meeting Minutes and
then to the sections regarding the Chair’s report and the General Manager’s report.
He said that, instead of asking the Chair or General Manager to recite a written
report in committee packet, the Board could consider having the Chair and General
Manager indicate that the reports were in the materials and that they would
highlight certain pertinent topics, such as important meetings or other matters that
deserved special attention, and then open themselves up for questions. He
suggested that such a change would be a better use of the Board’s time.
Director Menten said that change would be fine. She said that the report could be
more focused on upcoming rather than past events, particularly for the Chair’s
Report. She said that the full recital of events might be nice for a few of the
attendees but noted that the events were posted on the website.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that the General Manager’s reports were thorough but
said it would be helpful to hear about major events on certain corridors and
important happenings and meetings, rather than more pedestrian events.

Packet Pg. 30

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that persons with disabilities and persons who need
interpreters could require additional time and should be given an additional 90
seconds.

6.C

General Manager Genova said that SLT had contemplated the same change,
specifically listing fewer events and covering the most pertinent topics.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that the Donnell Kay Foundation was the source of the
rumor. She said she was uncomfortable in the past when the Chair would announce
her attendance at future events. She said she wanted people to know about the
town halls she would attend but noted that she felt awkward having her schedule
for the week laid out for the public.
Chair Tisdale said that sharing upcoming events during the course of a meeting did
not serve any particular purpose, unless the event was a major occasion.
Director Menten said that she liked that the upcoming events were posted online.
She said that, with the publishing of video recordings of meetings soon to take
place, that the public would be able to see the Board’s proceedings sooner than
they would have otherwise been able to access the minutes.
Folska, Ph.D., said that she did not find it necessary to announce that she was
scheduled to appear at a particular dinner.
Chair Tisdale said that it may be pertinent to announce certain meetings but noted
that routine matters were available on the two-week calendar.
Ms. McManus noted that the public two-week calendar did not specify which
Directors would attend events and said that the Chair’s Report and the General
Manager’s Report were not included on the web portal.
Chair Tisdale said that the Directors see the attendance listed.

Packet Pg. 31

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Tisdale said that others he had spoken to echoed those thoughts. He said, for
example, that the Chair could address certain important topics such as the rumor
that the Metro Mayors’ Caucus (MMC) was proposing that the RTD Board of
Directors should change from an elected board to an appointed board. He said that
the Chair could use the Chair’s Report as an opportunity to say there was no truth
to that rumor and to help put things in context. He noted that some Directors like
to hear their names called for having attended certain events and suggested that
the Chair could announce how many events a given Director had attended during
the course of a month.

6.C

Ms. McManus replied that the Board Office maintains two separate calendars, one
for the public and one listing the attendance of Directors, because previous
Directors did not want the public to know where they would be.
General Manager Genova reiterated that the agency did not publicize where
Directors would be.

Chair Tisdale said he thought it would be helpful to show how many appearances
at events Directors had made but said that going through the recitation of events
did not serve a particularly substantive purpose. He said that emphasizing
engagement, on the other hand, and giving Directors an opportunity to ask
questions did serve a valid purpose. He said the Board could try the more
abbreviated format in respect of everyone’s time, with the possibility of making
changes later.
Director Deadwyler agreed.
Ms. McManus asked whether the Chair’s Report and General Manager’s Report and
General Manager’s Report should be included in the packet.
Chair Tisdale agreed.
Ms. McManus asked Director Folska, Ph.D. whether she was fine with the public
knowing where she would be, given that the two-week calendar included in the
packet would show Directors’ attendance at future events.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said she thought the agreement was to not include every
detail.
Ms. McManus said she wanted Director Folska, Ph.D., to be comfortable with the
outcome.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that events were typically posted only when three or
more Directors attended.
Director Menten said that she did not report her attendance at meetings to the
Board Office. She said she was comfortable with letting the public know where she
was going or where she had been.

Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McManus added that the portion of the Chair’s Report detailing which Directors
attended public events was added to show the public how active the board was.

6.C

Ms. McManus noted that the events attended by Directors were all contained in the
two-week calendar and asked if the decision was to simply publish the version of
the two-week calendar that showed which events Directors would attend.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked the Chair to confirm that he would not simply read
the two-week calendar.

Director Menten clarified that the full calendar would be posted on the internet.
Director Deadwyler agreed.
Director Menten said that producing one less calendar would be easier.
Chair Tisdale asked whether he was right in thinking that the two-week calendar
was prospective rather than retrospective. He said he was not suggesting that
there be a retrospective discussion at the Board Meeting
Ms. McManus replied that the two-week calendar is only a snapshot of events.
Chair Tisdale finished reviewing the agenda and asked if anyone had questions.
Motion:

Chair Tisdale made the motion to approve
moving the January 30th, 2018 Board agenda to
the full Board.
Director Folska, Ph.D., seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0
opposed.

Other Matters
Chair Tisdale said that he wanted to speak to two matters, the first relative to the
Board-only retreat. He said that he wanted to make sure that the members of the
Executive Committee would reach out to the other Directors to attend and
participate. He said that the retreat was a terrific opportunity. He also mentioned
that, for the facilitator for the joint Board/SLT retreat, Director Menten, Ms.
McManus and he would meet to go over responses to the Request for Proposals

Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Tisdale replied that was not his intention.

6.C

(RFP). He suggested that another Director who was not on the Executive
Committee should be invited to attend as well in order to add another set of eyes.

Chair Tisdale said he and Ms. McManus had spoken with Mr. Widner earlier that
week. Chair Tisdale said he had known Mr. Widner for 25 years and stated that Mr.
Widner was an expert in area of local government meetings. He said Mr. Widner
would not review Robert’s Rules or anything even close. He said he would speak to
his own experience and his accumulation of best practices for effective meetings in
order to set the table for the discussion with Ligia Velazquez, Commissioner from
the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS).
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that her impression of the Board-only retreat was that
the Directors would discuss issues important to each member, so as to compile a
list of issues to take to the joint Board/SLT retreat. She said she did not see where
Mr. Widner or any facilitator would fit in to the agenda and that other Directors did
not want to attend for that reason. She said the retreat should be a brainstorming
session, otherwise certain other Directors would not come.
Chair Tisdale said that brainstorming ideas was the reason for the flip chart, which
nearly all of the Directors had completed. He said there were two parts of chart of
the chart, one asking how the Board could be more effective and one asking for
two topics the Directors wanted to address during the Board-only retreat. He said
that Mr. Widner’s role would be to set up the second question, which would help
the Directors address those issues and in turn assist and facilitate the Directors’
discussion with Ms. Velazquez. He noted that, even though there are 15 Directors,
who were each given the opportunity to suggest two topics of conversation, there
were really only a few topics that rose to the top among everyone’s concerns. He
said that Mr. Widner’s participation would assist with creating a productive
discussion.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that was what felt redundant. She said that people
wanted to come to be productive and that it was clear to her they were not
interested in Mr. Widner’s participation.

Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska, Ph.D. recommended Director Archuleta. Regarding the Board-only
retreat, she said she had no problem reaching out to the other Directors but
mentioned that the Directors did not want to attend only to hear about Robert’s
Rules of Order. She asked what role Centennial City Attorney Bob Widner would
play.

6.C

Director Menten said that she also did not want Mr. Widner’s participation and that
she was not the only one.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether Mr. Widner could participate in the joint
Board/SLT retreat instead.
Chair Tisdale said that could be a consideration. He said he would still like to
discuss the possibility of the potential benefits of taking 30 minutes out of the
Board retreat.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that Mr. Widner could perhaps facilitate the joint
Board/SLT retreat. She said the previous facilitator had become dismissive, and
patronizing. She said the Board should look at someone with a more sophisticated
strategy. He said the Executive Committee could vote on whether Mr. Widner
would remain as part of the program or not.
Chair Tisdale said that Director Folska, Ph.D., had accurately described the
conversation he and Ms. McManus had with Mr. Widner, in that Board was not
interested in having someone come and condescend to them considering that he
would be speaking to people who were educated in the issues and were working
well as a board. He said Mr. Widner’s participation was not intended to be anything
other than sharing new information and insights from his professional training that
might be of benefit. He guaranteed Mr. Widner would not merely repeat the obvious
but would instead engage the Directors by sharing his experience.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked again whether, as a compromise, Mr. Widner could be
considered instead for the role of facilitator for the joint Board/SLT retreat.
Director Menten said that the initial discussion about a Board-only retreat came
from two different sources, former Chair Hoy, who was working on one type of
retreat, and Director Lubow, who was interested in a brainstorming session. She
said the intent of the retreat was never to discuss Board effectiveness and that
none of the Directors were new to being on a Board. Specifically, she said that
Director Archuleta and others were not interested in attending.

Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Tisdale said that the question could be posed to the full Board at the Board
Meeting on the following Tuesday but suggested that the Directors could all benefit
from a periodic reminder of both the principles Mr. Widner would speak to and of
the notion that they should be open to new ideas.

6.C

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that Board members had stated that they did not want
to have a presentation on Board effectiveness and suggested that the retreat be
held as intended.
Chair Tisdale asked if Ms. McManus had any insights she would like to share as a
result of the discussion.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that Ms. Velazquez could continue to do what she had
planned.
Chair Tisdale said that he understood there was consternation over Mr. Widner’s
participation. He said he may not have done an adequate job of expressing what
Mr. Widner understood his role to be. He said that he and Ms. McManus had
spoken with him about incorporating the Board’s thoughts into his presentation. He
asked Director Deadwyler whether she had any concerns about Mr. Widner’s
participation.
Director Deadwyler said she did have concerns.
Chair Tisdale suggested that the question of Mr. Widner’s participation be held over
until the “other matters” section of the Board meeting. He said that out of respect
for Mr. Widner he wanted to give him enough notice and that he did not feel
comfortable removing Mr. Widner from the Board retreat agenda without input from
the full Board.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether the Executive Committee could just take a
vote.
Chair Tisdale said that he did not want the sense of the Board to be that the
Executive Committee acted unilaterally at its first meeting and that he wanted the
Directors to work collaboratively.
Director Menten said she would be fine with a vote because she suspected the
majority of the Board did not want Mr. Widner to participate.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said the Directors had made their thoughts known.

Packet Pg. 36

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McManus said that Ms. Velazquez would have to be notified that she would
now be responsible for leading the entire retreat.

6.C

Chair Tisdale responded that his hesitancy was that the question of Mr. Widner’s
participation had already been put to the Board as a whole.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether open discussion was the best use of the
Board’s time.

Ms. McManus said that, if the Directors did not want to have the issue discussed in
a public forum, the polling could be done as the Board did with other events.
Chair Tisdale said that he and Ms. McManus would work on a poll that would be
due by close of business the following day.
Director Folska, Ph.D., agreed that polling was a good suggestion.
Director Folska asked what matter Director Walker had wanted to discuss with the
Executive Committee.
Chair Tisdale said he did not know and that Director Walker may address the
Executive Committee at another time. He said he was glad the committee decided
to conduct the polling for Mr. Widner’s participation.
Director Menten asked who else would attend the retreat.
Chair Tisdale said that Ms. McManus and John McKay, Board Office Administrator,
would attend. He said that the meeting would be public and that anyone could
come. He said there was a question as to whether General Manager Genova should
attend and noted he had not been asked to participate, though he was welcome as
anyone else.
Director Menten asked whether General Manager Genova was planning on
attending.
General Manager Genova said he was not unless the Board asked him to attend.
Director Menten said the Directors would prefer to have their own time to
themselves and asked whether the retreat would end by noon.

Packet Pg. 37

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler agreed that polling the full Board would be fair.

6.C

Chair Tisdale said yes but noted the Directors could stay longer if there was more
to say. He said the retreat would be held in Conference Room A.
Ms. McManus noted that Conference Rooms B and C were available if the Directors
needed breakout room.

Chair Tisdale said that the meeting would need to be recorded and that neither Ms.
McManus or Mr. McKay would participate. He said their presence was a matter of
logistics for recording of information as statutorily mandated for public meetings.
Director Deadwyler said that two people should not have to give up their
Saturdays.
Chair Tisdale said that it was an imposition the Board was stuck with.
Director Deadwyler said she did not buy his answer.
Chair Tisdale said he did not know whether there was any way around it. He said
staff needed to be there to provide service for public meeting.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that Director Deadwyler’s concern was for having two
staff members in attendance.
Chair Tisdale said the question of having one or two staff members present was
one he would leave to staff.
Ms. McManus said she would prefer two staff members to attend because of the
breadth of the responsibilities required.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that made sense and that the job would be too much
for one person because of the logistics involved. She said the person taking notes
should focus on that task.
Ms. McManus said staff did not take verbatim meetings and that Mr. McKay would
report the major points, from which Ms. Velazquez would create an executive
summary.

Packet Pg. 38

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler asked why both Ms. McManus and Mr. McKay would need to
attend.

6.C

Chair Tisdale said that it was his view that the Board should rely on staff’s best
judgment.
Director Deadwyler said she was fine if two staff members were required to attend.

Ms. McManus said that there were two RFPs, one which closed the previous day
and one which would close that week. She said there would be a review of the
submittals once the second RPF closed. She said Communications had been
working to video record the meetings but noted that no Communications staff
resources were identified as being able to record following the January 30, 2018,
meeting.
Director Menten said that she received a letter from State Representatives Jonathan
Singer and Kevin Van Winkle, who serve on the Colorado Channel Advisory Board
(CCAB), which encouraged the Board to consider the Open Media Foundation
(OMF) for its recording needs. She said Representative Van Winkle indicated OMF’s
services would be offered for little or no cost.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether OMF’s videos were closed captioned.
Director Menten responded that they were captioned through Google’s services.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that she was aware of a software license that would
offer close captioning services for $500 per year.
Chair Tisdale asked whether the group was included in the RFP.
Ms. McManus said they were aware of the RFP because Mr. McKay let them know
when it would hit the street.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked why there were two RFPs.
Ms. McManus said that one RFP would cover video operations and one would cover
closed captioning.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that the video vendor should have access to the
captioning software she had mentioned.

Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked for an update on the recently released video RFP.

6.C

Chair Tisdale asked which RFP had already closed.
Ms. McManus said that the RFP for video operation was closed.

Mr. McKay stated that the services offered for free or low-cost by OMF would
cover online hosting of video files, rather than video camera operation, which was
the service sought by RTD’s RFP. He also noted that the closed captioning service
provided by Google through YouTube-hosted videos did not offer the level of
accuracy mandated for videos produced by entities receiving federal funding.
Ms. McManus said that the agency had tested YouTube as a possible host for
meeting videos and that the test was not successful.
Chair Tisdale said that it was worthwhile to know that other options exist but that
they may not work for RTD’s needs.
General Manager Genova said that the robustness and accuracy of other captioning
options were not at the level that was necessary for RTD.
Ms. McManus noted that the first contact with OMF was a sales call prior to the
date of the letter from the CCAB.
General Manager Genova said he had only recently received a copy of the CCAB
letter from Julie McKenna of Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs.
Director Menten said that she received letters from Amanda Chilten and others
asking how to access meeting minutes. She asked, if the Board were to replace the
summarized minutes with a video and a shorter document detailing the official
actions taken by the Board, whether corrections would be able to be made to the
closed captioning file.
Ms. McManus said that minutes as the Board knew them would be going away but
noted that the Board Office staff would be responsible for ensuring the accuracy of
the closed captioning and its corresponding transcript. She said staff would have
the ability to make all corrections, including acronyms. She said that the vendor
selected through the RFP would be provided with documentation of terms to help
with the transcription.

Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Tisdale said that the Board could ask OMF why they did not submit a
proposal if the responses to the RFP were less than vibrant.

6.C

Chair Tisdale described the document as a glossary.
Director Menten said that users were able to control the playback speed of videos
on YouTube and asked whether that would be possible.
Ms. McManus said that the videos would be hosted on the same portal as the
meeting minutes.

Ms. McManus replied that it would not.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that she had never watched closed captioned videos
and asked whether the CSPAN offered verbatim live captioning.
Chair Tisdale said that it was not verbatim.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked why RTD would be held to a higher standard than the
federal government.
Ms. McManus said that the standard of accuracy could be set by the Board.
Chair Tisdale said that the committee had raised excellent questions but suggested
they may be premature and could be answered during the review of the responses
to the RFP.
Director Menten said that would be fine and that she wanted to be involved. She
also asked to know how many people accessed the meeting minutes via the
Meeting Portal. She said that her impression was that few people actually used the
minutes.
Ms. McManus said that an external vendor hosts the minutes and that the Board
Office would work with them. She said that the level of detail in the traffic data
analysis may not give the specific history on which files were accessed.
Director Menten said she would be curious how many people used the website. She
said, even if there were not many users, that did not mean that hosting the files
online was not worthwhile.

Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked if the video player would offer playback speed control.

6.C

Director Folska, Ph.D., said the number of website hits was something the Board
needed to know anyway.

Director Menten mentioned that the gates along the Gold Line corridor were staying
down for a long time, in excess of two minutes. She asked if that was a known
problem or whether it was part of normal testing. She stated that people were
posting videos online of the gates staying down.
General Manager Genova said that the delay could be the result of testing the
conventional activation system and not the wireless system. He said the
conventional activations were usually longer in duration. He said that could be a
factor and that it could be part of the testing and not part of normal operation.
Director Menten said she would like to see the gate operation for herself and asked
for General Manager Genova to provide her with a timetable so that she could
watch. She also asked for a list of advertisers the agency uses for help wanted ads.
Ms. McManus said the agency used 24 different firms.
General Manager Genova also mentioned that Scott Reed, Assistant General
Manager of Communications, was compiling the number of Spanish-language
stations used for advertising.
Director Menten said those numbers would be helpful for her to have before the
Board-only retreat because one of the topics would be workforce development.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked to know which lines displayed the ads.
General Manager Genova said that deadhead buses also display digitally that the
agency is hiring operators and mechanics.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether hard copies of ads were placed on board.
General Manager Genova said that hard copies are displayed inside and on the
backs of buses.

Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Tisdale suggested that the numbers could be analyzed when review of the
responses to the RFP.

6.C

Chair Tisdale said that it would be helpful to know the scope of the advertising
initiatives currently under way.

Director Menten asked about the shortfall of mechanics and mentioned that she had
attended a town hall, where she met a student who had heard about a scholarship
for the mechanic program offered through Warren Tech.
General Manager Genova said that the agency was only down slightly on
mechanics but low on bus and rail operators. He stated the Board would soon see a
significant change in wages as part of the budget recommendations, though he said
he could not at that time speak publicly regarding the exact amounts.
Regarding the mechanic shortage, Director Folska, Ph.D., said that the agency had
met with Aurora Community College six months earlier and at that time Bruce Abel,
Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
said that the agency did not have a single opening.
General Manager Genova said that the number of mechanics ebbs and flows and
that the maintenance groups engage with groups all over to ensure a pipeline of
potential candidates.
Chair Tisdale asked if it was fair to say that the mechanic situation has been
alleviated substantially.
General Manager Genova agreed. He said the full Board would receive a memo
regarding the WIN Program by the end of the week. He noted that, Martell Dyles,
WIN Program Manager, was leaving to start his own business. He said the WIN
program was shifting focus toward operations and maintenance as opposed to
construction and was expanding to take on more of an outreach role. He said that
the program could operate bilingually and could be moved to the Human Resources
Department, so that the agency would have a broader recruiting outreach with
various organizations. He said this was an opportunity to make the program better
and that the biggest benefit would be to feed jobs to the agency jobs. He stated
that a memo would be sent out on the following day.
Director Menten asked whether the agency had submitted hard copies of letters to
both Mile High Connects and 9to5 Colorado stating that RTD was hiring bus

Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that ads were one part of a recruitment strategy and
asked to know what else was being done for recruitment. She said the agency’s
biggest problem was the employee shortage.

6.C

operators. She said she would like it to be on the record that current versions of
those letters were sent.

Director Menten asked that the General Manager copy the Board on future
correspondence.
Chair Tisdale clarified that what Director Menten was asking was a record that the
agency has made continuing outreach efforts.
Director Folska, Ph.D., stated that a press release could be sent out as well.
Director Deadwyler said that she wanted to speak to the Chair at a later date
regarding the Workplace Initiative Now (WIN) Program.
Director Lubow apologized for being late to the meeting.
General Manager Genova said that he had recently attended a great Mobility Choice
Board Meeting during which the consultant presented its proposal. He said the RTD
Board would receive at least four additional briefings and that he was encouraged
by what he saw. He noted that RTD’s new Chief Operating Officer, Michael Ford,
would be starting on Monday, who was previously involved in executive
management of transit agencies. He said Mr. Ford would be outstanding addition to
RTD. He noted that there would be a forthcoming rail shutdown due to a tie-in with
the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE), which would impact the two stations for a
total of nine days, from a Friday night until the following Sunday. He said the Board
would receive additional information in the next Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Meeting. He said that there would not be a bus bridge because CDOT
planned to do work in the same area at that time.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 1:45 p.m.

Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova said that, the last time RTD had met with those
organizations, the agency stated that it would partner with organizations to offer
people great jobs. He said that the organizations were made aware of the offer at
the highest levels.

6.C

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 25, 2018 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 45

Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

8.A

Board of Directors

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, PhD, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 9, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Special Board Meeting
Chaired by Larry Hoy
A.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:38 p.m.

B.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

C.

Roll Call

Barbara McManus called roll. There were fifteen Board members present at roll call.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:35 PM
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
5:22 PM
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Present
5:29 PM
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present
Present

5:35 PM
5:25 PM
5:35 PM

Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:36 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:32 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:35 PM
5:25 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

5:26 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:13 PM
5:20 PM

Packet Pg. 46

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Nicole Carey, Jessie
Carter, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Bob Grado, Cory Granrud, Janet Huhn, Doug MacLeod, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Brenden
Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, John Perry, Scott Reed, Jenifer RossAmato, Ruth Seleske, Roger Sherman, Lindsey Smith, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Mark Tieman, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Paul
Von Fay, Susan Wood, Christina Zazueta

Others Present:

Kent Bagley, Alec Garbini, Dr. William Gross, Angie Malpiede, Bill
McMullen, Dan Stitt, John Thompson, Gary Van Dorn

D.

Election of 2018 Board Officers
Chair Hoy remarked that, as stated in the Board Bylaws, in the first official meeting
of the year the Board elects the Officers of Chair, First Vice Chair, Second Vice
Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer. Barbara McManus provided each Board member
with a copy of the rules of engagement for the nomination and election of Officers
in accordance with RTD’s Bylaws and Robert’s Rules of Order. The election begins
with the position of Chair and worked through the process to all Executive
Committee seats. Board members making the nominations, seconders, and any
other requested speakers would be given three minutes to speak on behalf of their
candidate for each position.
Chair Hoy noted he would ask for other nominations and, when there were no more
nominations, the nominations would close and votes would be cast by secret ballot.
Two Board members who were not running for the position, along with General
Counsel would count the votes and provide the tally back to the Chair Pro Tem for
announcement. He added that, if no candidate receives eight affirmative votes, the
vote process would be repeated. Chair Hoy said that, should the vote go into
multiple rounds, Board members who wished to speak further on behalf of a
candidate with new or additional information to share could do so. He stated the
vote would be done in round-robin fashion and each speaker would be limited to
three minutes.
Director Folska, Ph.D., stated, if Chair Hoy planned to run for the office of Chair
again that the meeting be run by First Vice Chair Francone.
Chair Hoy stated that would be the process, if he were nominated he would hand
the meeting over to First Vice Chair Francone.

Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

8.A

Chair Hoy explained that RTD tradition was to have open nominations from the
Board.
Motion for
Chair of the
Board:

Director Folska, Ph.D., nominated Director
Tisdale, stating that he conducts himself in a
manner that the Board and agency could be
proud of and that he would build a culture of
communication, cooperation, and collaboration.
Director Sisk nominated Chair Hoy, stating that
he had served in distinction for the last year and
had allowed RTD to grow and established
contacts that benefit the agency. He added that
Chair Hoy had done extraordinary work with the
Board and staff and that he listens to Board
members, constituents, and staff.
Chair Hoy asked if there were any other
nominees.
Director Folska, Ph.D., called a point of order
and an explanation of Roberts Rules stating that
it was inappropriate for Chair Hoy to be
conducting the election and requested the Board
to pass the gavel to First Vice Chair Francone.
Chair Hoy stated that he had no objection to
that request and fully intended to follow the RTD
procedures.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, explained that it
was not improper and that Robert’s Rules stated
that the Chair should not hesitate to put the
question to a motion to appoint officers or elect
delegates even if he was included. He added

Packet Pg. 48

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

Director Williams stated that Board Members interested in running for an officer
position would follow the process that had been defined and agreed upon by the
full board and that the process had not been defined and agreed upon.

that it was RTD’s procedure, as Chair Hoy
stated, that once he was nominated he would
transfer the temporary Chairmanship to First
Vice Chair Francone.
Director Folska, Ph.D., stated that Chair Hoy had
not handed the meeting over.
Chair Hoy stated that he would hand over the
meeting to First Vice Chair Francone, and that
had been the intent.
First Vice Chair Francone thanked Chair Hoy and
asked the Board to commence with the vote.
She asked Directors Mihalik and Lubow to join
General Counsel Rolf Asphaug to tally the votes.
Vote on
Nomination: Director Tisdale was elected as the Chair for
2018 with a vote of 8 in favor and 7 for Director
Hoy. First Vice Chair Francone announced
Director Tisdale as the Chair for 2018.
First Vice Chair Francone thanked Chair Hoy for
his service to the Board and to the District.
Motion for
First Vice
Chair:

Director Deadwyler nominated Director Menten
stating that she was one of the hardest working
board members.
Director Anderson nominated Chair Hoy because
he had supported the Board, the constituents,
and the agency. She added that she could not
vote for a candidate in a leadership position on
the Board that continuously voted against the
budget, does not support RTD and its
constituents. Director Anderson stated that
Chair Hoy as First Vice Chair could provide
assistance to the newly elected Chair.

Packet Pg. 49

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

Chair Hoy stated that it had been his honor to
have served as Chair. He added that he preferred
to decline the nomination as First Vice Chair and
nominated Director Broom for the position. He
stated that Director Broom had enormous
amount of experience and credentials that would
be required for the position.
First Vice Chair Francone requested the secret
ballot process to begin and asked Directors
Mihalik and Lubow to join General Counsel Rolf
Asphaug to tally the votes.
Vote on
Nomination: Director Menten was declared the winner with
10 votes in favor and 5 votes for Director
Broom.
Motion for
Second Vice
Chair:
Director Solano nominated Director Deadwyler.
Vote on
Nomination: Since there was no other nomination, First Vice
Chair Francone requested the nomination be
accepted by acclamation.
Director Deadwyler was proclaimed the Second
Vice Chair by acclamation.
Motion for
Treasurer:

Director Menten nominated Director Lubow
commending her dedication to completing
projects and the board.

Vote on
Nomination: Since there was no other nomination, First Vice
Chair Francone requested the nomination be
accepted by acclamation.

Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

8.A

Motion for
Secretary:

Director Solano nominated Director Folska, Ph.D.
Director Anderson nominated Director Walker,
stating that he worked two blocks from the
Board office and had been a loyal secretary that
had helped the Board staff. She added that the
person in the position of Secretary needed to be
on call and ready to work with the staff.
Chair Hoy seconded the nomination of Director
Walker, stating that not a lot of people were
aware of all that the position of Secretary entails
and how often Director Walker had been at the
Board office. He added that there was a lot of
signing and review to be done and that the
person needed to be accessible. Chair Hoy
commended Director Walker for his dedication,
experience, and his ability to be at the Board
Office in a moment’s notice.
Director Solano stated that he nominated
Director Folska, Ph.D., because she had earned
two Ph.Ds.’, she attends all functions for RTD
using public transportation, and she was aware
of what the office of Secretary entails. He
requested that the Directors look outside the box
and vote for Director Folska, Ph.D.
First Vice Chair Francone requested the secret
ballot process to begin and asked Directors
Mihalik and Lubow to join General Counsel Rolf
Asphaug to tally the votes.

Vote on
Nomination: Director Folska, Ph.D., was declared the winner
with 8 votes in favor and 7 votes for Director
Walker.

Packet Pg. 51

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

Director Lubow was proclaimed the Treasurer by
acclamation.

First Vice Chair Francone thanked Director
Walker for his service and hours dedicated to the
district.
Director Williams thanked First Vice Chair
Francone for all her time and dedication to the
district.
First Vice Chair Francone handed the meeting
back to Chair Hoy.
Chair Hoy stating that protocol established that
he would complete the meeting. He stated it had
been an honor to have been Chairman of the
Board and offered his support to the newly
elected officers and thanked all the members
that ran for the Executive Committee.
New Board Officers for 2018
Chair Tisdale
First Vice Chair Menten
Second Vice Chair Deadwyler
Treasurer Lubow
Secretary Folska, Ph.D.
E.

Action Items
1.

Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization
Agreement (the “Agreement”).
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
approve
the
Bank
Account
Signature
Authorization Agreement with the newly
approved officer signatures.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Sisk stated that he had been on the Wells Fargo Board
of Advisors and that recent allegations in the way that the

Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

Wells Fargo corporate offices had conducted themselves had
been deplorable and he would like the agency no longer bank
with Wells Fargo. He added that he would vote no because
voting yes condoned actions of Wells Fargo.
Director Menten requested more information regarding the
Wells Fargo allegations. She asked about why the
recommended action had not gone through the normal process
of approval through the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee.
Ms. McKillop, Chief Finance Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, explained that the
wording in the motion was not supposed to have read that it
was recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee. She added that the motion was done at the
Special Board meeting due to the election on new officers and
the need to immediately have the new signatories on file.
Chair Hoy asked what would happen if the Board voted no on
the motion.
General Counsel Asphaug explained that there would not be a
method for new officers to sign checks and that would be a
problem. He added that if there was a need to change banks
that would be addressed at another time.
Director Sisk stated that there was information that was
readily available regarding Wells Fargo and that there had
been some discrepancies that may be illegal.
Director Williams stated that there were some issues, but that
the meeting tonight was to approve the signatories not to
address the issues surrounding Wells Fargo.
Director Anderson seconded Director Sisk and stated that she
had removed assets from Wells Fargo, but that the Board
must move to approve the motion and would be voting yes.
Director Tisdale stated that maybe we need to start looking
for another bank.

Packet Pg. 53

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

Director Francone stated that she would support voting yes
but requested that more information be presented and the
issue be resolved in a timely manner.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams), 1 against (Sisk) and 1
abstention. (Archuleta).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSTAIN:

PASSED [13 TO 1 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Chuck Sisk
Ernest Archuleta

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
2.

Selection of Location for Posting of Board Notice

The RTD Board of Directors designates the entry way of the RTD administrative
office at 1660 Blake Street as its official location for posting of notices of all public
meetings in 2018 as required by C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(c). In addition, to the
maximum extent feasible, notices of public meetings will be posted on RTD’s
website.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
approve
the
entry way of the RTD
administrative office at 1660 Blake Street as its
official location for posting of notices of all
public meetings in 2018 as required by C.R.S.
24-6-402(2)(c). In addition, to the maximum
extent feasible, notices of public meetings will
be posted on RTD’s website.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 54

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

8.A

Director Williams asked if the RTD administrative office
address had been updated.
Chair Hoy stated that the address was updated
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Solano, Sisk,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 0 against.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Kate Williams, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously
3.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of December 19, 2017
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
approve Board Meeting Minutes of December
19, 2017
Director Folska, PhD., seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Francone stated she would abstain because she had
not attended the meeting.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Solano, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 against and 1 abstention
(Francone).

Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

Discussion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:

ACCEPTED [14 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Tina Francone

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
F.

Updates
Safety Management Systems (SMS) Framework
Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer, recognized Shirley Bennett, Senior Manager of
Safety and Environmental, Richard Lobato, Manager of Safety, and Skyler Mott,
Safety Compliance Officer, stating they were part of the Safety Team. He then
provided an overview of the Safety Management Systems (SMS) framework
presentation, and highlighted the following items from the presentation:
 The SMS is part of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) effort to improve
safety in public transportation. The FTA mandated the use of the SMS
defined as a “formal, data driven, top-down, organization-wide approach to
managing safety risks and assuring the effectiveness of safety risk
mitigations”.
 The purpose behind the SMS is to “improve public transportation safety and
provide transit agencies with a structure for understanding and addressing
safety risks through proactive and timely organizational decision-making…
[The system] proactively detects safety concerns and organizational factors,
and corrects them using data-driven prioritization.”
 Traditional Safety
o Management reviews accident/injury/incident data and decides that
the rates are too high, then directs safety to implement tactics to
reduce rates.
o Reactive to accidents and incidents: Individual focus
o Safety solely in the hands of the Safety Department
 System Safety
o Proactive approach – Reporting, Data, Trend Analysis
o Focus on management and organizational systems
o Continuous management process that spreads throughout the
organization – Safety, Responsibility, and Accountability.
 Critical Concerns
o Two Types of Accidents
 Individual Accidents
 Those resulting from the actions or inactions of people

Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

8.A

Organizational Accidents

Those resulting from actions or inactions of organization
o SMS addresses both types of accidents
Public Transportation Safety Program Regulations
o MAP-21(Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act): FTA
was directed to establish a Public Transportation Safety Program to
strengthen the performance of the public transportation safety
industry
o Adopt the Safety Management System as the basis for the FTA’s new
Public Transportation Safety Programs
 - NPRM: 49 CFR Part 670: Docket No. FTA-2015-0009
 http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2015-08-15/pdf/201520021.pdf
o Colorado PUC is our State Safety Oversight
 49 CFR Part 674: State Safety Oversight Program Standard
Why the Safety Management System?
o SMS allows public transportation agencies to examine how
organizational factors contribute to incidents, accidents and near
misses.
o Organizational factors include how an agency:
 Allocates its resources
 Defines and establishes operational procedures
 Supervises frontline personnel
 Trains staff
 Collects and Analyzes data
 Resolves human performance issues
SMS helps answer questions we should be asking:
o What are our most serious safety concerns?
o How do we know this?
o What are we doing about it?
o Is what we are doing working?
o How do we know what we are doing is working?
SMS Framework Components
o There are four SMS Framework Components (The Four SMS Pillars)
1. Safety Management Policy
a. Safety Management Policy Statement
i. Six critical aspects outlined in framework:
1. - Accountable Executive – General Manager
Genova
2. - State of management support
3. - Resource commitment









Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

o





4. - Employee safety reporting –non punitive
5. - Sets Expectations
6. - Discipline and Unacceptable behaviors
b. Safety Accountability and Responsibilities
c. Integration with Public Safety & Emergency Management
d. SMS Documentation and Records
2. Safety Risk Management
a. Hazard Identification and Analysis
b. Safety Risk Evaluation and Mitigation
3. Safety Assurance
a. Safety Performance Monitoring and Measurement
b. Management of Change
c. Continuous Improvement
4. Safety Promotion
a. Safety Communication
b. Competencies and Training
o SMS Framework:
 - http://safety.fta.dot.gov/cms/resources/view/fta-smsframework
Challenges
o Considerations
 What do we have in place already?
o Potential Challenges
 Staff, time and resources
 Enterprise Risk Management approach
 Enhanced documentation
 Performance monitoring
 Added training needs
 Formalizing employee safety reporting processes
Board of Director’s Role:
o Support the implementation of the SMS framework
o Support the Accountable Executive – GM/CEO
o Approve the Transit Agency Safety Plan - 2018
o Ensure RTD had the necessary staff and resources
o Support Safety as a Core Value / Culture
o Reinforce the Safety message with constituents
o Report Safety Concerns and Encourage others to do so
o Think Safe. Work Safe. Be Safe.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked how the SMS program would interface with CDOT and
local jurisdictions within the district.

Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

8.A

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked if the SMS had been woven together throughout
agencies and districts.
Mr. Meader explained that they were not directly woven together because it was
not currently mandated to do so.
Director Folska, Ph.D., stated that it seemed like an excellent opportunity during the
implementation and development of the program to fully integrate it with all
agencies. She also asked if there was live camera feed from different locations
within the district, especially parking structures or large hub areas.
Mr. Meader explained that, from an emergency management perspective, RTD and
other agencies were woven together and that the agencies do joint exercises with
other agencies and from an emergency management stand point. He added that RTD
does have live feed cameras throughout the district that go to the security center.
Director Menten asked about the safety email address and if it was for the pubic.
Mr. Meader explained that the email was safety@rtd-denver.com and currently was
only an internal email and that, once the infrastructure was in place, it would go
public in order to report safety concerns.
Director Menten asked what the phone options were in order to report a safety
concern.
Mr. Meader explained that RTD currently has the Transit Watch Application and the
safety Hot Line number which was posted on the website and the security
command center number was 303-299-2911.
Director Francone asked what were the possible legal implications of noncompliance
with MAP-21 and when the transit plan was brought forth that it would be done
with enough time for the Board to review.
Mr. Meader stated that the safety plan would definitely be presented with enough
time for review. He requested an offline conversation regarding compliance with
MAP-21.
General Manager Genova stated that the ultimate implication of noncompliance
would be withholding of federal funds and that the agency had until April 2018 to
receive FTA approval.

Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

Mr. Meader stated that he personally works with the airport and CDOT and meets
with other agencies and districts regularly regarding SMS implementation.

Director Broom stated that there was a recent rail accident and asked if there were
mechanisms in place to pass on lessons learned from accidents or incidents to all
transportation agencies.
Mr. Meader explained that there was an APTA Rail Safety Committee, Tracks
Committee, that was a main driver for understanding rail accidents and policies
commenting that General Manger Genova served on that committee for years. He
added that both the FRA and FTA played a large role in sharing and reporting that
information.
Director Deadwyler asked if the SMS was being sent to RTD contractors.
Mr. Meader explained that everyone that worked for RTD including contractors
would be provided the information and be required to be trained and adhere to the
SMS Plan.
General Manager Genova added that one of the new changes from the FTA was that
oversight now applied to all transportation modes and would be included under the
SMS plan.
Director Walker asked if the plan included identifying problem areas and determining
how to resolve those issues. He added that it was incumbent upon the Board to
support these programs financially in order to increase safety across the agency.
Mr. Meader stated that the program enables RTD to analyze and mitigate safety
concerns.
Director Solano requested that two safety concerns that had been expressed to him
be addressed regarding the number of security personnel on Route 88 and the
response from the RTD Safety, Security, and Asset Management Department.
G.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

H.

Motion to move into Executive Session
C.R.S 24-6-402 (4) (d) Specialized details of security arrangements or
investigations, including defenses against terrorism, both domestic and foreign, and
including where disclosure of the matters discussed might reveal information that
could be used for the purpose of committing, or avoiding prosecution for, a
violation of the law.

Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
into Executive Session for the purposes of
discussing CRS C.R.S 24-6-402 (4) (d)
Specialized details of security arrangements or
investigations,
including
defenses
against
terrorism, both domestic and foreign, and
including where disclosure of the matters
discussed might reveal information that could be
used for the purpose of committing, or avoiding
prosecution for, a violation of the law.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

General Counsel Asphaug explained that the purpose for going
into Executive Session was to review the safety procedure for
safety in place and other security details.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 0 against.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
AWAY:

ADOPTED [13 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson
Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
The Board moved into Executive Session at 7:08 p.m.
I.

Adjourn from Executive Session
Chair Hoy adjourned the Executive Session at 8:07 p.m.

J.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:07 p.m.

Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Jan 9, 2018 5:30 PM (Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 9, 2018)

8.A

11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

January 12, 2018

Subject:

Salaried Trustee Appointments

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: January 17, 2018
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: January 30, 2018

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Scott Reed and Derrick Black, to terms expiring
12/31/2020 as trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried
Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
BACKGROUND
On August 16, 2016, the Board approved amendments to the above Plans to provide for appointment of
the same four employee trustees for each of the plans, with two trustees being employee participants in
the Pension Plan, and two being employee participants in the Defined Contribution Plan, with termination
dates to provide for staggered terms. The terms of Scott Reed and Derrick Black expired on 12/31/17.
Resolution No. 27 Series of 2010, made modification to state that, “for reappointment of Trustees who
have served satisfactorily and in whose education the Trusts have made substantial investments, it is
not necessary to seek applications for renewal, and instead the application process established by the
RTD Board of Directors in 2008 will be used on those occasions when the Board finds it necessary or
appropriate to appoint new salaried trustees to the Trusts.”
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approve the
attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Scott Reed and Derrick Black, to terms expiring 12/31/2020 as
trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined
Contribution Plan.
2. Reject the Recommended Action and the attached resolution, and require a revised
recommendation. This is not the recommended action.

ATTACHMENTS:


Resolution for Re-appointment of Salaried Pension Trustees

(DOC)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 63

11.A.a

APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES TO THE RTD SALARIED EMPLOYEES’ PENSION TRUST
AND RTD SALARIED EMPLOYEES’ DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN TRUST

Whereas, RTD maintains the RTD Salaried Employees' Pension Plan and Trust ("Pension Plan"
or "Pension Trust") for salaried employees hired by RTD before January 1, 2008 and the RTD Salaried
Employees' Defined Contribution Plan and Trust ("Defined Contribution Plan" or "Defined Contribution
Trust") for salaried employees hired on or after January 1, 2008, which may collectively be referred to
as the "Trusts"; and,
Whereas, prior resolutions for the Trusts authorize the Board of Directors to appoint two
employee Trustees who participate in the Pension Plan and two who participate in the Defined
Contribution Plan, in addition to the two Board members who are appointed to the Trusts and the Chief
Financial Officer who is a permanent member of the Trusts, to serve as the same set of trustees on both
of the Trusts; and
Whereas, Scott Reed is a Trustee whose term expired December 31, 2017; and
Whereas, Derrick Black is a Trustee whose term expired December 31, 2017; and
Whereas, the RTD Board of Directors now wishes to reappoint Scott Reed and Derrick Black to
serve as employee trustees, both with terms expiring December 31, 2020.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
1. The RTD Board of Directors, in compliance with Section 7.01 of the Trusts, hereby reappoints
Scott Reed as an employee who is a Pension Plan participant, and Derrick Black as an employee
who is a Defined Contribution Plan participant, to serve as trustees on both of the Trusts, with
terms expiring December 31, 2020.
Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District this ___ day of
______________, 2018.
______________________

_____________________

Secretary

Chair

1

Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: Resolution for Re-appointment of Salaried Pension Trustees (3360 : Salaried Trustee Appointments)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
("RTD")
RESOLUTION No. _____ SERIES OF 2018

11.A.a

DEFINED BENEFIT (PENSION) TRUST:
Name of Trustee
Bob Broom, Director
Judy Lubow, Director
Derrick Black (DC* Employee)
Sylvia Francis (DC* Employee)
Luong (Lou) Ha (PP* Employee)
Scott Reed (PP* Employee)
Heather McKillop, CFO

Term Expiration Date
12/31/2018
12/31/2018
12/31/2020
12/31/2018
12/31/2018
12/31/2020
Permanent Member

DEFINED CONTRIBUTION TRUST:
Name of Trustee
Bob Broom, Director
Judy Lubow, Director
Derrick Black (DC* Employee)
Sylvia Francis (DC* Employee)
Luong (Lou) Ha (PP* Employee)
Scott Reed (PP* Employee)
Heather McKillop, CFO

Term Expiration Date
12/31/2018
12/31/2018
12/31/2020
12/31/2018
12/31/2018
12/31/2020
Permanent Member

Attachment: Resolution for Re-appointment of Salaried Pension Trustees (3360 : Salaried Trustee Appointments)

For information purposes:

*PP = Pension Plan participant; DC = Defined Contribution Plan participant

2

Packet Pg. 65

11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

January 12, 2018

Subject:

Project Carryforward for SmartCard Stored
Value

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: January 17, 2018
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: January 30, 2018

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve a budget transfer of $1,919,147 from the operating reserve to the Information
Technology Base System capital project budget, effective January 1, 2018, to allow for the
completion of the SmartCard Stored Value Implementation Project (#10322) that was not completed
in 2017. The operating reserve will be replenished in the 2018 Amended Budget with the funds that
were not spent on this project in 2017.
BACKGROUND
The 2018 Adopted Budget includes an amount for previously-approved projects carried forward from
2017. The basis to determine the amount to be carried forward is the Oracle accounting system.
The locally-funded SmartCard Stored Value Implementation Project was closed in error in Oracle,
therefore it was not included in the final capital carryforward report generated in Oracle. The project
was discovered in an Oracle post-budget capital carry-forward report in which the project had been
reopened.
DISCUSSION
The balance of the funds for this project totaling $1,919,147 were not accrued or spent at the end
of 2017. The transfer from the operating reserve to fund the carry-forward to 2018 will allow the
project to proceed in 2018. This transfer will allow RTD to continue work on this SmartCard
project.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There will be no net financial impact to RTD. The unspent funds for this project were included in the
general fund balance at year-end. The savings to RTD from not completing the project in 2017 will
be carried forward and be used to replenish the operating reserve at the time of the 2018 Amended
Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve a transfer of $1,919,147 from the
operating reserve to the Information Technology capital project budget, effective January 1,
2018, to allow for completion of the SmartCard Stored Value Implementati on Project that was
not completed in 2017. The operating reserve will be replenished in the 2018 Amended
Budget with funds that were not spent on this project in 2017.

Packet Pg. 66

11.B

Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not approve the requested budget transfer at this time.
Instead, include this request as part of the 2018 Amended Budget. This action is not recommended
since it will require RTD to suspend work on this project, and will not allow RTD to advance the
ongoing SmartCard project as a whole.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager, Budget and Financial Analysis
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 67

