Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 19, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held June 19, 2012 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Malpiede; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Director Anderson, Deadwyler, and Williams.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Frank Buczkowski, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, James Cook, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary Googins, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Robert Rynerson,
Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Greg Smith, Walt
Stringer, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington, Phil Washington and Don
Young

Others Present:

Gary Forbes – FTL, Carlos Gonsalez – FTM, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001,
Lee Johnson – FTCC, Darla Ortiz - FTM
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Updates
 WIN Program
o Cohort Update – Carla Perez shared that last week they hosted a WIN
program for SBE in hopes of them using the WIN program participants
for jobs as the DBE does.
Director Hoy asked if there were any incentives for the SBE to get
involved. Carla responded that they look highly upon those businesses
that utilize the WIN participants.
Director Tobiassen questioned who trains the WIN participants. Carla
responded that the program has about 48 training business
partnerships that train the participants as positions become available.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 2 of 3

Director Bagley commented that he was excited about the WIN
program and wondered what it cost to run the WIN program. Carla
Perez responded they are still looking at the factors and measures to
come up with that calculation and will get that information to the
Board. Carla shared that organizations like DTP, Urban League and
other businesses involved in the program have all gone above and
beyond in working with RTD. She stated she will be excited when the
numbers come out because she believes they will show greatness.
General Manager Washington added yes we are in the process of
gathering the data of cost and will report back to the Board. He shared
that the benefit of having such a program as WIN helps us to receive
Federal dollars which also leads to bigger projects. The WIN program is
a modeled program that is looked at across the world and is one that
we use when discussing RTD and its successes.
Director Walker stated that it would be great to see not only the jobs
these individuals are getting but to also see that they are receiving
great salary wages and contributing in paying taxes.

II.



SBO Compliance Monitoring Reports
Carla Perez did not summarize the report but opened up the floor for
questions.
Director Tobiassen questioned how much of the work being done on our
projects is being done by Colorado construction companies? Carla Perez stated
about 90% of the DBE/SBE companies used are local.



Outreach Efforts
Carla Perez shared that she along with Director Deadwyler and Malpiede
attended a Joint Venture Meeting for the Chamber of Commerce and the
Black Construction Group where the discussion was developing stronger
collaboration and developing joint ventures to bid on construction projects.
She found it to be a very beneficial event and walked away with a lot of great
ideals. Carla stated that it was a great event and encourages the rest of the
Board to attend one of the future sessions that they will host. Director
Malpiede added that there is no cost to attend and that it is open to the entire
community to bid.

Other Matters
Carla Perez shared that in regards to the sessions they have facilitated with the Board
members thus far have been remarkable. She thanked the Directors that have already
attended and shared that the one-on-one sessions have been a great opportunity for
Directors to ask questions and be educated on what is all going on with RTD. She
stated that the Directors gave many great suggestions and ideals that they will
implement.
Chair Kemp commented that he appreciated the one-on-one session and that he

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 19, 2012
Page 3 of 3

received great, well rounded information. He thanked the staff for a job well done.
Several other Directors expressed the same gratitude as Chair Kemp.
Director Malpiede requested that a SBE policy be put in place similar to the DBE
policy that is currently in place. Carla responded by saying sure, they will look into
getting that completed.
III.

Next Meeting Date – August 14, 2012

IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 5:56 p.m. to the Operations and Customer Service
Committee.

