2023-07-12
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Wednesday, July 12, Operations and Safety Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 5:30, like we're supposed to be. Please mute yourself unless you
are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. The committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors may be
held remotely via Zoom. They will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as possible on the Board's website. You can visit
rtd-denver.com. A live stream of this meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of the staff, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's proceedings,
please raise your virtual hand and wait for me or whoever is assisting me to call you before proceeding to
speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate they would
like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6.
Let's call the roll now for the committee members. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Bob Broom. I do not see Director Broom. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am here also. Let's see who else we have. Do we have other Board members? I see
a bunch of staff. I don't see any other-- oh, Director Tisdale. I'm sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I am here, Director Williams. This is Director Davidson.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ah, Director Davidson. Thank you. OK. I think that's all. Public comment is what's next
on our agenda, and it's open to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current month and the immediately preceding month. If you
wish to speak, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.

During this time, the committee will not offer any direct response or comments. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com after the meeting. Jillian, are there any hands raised for public comment at the moment?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: There is. We have phone number ending in 2733.
KATE WILLIAMS: Whoever is attached to that phone number, staff will unmute you in just a moment.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, your comments will need to be submitted in writing. Comments can be submitted to the Board
Office at the same address I gave earlier. Speakers, please begin your remarks by stating your name.
Each speaker will have three minutes to speak. And our first speaker is whoever is attached to that phone
number.
Jillian, are they unmuted at that phone number?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: They are unmute. They can go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: We'll wait just a minute. Sometimes technology is not our friend. OK, is that the only
speaker we have tonight, Jillian?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: That is all that we have. We did receive one email from Richard Bamber.
KATE WILLIAMS: I did read that email and take note of it. OK, with no other participants in the queue, we
will close the public comment period at this time. There are no information items from external entities at
this meeting. There are four recommended actions on the agenda this evening.
The first action is related to the September 2023 Title VI service equity analysis. And the action calls for
the Board of Directors to adopt the Title VI service equity analysis report for the September 2023 service
changes to comply with federal laws, regulations, and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964. Do we have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved. Bouquet.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second. Sloan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I think, at this time, that Carl Green, the Director of Civil Rights, and Jessie
Carter, the Senior Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, will present this item. Gentlemen, the
floor is yours.
CARL GREEN: Madam Chair, thank you. I'll go ahead and pull up the screen here. All right, how are we
looking? Good to go?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
CARL GREEN: Again, thank you so much, Madam Chair and fellow Board of Directors. My name, again,
is Carl Green Jr., Director of the Civil Rights Division. And tonight I'll be presenting on the Title VI service
equity analysis as it relates to the September 2023 proposed runboard changes.
So just to give you an overview of what to expect, similar to yesterday, I will be providing an overview of
the proposed service changes. I'll get into the FTA requirements. From there, I'll get into the Title VI and

Service Equity Analysis Overview, and then spell out the Title VI policies, and then the methodology
associated with the analysis, and then get into the results of the route and network level analysis, and
then briefly go over the public outreach overview, and then end with the recommendation.
So just to give you a sneak peek and our COO Michael Ford and Senior Manager Jessie Carter of-Senior Manager of Service Development Jessie Carter will be presenting more finer detail the associated
changes. But just to give you an overview, there are 26 proposed changes and 8 of which are modified
services. We have 12 seasonal adjustments. And then we have 6 services that fall under on time
performance adjustment category.
So just briefly, based on federal requirements, RTD must conduct a service equity analysis. And as
Madam Chair denoted, before the service proposal changes are approved, the Board of Directors must
be made aware, consider, and approve of the Title VI analysis before the agency takes action.
And the authority that sets the precedent is the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which was signed by President
Lyndon B. Johnson about 59 years and 10 days today. So we're on the 50-year anniversary. So
essentially, specifically, Title VI sets up the non-discrimination requirements as it relates to agencies or
entities receiving federal financial assistance. And then we have the FTA circular, which provides the
policies and procedures and the framework for carrying out this type of analyses at the staff level. And
then we have the Board adopted Title VI program, which sets and tones the policies and the way in which
we carry out our analysis.
So just to give you an overview of the analyses specifically as it relates to service changes, step 1 is
identifying or making the determination of whether the proposed change meets the major service change
threshold policy, which I'll go over in finer detail in the presentation. Step 2 is evaluating the potential
impacts with respect to Title VI populations, specifically minorities. So we have a disparate impact policy
as well as a disproportionate burden policy, which covers low income. And by definition, again, that is at
or below 150% of the federal poverty level.
If we identify that there is a potential impact, then n we move to step 3, which is about evaluating
alternatives that will meet the intent and purpose of the proposed service changes or we will look to either
change course or address the negative impact by a mitigation or avoiding that potential impact.
And from here on out, I'll probably refer to minority and low-income populations as either equity or Title VI
populations. But just for the Board's edification, just want to make certain that I will be utilizing those
synonymously.
All right, so now I'll be getting into the Title VI policies, specifically the major service change as well as
disparate impact and disproportionate burden policies. Again, I'll refer to just for-- to simplify the language,
I will refer to it as DI and DB policies But yeah, just to give y'all a heads up.
So as far as our major service change policy, that is a 25% increase or decrease in the service hours of
any route that would remain in effect 12 or more months. And then, by virtue of the major service change
results, there is one increase or major-- one major service increase out of the 26 changes.
And then getting into the DI/DB policies-- so we have established thresholds within those two particular
policies, and the threshold is 10%. So as we test for disparate impact at the route or system level, we are
looking at the delta between the comparator groups from minority versus non-minority and low income
versus non-low income.

And just to illustrate what the methodology and how the analysis is conducted, we can see that the blue
graph or the blue bar in this diagram-- it shows that 25% of the non-minority population will be impacted
by this service increase, where if we take that threshold of 10%, we then apply that for major service
increases. And that is 22.5%.
So what we're looking at here is if the percent of minority populations is below that 22.5%, then that would
be considered a potential disparate impact. And then, on the inverse, if we're looking at major service
reductions, we were flipping it around. We're adding 2.5% to the 25% because that is 10% of the 25%, so
2.5%. And if it's a major service reduction, if anything falls above that, then that-- above the 27.5-- then
that would be considered a potential impact. And the similar computation is applied for the low income or
the disproportionate burden threshold of 10%.
So taking a deeper dive, just to explain the methodology, as some of the Board of Directors are well
aware, dating back to June of '22 last year, prior to that date, we would complete a route-level analysis.
But looking at being able to take a deeper dive on the associated impacts that are potentially proposed,
we have moved in the direction of doing a network-level analysis.
So essentially the difference between the two, for the route level, we're just looking at individual routes
and utilizing GIS or ArcGIS, which is a geospatial database system, where we're looking at the
demographics a quarter mile buffer around that particular route. And then, in comparison when we're
looking at the network level, it's an aggregate of all the major service changes.
And looking at it in totality or from a holistic standpoint, what is the potential benefits or burdens as it
relates to the proposed service changes? And one thing that I just wanted to highlight here is the way in
which we do our analyses is-- the tip of the spear, so to speak, as we think about different transit
properties and just to give a selfless plug the Transit Equity Office, we've done a lot of different consults
across the nation of how do we carry out our analysis. So I just wanted to emphasize to the Board that we
take a robust effort as it relates to assessing the way in which we put out service. So I just wanted to
highlight that here.
So as I mentioned earlier, there was only one line that met the major service change threshold, and that
was Route GIS. So just as you all can probably see that because there was only one service change and
looking at the demographics around that particular route, there was a potential disparate impact but no
disproportionate burden. And I'll get to it a little bit later in the presentation, but there's minimal concerns
from a Title VI perspective, and I'll identify why.
So by virtue of the way in which we do our analyses, again, another best practice that we've implemented
is looking at key public service destinations. And I know that is some of by direction of our General
Manager and CEO Debra Johnson, as well as feedback from the community, is it's not just looking at
where people live, the neighborhoods that people live, but it's also are we increasing access to these key
destinations, which includes retail and convenience stores, academic institutions, social service agencies,
senior housing, and, of course, jobs or places of employment.
So looking at the GS specifically, it creates a lot of new access by this reinstatement. So if we look at this
table here, you can see it increases jobs by about 34,000; grocery stores, 179; and then just looking-social service centers, 24; senior housing, 12; and then academic institutions is 14. And the specific
names of these institutions are in the Board report, or rather the attachment, Attachment b, of the
recommended action item where it spells out specifically the names of these different entities.

So moving on with the public outreach overview, as the Board is well aware, there were three open
houses that took place May 15 through the 16th of this year. And just wanted to highlight the additional
efforts provided by the Transit Equity Office where we identified community-based organizations and the
key destinations around this particular stop and did some additional outreach to communicate the
associated changes with the reinstatement of the GS.
So to give the network level results, just wanted to highlight here that minority populations receive a
slightly lower increase in service or were positively impacted compared to non-minority populations. And
just doing the math here, it's less than 1% less for minority groups, and you can see it's 0.47% versus
1.07% for non-minority. But the difference does meet the disparate impact threshold, which is at 0.96%.
Whereas as we look at low-income populations, they do receive a greater increase in service and they
were positively more positively impacted compared to non low-income populations. And there is no
disproportionate burden.
So the conclusion, as we look at the overall everything that went into this assessment, the GS
reinstatement, it does serve above average low-income populations compared to the overall Service
District average. And the GS reinstatement increases access to those key public service destinations
which I mentioned earlier.
But if we think about-- this third bullet point is something that I do want to highlight, which is baked into
this assessment, is if we look at the 25 minor changes of the proposed changes, comparing equity
populations versus non-equity populations, they're more positively impacted in total with those minor
changes that are being proposed. So again, just ending with just wanted to let you all know that there is
minimal Title VI concerns at the route and network level, which then brings me to the tail end of this
presentation, is to-- for the Board of Directors to approve the September 2023 Title VI service equity
analysis. So with that being said, I'll now open up the floor to any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Mr. Green, I owe you an apology. I was talking to your dad instead of to
you.
CARL GREEN: No worries.
KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE] that said Junior. That's really great work. And so, directors, if you have
questions or comments, please raise your hand and I will call on you.
OK, I don't see any hands up. Am I missing any, Jillian? OK, we're going to go to the vote then. I heard
the mover was Director Bouquet, and the second was Director Sloan. And I'm going to make this simple.
Are there any no votes on moving this action forward?
No. You all are a very quiet group tonight. OK, with-- Director Guzman, I neglected to acknowledge you
earlier, and I apologize. And did Director Broom join us? No. So-JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Yes, he did.
KATE WILLIAMS: He did? Director Broom, you're here?
BOB BROOM: I'm here.

KATE WILLIAMS: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 yes votes and no no votes. The motion passes. And we will move on
to the next part.
OK, we got to go through a bunch of these tonight. The second action is for service change for the Board
of Directors to approve the September 2023 service changes as revised and summarized in the
Attachment A and to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators impacted by these changes. Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved. Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sloan. Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. I heard Director Whitmore, Director Sloan. Michael Ford, who is our
Chief Operations Officer, and Jessie Carter, the Senior Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, will
present this item. Gentlemen, you have the floor.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer, and I would like
to provide you an update on the September 2023 service change proposal. As you know, staff brings to
you three service change proposals over the course of a year's time for discussion and subsequent
recommendations, which is in alignment with the collective bargaining agreement known as the CBA with
the ATU local 1001 for frontline operator selection of work.
Ridership levels are currently at 175,000 boardings on the transit network and commensurate with RTD's
System Optimization Plan, which facilitates an interest in increasing service. This exercise is done in
conjunction with RTD's resources, which then dictates the level of service increases, modifications, and/or
adjustments needing to be executed for the coming service change.
Efforts to increase staffing levels have continued, resulting in a positive increase in both recruitment and
retention. However, our rail and bus operations staff levels remain lower than budgeted headcount, which
limits the capacity to increase service as proposed in the System Optimization Plan. By way of
discussion, the guidelines contained in the strategic plan most directly relate to addressing customer
excellence, thus improving on time performance, maintaining contractual compliance, and adjusting
service levels to match service and ridership demand.
Staff is guided by the Board adopted service change principles. And in your Board packet, you will see a
breakdown of summary of proposed service changes, service improvements, service reductions, and
seasonal adjustments to account for travel patterns. Also in your Board packet is a complete breakdown
of the public hearings slash meetings that were conducted on Monday, May 15, at 12:00 PM. That was
virtual. There was another one conducted at 5:30 the same day at 1660 Blake in rooms T and D and,
finally, Tuesday, May 16, at 5:30, which was virtual. So at this time, I'm happy to take on any questions
that you may have. And I would invite Jessie Carter, our Senior Manager of Service Development, to join
me. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Madam Chair, you are muted.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's a nice change, isn't it? I will ask anybody who has questions or comments at this
time to raise their hand. OK, we are a cooperative group. You gentlemen have given us information, and
we have digested it, and we do not have questions or comments. I think that we will now call for the vote.

I have Director Whitmore as the movement and Director Sloan as the second. I'm going to make this easy
again. Is there anybody who is opposed to moving this forward to the full Board?
OK, seeing no one. We then have seven yes votes, no no votes, and no abstentions. And that motion
passes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I raised my hand as a no vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I apologize. I missed it. Now I see it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: That's all right.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. So then we have six yes votes, one no vote, and no abstentions.
And the motion passes and moves forward. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for helping me with that.
OK, we are going to go on to the third action, which is for the Access-a-Ride call center contract. The
auction states for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to
enter into a contract with First Transit, Inc., for the provision of Access-a-Ride call center services for
three years with two one-year options for a total of five years at a not to exceed cost of $22,908,566.35.
Do we have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom. Somebody like to second that? I can second it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll second it.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Director Bouquet. With those, we will now have Michael Ford, Chief
Operations officer, and Paul Hamilton, the Director of Paratransit Services, to give us some information
on this item. Gentlemen.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Thank you, Madam Chair. Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. I'm
presenting information related to the Access-a-Ride call center contract renewal and award
recommendations. RTD seeks a five-year contract, three years with two one-year options, for a call center
service delivered to customers in the RTD district. Call center services are provided at Civic Center Plaza,
utilizing RTD's facility, space, hardware, software, and utilities. These services include Access-a-Ride
reservations, dispatch and scheduling, and access on demand concierge service for paratransit
customers unable to utilize and Access-on-Demand app to book their trips.
By way of context, Access-a-Ride is RTD's federally-mandated paratransit service complying with the
Americans with Disabilities Act, known as the ADA. Also, Access-on-Demand is RTD's opt-in choice
program comprised of two taxi and two TNC providers offering curb-to-curb service to access on-demand
customers within RTD's district. Access-a-Ride services comprise approximately 60% of service provided
to paratransit customers, with the remaining 40% provided by Access-on-Demand service providers.

After a one-month open solicitation period, proposals were received from two vendors, CXperts and First
Transit slash Transdev. A panel of subject matter experts reviewed all proposals, ranked each proposal
using objective criteria, which include service approach, technical, and staff expertise, implementation of
offsite call center as overflow, and cost. Based on the scoring criteria, the panel recommends awarding
the Access-a-Ride call center service provisions to First Transit Transdev. That concludes my portion of
this, and I would invite Paul Hamilton, Director of Paratransit Services, to join me if there are any other
questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Hamilton, do you have anything you want to add? Or are you just going to wait for
questions?
PAUL HAMILTON: I will wait for questions. I think he has covered it well.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Directors, if you have any questions on this topic-- I'll look harder to see if I see
any hands. Thank you, Mr. Ford. That was well done. OK nobody has any questions or comments. We
will count the votes. Are there any no votes on moving this action forward? Director Ruscha, I see your
hand. I will count you as a no vote. Anybody else? OK, so that makes six yes votes, one no vote, and no
abstentions. And the motion passes with Director Broom as the mover and Director Bouquet as the
second.
The final action for this evening's meeting is regarding the 2024 Public Transportation Agency Safety
Plan, PTASP. I can say that part. The motion is for the Board of Directors to approve the 2024 Public
Transportation Agency Safety Plan as is required by 49 CFR, parts 674 and 673, and 4 CCR-723-7 rule
7345. Do I have a motion.
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved. Sloane.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second. Rosenthal.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I heard Director Sloan and Director Rosenthal. And at this time, I'm going
to ask Dan McClain our Chief Safety Officer and Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental
Compliance, to talk to us about this item. Dan.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yes. I'm Dan McClain, Chief Safety Officer. Let me share my screen. I got a short
presentation I'd like to share.
So this is a submittal of the 2024 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. Kind of the background is we
are aligned with the strategic plan. We made those efforts two years ago such that we didn't have
separate diverging priorities and competing objectives. They're all aligned and incorporated in the
strategic plan. So it helps us all pull in one direction.
It aligns with our values, our shared values, really focusing on employee, contractor, and customer safety.
We're required to have this in place, as the Chair indicated, by several federal regulations and state
regulations that require us to do that. Some of the changes that occurred in this version were driven by
the bipartisan infrastructure law that was passed in 2021.
So what is the PTASP? It's an annual snapshot of the safety management systems. And it documents
what safety management systems and processes we have in place, the activities, the policies and
procedures. It includes safety performance targets. And it's required to be reviewed, updated, and

approved annually. We have added layers of approval because of the bipartisan infrastructure bill, and I'll
get to that.
What is a Safety Management System? It is a formal, top-down, agency-wide, data-driven, safety
management approach. It's a set of interconnected and interdependent processes that enable safe and
healthy workplaces, prevent work-related injuries and illness, and continually work to improve the safety
performance. The Plan, Do, Check Act is the continuous improvement cycle that's associated with all
management systems, and it's really driven by the leadership and management commitment.
The 2024 PTASP-- what's new? The largest thing is we do have and have formed a charter and are
having meetings with our Joint Labor-Management Safety Committee. In fact, they have to approve this
PTASP before it comes to the Board of Directors, and that's in place. It's the-- charter is one of the
exhibits that's attached in the packet. We have included three-year rolling average and targets for the
safety performance indicators indicated in the National Transit Database and required by the National
Public Transportation Safety Plan, as required by the bipartisan infrastructure law.
And also we have incorporated by reference-- and it is in the exhibit-- the Emergency Operations Base
Plan, which has been, one, an outstanding issue corrective action plan for the Public Utilities
Commission. And we were required to update that for the last two years. And it was called out in our last
submittal that we would have it done before we resubmitted.
What are the performance targets in the National Public Transportation Safety Plan? It includes fatalities,
which is the total number of fatalities and the rate per vehicle revenue miles by mode, injuries, total
number and rate per vehicle revenue mile, safety events, number of reportable and the rate per vehicle
mile, and system reliability, which is the mean distance between mechanical failures by mode. Those
have their unique definitions in NTD and in the Public Transportation Safety Matrix. And we are now
tracking those and have a 5% goal reduction or improvement on reliability.
These are the other safety performance targets that are included in the 2024 PTASP, focusing on on-thejob injuries, the number of lost days. The two highest categories we've had historically has been slip and
falls and strain injuries, and we're looking to maintain the system reliability. But again, I said we're looking
for a 5% improvement in system reliability.
So the activities is continuous improvement, which would be the continued implementation of operational
risk management. That framework went into place in May of 2022. And we're applying it across the
organization, maturing that processes as we go. Continue to implement event notification reporting and
investigation policy and procedure. We've got several activities around that going to happen this year.
Leadership and employee safety skills training, pre-job safety briefings, and high risk-- for high risk and
non-routine activities. We have had some requests out of our two productive Union Joint Labor
Management Committees around this very topic.
Next steps-- today is Wednesday, July 12. It's to the Operations and Safety Committee for review and
discussion. Hopefully, it's pushed forward for the Board to approve it. Once it's approved, we will submit it
to the PUC for approval. This 2024 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan will be in effect from the
remainder of 2023 and the full calendar year of 2024. Questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: Great job, Dan. Thank you very much. Directors, if you have any questions or
comments, now would be the time to raise your hand. Director Broom, I see your hand up.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I was going to inquire, since we're talking about safety, is there anything
that the Board should be aware of that should be put in the budget for next year to carry out the goals of
this particular plan?
DAN MCCLAIN: Debra, you want-- I mean-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may-- if I may-DAN MCCLAIN: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. And thank you for the question, Director Broom and Madam
Chair. Thank you for indulging me. We collectively have been talking about the need to improve the state
of our assets to a state of good repair. You have heard me say in various forums that we have constantly
been building, building, building, and we are now at a place where we need to ensure we're maintaining
our assets.
With that as the backdrop as we go forward-- and I've been in conversations with our Leadership Safety
Committee, in addition to the Joint Labor Safety Management Committee of which Dan co-chairs with the
Union Vice President, is that we are going to focus on improving and enhancing our infrastructure. Quite
naturally, we will be including in the budget work to repair the downtown loop. For those of you that may
not be familiar, I'm talking about the original light rail track that was placed there when the system opened
in 1994. So that's one such example.
As we look at going forward with our Safety Management Systems Plans, how we can better capture
various elements so we know how to better assess and close out certain actions that may require
corrective action. So when we bring this forward to you collectively in the budget upon which you
appropriate items, more specifically, we'll have to double back with you so you can delegate authority to
me relative to safety initiatives that are underway.
So that's a broad overview as we're in the midst of developing the budget now, and respective divisions
and departments are putting together their line item requests relative to the alignment with our strategic
plan. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: GNCO. Director Broom, does that work for you?
BOB BROOM: That works for me. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Ruscha, I see your hand.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. My question relates to the Joint Labor Management Safety
Committee. So does-- so I understand that it-- I mean, the joint group has to approve this plan before it
comes before us. Does that have to be a unanimous approval? What is the threshold? And could you
share what-- how many members were in support of this plan?
DAN MCCLAIN: So I can--

DEBRA JOHNSON: So I'll start, and I'll yield the floor to Dan. So just for everyone's edification, as written
in statute in the bipartisan infrastructure law, it talks about there needs to be a Joint Labor Management
Safety Committee. It's not prescribed relative to how many members and things of the like. It's up to the
organization. Hence, we went forward and we were intentional in reference to our composition relative to
where might there be safety elements that are critical to our day-to-day core business, which is service
delivery.
So there is representation from RTD's management side as it relates to the modalities. Specifically, we
have representation from rail operations, bus operations. We have representation from what we know is
our Capital Programs because they oversee our facilities. And we have Dan McClain, who is the co-chair
along with the Vice Present of ATU 1001.
More specifically, as it relates to the various Union stewards that are overseeing the various divisions that
have those modalities are also represented. So as it relates to the unan-- I can't say the word-unanimous-- I can't say that today. It's been a long day, but you guys get what I'm talking about-- if it's
everybody. Basically, that's not stipulated, but there is concurrence as we go forward because
recognizing that there are some subject matter expertise on the side of management, and then there's the
experience that we have from our Union brethren. So with that as a backdrop, I will yield the floor to Dan
to explain how we have worked it out for our RTD's Joint Labor Management Safety Committee. Dan?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah so we started this over a year ago, trying to form the committee. We've had several
discussions. Again, the committee is to work collaboratively to improve safety throughout the
organization. So hopefully there aren't any discussions where we don't agree because we all are listening.
There's good selection. It's been good conversation.
To answer your question directly, everyone-- it was unanimous to approve the PTASP. My team spent
four or five sessions with the ATU, basically educate them in the six-- whatever we have-- 451 pages in
this packet, and probably 425 of them are mine for the PTASP and the exhibits. It's a lot of information to
digest. We have a lot of systems. We have a lot of regulations and requirements.
And even understanding the role as their committee it's not a tactical committee. It's not doing
inspections. It's not to do investigation. They are designed to do oversight and make sure that what we
say we do and what we say and do works. And that's kind of the approach we've taken-- very
cooperative, collaborative, and they're very suggested. And right now it's been a very-- we've had several
meetings but two official meetings, and they've been very successful.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you, Mr. McClain. Director Ruscha, does that answer your question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. And if I may make a comment, I have worked with labor organizations and for
labor organizations in previous roles, and a joint labor management structure can really be effective in
any industry. And so I'm very pleased to see the representation that the GNCO described and what I see
here in the packet and also to hear that there was consensus and it was unanimous. And so if the local
gives it a thumbs up, this director will give it a thumbs up. And I thank you for staff's efforts in that
collaboration.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Ruscha. OK, so now-- I don't see any other hands up. Not missing
anybody? OK. Let's go to the vote. We have Director Sloan as the movement and Director Rosenthal as
the second. And again, I'm going to ask, are there any no votes on moving this action forward to the
Board as a whole?

Seeing none, we have seven yes votes, no no votes, no abstentions. And that motion passes. So we're
doing good work here tonight, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you again, Dan. Appreciate it.
OK, there's one discussion item on the agenda this evening, and that item is a human resources update.
And I believe Charlene-- boy, I can't say it. How do I say it? "Po-ledge?" No. Is that right? No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: "Po-leg-ee."
KATE WILLIAMS: Polege. Polege. You know, you guys always trick me every time with that. Charlene,
are you here to present this item?
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're muted, Charlene.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I'm using my desk, so I want to make sure-- can you hear me now?
KATE WILLIAMS: Now we can hear you, yes. You have the floor.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Wonderful. So I'm going to work on sharing my screen. You may recall from my
very first presentation to the Operations and Safety Committee, it didn't work. So I will start by saying,
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. My pronouns are she and her. And I am here to provide a human
resources update for Q1 of 2023.
I'll go ahead and look at sharing my screen here, if you just bear with me. I even have John here to help
in case I mess it up. All right, I'm looking at-- let's see. Here we go. Are you seeing everything or just the
screen?
DEBRA JOHNSON: You got it!
KATE WILLIAMS: We got-- we're seeing what we're supposed to see, which is good.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I had John come in beforehand to make sure that I didn't mess it up. So thank
you, Madam Chair and members of the Operations and Safety Committee and additional members of the
Board who are in attendance this evening. As said, we're going to go-- I'm going to present. I'll be
providing regular updates at the request of this committee. They'll be quarterly. I appreciate that we are in
July and this is for Q1. We will expedite. We will catch up for Q2, and then these will-- my preference
would be to have them be on a very regular cadence.
So we get started. The first thing that we're here to talk about today are three things-- people power,
talent acquisition, and retention. And what we're looking to cover in people power, effectively, are our
metrics for the quarter. And then, as we talked about at the end of 2022, we're also just really focused on
talent acquisition and retention. Those are the two core areas for HR. It's not to say that any other areas
are not important. But the criticality of retaining and attracting talent into RTD is paramount.
Again, this is for Q1 only. So the stats that I'll be providing with our people power are for January 1, 2023,
to March 31, 2023. I would like to just point of reference call out to the committee that in the discussion
item report under people power, the second line, it reports the total number of employees for RTD as of
March 31, 2023. There is a typo. In the report, it indicates 2,685. In fact, you'll see in the presentation that
was also included, it's 2,675. The correct number is 2,675, and that was a typo. And I apologize. I just
wanted to call it to your attention.

So looking at people power, if we compare-- we're comparing the same quarter to 2022. So in Q1 of
2022, the agency had hired full-time and part-time employees-- this excludes contractors-- 74 new hires.
And in 2023, we've-- in the same quarter in 2023, we've doubled that number. There's a total of 148 in the
first three months of 2023.
Conversely, we have seen a decrease in the number of departures within the agency. In 2022 Q1, we
had 100 departures during that three-month period. And in the correlating three-month period in 2023,
there have been 82.
As you've heard me say before, ensuring that we have the right people in the right roles, doing the right
work at the right time, is critical to the agency's success. And in many respects, it is-- as I said, it's the
primary and sole focus of the Human Resources Department at this time.
While we're seeing a positive trend over from the same quarter in 2022, we still have more work to do.
When we dive deeper into these numbers and we explore the vacancy rates across key positions within
the agency, we see that while the agency has an overall vacancy rate of 16%, which is a 2% reduction
from 2022 year end, we have significant vacancies upwards of, as you'll see with transit police officers,
75%, maintenance of way at 40%, maintenance general repair and body shop under bus operations at
33%.
To just highlight this graph, it's the first time that I've brought this graph to the committee. At the
committee's request, I was reporting on bus operations and rail operations. As you see, we have included
transit police. And we will continue to build out a broader, more in depth HR dashboard capturing other
areas where we have high vacancies. But we're piecemealing that together. What's important is we have
the accurate representation and we have great partnership with bus operations, rail operations, and
transit police and HR, and we're continually engaging.
So with that, when you look at this slide, how to read it-- I appreciate there's a legend there. But if we look
at bus operators, you'll see a 20% vacancy rate. The arrow is red because it has gone up. It's gone up 2
percentage points from the end of 2022, and it's greater than a 15% vacancy rate.
Conversely, if there is a yellow arrow, that yellow arrow is pointing down as in light rail vehicle
maintenance at 32%. However, 32% vacancy rate, while it's an improvement, it's not where we need to
be. And so yellow is to reflect that we've made some improvement. But there is still a greater than 15%
overall vacancy rate for that position. So-- and then, conversely, if it's a green arrow, that means that it
had a drop over the previous reporting period and that it is 15% or less overall vacancy rate.
So a few things that I would like to highlight here. When we're looking at our recruitment process,
certainly with our bus operators, we have significant resources in HR and the talent acquisition team
working actively on increasing our bus operator filling those positions. So while we've seen an increase of
the 2%, we'll see later in the presentation that there were a number of retirements for our bus operators.
And so, again, as I talk later in the presentation, it's one of the areas that we need to be developing
strategies on forecasting those retirements and building out retention programs.
So talent acquisition-- what are we doing? Those are our metrics. We know we've made some
improvements. We're gaining some traction. But we still have a ways to go in some key areas. One of the
ways that we're addressing that is with our applicant traffic.

So here we're comparing, again-- you'll see throughout comparison in 2022 Q1 to 2023 Q1. And in 2022,
our applications received for open, active RTD positions were 1,822. That number in the same period in
2023 has increased by just shy of 1,000 applications. So in the first three months, we received over 2,800
applications for open positions within RTD. Pardon me.
That said, as we know, the competition fr talent remains fierce. As I stated in the 2022 year end, our focus
remains steadfast. We need to attract significant numbers of talent who have specialized skill sets in a
short period of time. And then once we hire them, we need to provide an employee experience that
makes them choose to stay.
With respect to that talent acquisition and the ability to attract traffic-- or to attract applicants-- pardon me- an increase of 55% is significant. When we look at to explore deeper, we want to look at, where are we
sourcing these applicants from?
In comparison to 2022, in 2023, the majority-- the solid majority of those applicants are coming directly
through the RTD website. When we look at that traffic coming through our website, that demonstrates a
clear link between-- a direct link to the work and collaboration within the Communications and
Engagement team. It is increasing RTD's profile within the Denver Metro area.
And it is drawing a key thing. What gets me excited about our traffic, going through our RTD website, is
because I might be interested or have an interest in a bus operator position or a service and cleaning
position. But when I get to the RTD website, I now see all the positions that we have available. And so
instead of just being a sole focus applying through a LinkedIn ad or an Indeed ad, when they get into our
website, they see and have opportunity for all positions.
Additionally, when we're looking at this, employee referrals continues to be a solid resource for
applicants. As I said previously, I'm a big fan of employee referrals because our employees know that-they know the expectations. They know the culture. They know who we are and what RTD has to offer.
They understand the mission, the vision, and we are more likely to recommend and encourage our
colleagues, family, friends to join an organization. And those individuals will often be alike.
And so we're seeing an increase in employee referrals, and we're also working on a deeper dive to see if
that conversion rate-- to use an HR term-- if that conversion rate of an employee referral actually returns a
longer retention. So as we're looking at turnover, are our employee referrals, referees, are we retaining
them?
Why is all this important? Why is applicant traffic important? Well, this slide is to reflect that, according to
the US Department of Transportation-- now these are May stats because things are not getting better.
They're actually-- the competition is getting worse. It's becoming more intense. Unemployment rate fell
0.9 percentage points from 4.5% in May 2022.
Additionally, the May 2023 rate is below the pre-pandemic rate of 4.5%. And that date was May of 2019.
So to put this in context, in May 2020, the unemployment in the transportation sector reached its highest
level during the COVID-19 pandemic. And that actually was 15.7%.
I do want to highlight that, given the volatility of the labor statistics in 2020 and 2021, because of the
impact of the pandemic, for our purposes, for benchmarking purposes, we will be using 2022, or we are
using 2022, in the Human Resources Department to assess progress and to assess-- to get a more
accurate picture of what's actually happening in the market.

The transit-- it's clear that the transportation sector-- pardon me-- as a whole is feeling a significant
impact. We're not alone in this challenge. What it means, though, is that we are competing for talent
across sectors, across industries, and even within ourselves. And what I mean by that, as we saw in the
prior slide, we have had some great success at promoting within. However, when we promote within,
which we fully support and encourage for employee growth and development, we then now need to fill
their position.
And so it doesn't change our overall vacancy rate, and it doesn't change where we are competing for
talent. So it's really critical that we reach applicants in real time and that we have an understanding of the
genesis of that applicant traffic, where is it coming from, because that allows us to do work with the
communications and engagement team to target, to specifically target, specific outreach activities. And
then we also need to be able to, what I say, respond in kind. We have to be able to create an applicant
traffic flow, once they get into our system, that is consistent, it's expedient, but it doesn't diminish the
quality of our hires.
So what are some of the process improvements that we're putting in place to try to attract and try to get
that talent? We have increased community outreach through career fairs, community engagement, and,
as I said, targeted marketing efforts. In Q1, there was-- we held a three-day RTD career fair in Boulder.
Some of you will recall or be familiar with that. We've also engaged an event at a local high school in
Denver and events in Westminster and Aurora.
Additionally, to address the increased applicant traffic and the agency's ability, as I said, to move potential
applicants through the process, we have added additional resources. That additional talent acquisition
specialist, in fact, has already started, and they are working directly. We've added them to the bus
operations recruitment activities. And we are continuing our process and are hopeful, pending a decision
shortly in the coming weeks, on being able to have a dedicated police recruiter.
Currently, our recruiter for police also manages other non-represented recruitments. And if you're not
aware recruitment process for police officers is very lengthy, it's really complex, and it's quite stringent.
And so it's very difficult. You can't cut corners, first off. You would not want to do so anywhere. But it's as
streamlined as it possibly can be. So having a dedicated recruiter just focused on that would be extremely
beneficial.
Additionally, we're looking to reduce our time to hire and fill. So one of the areas we've identified is
through our assessments. As I've mentioned before, we have a highly specialized and highly skilled
workforce. And in the recruitment process, we engage in pre-recruitment assessments. We are looking at
those assessments currently, and we've identified some to be updated that may be unnecessarily a
stringent, which is potentially excluding solid applicants. But if they can't pass the assessment, then they
don't qualify to move on in the process.
And so we need to look at our assessments and make sure that we are actually assessing what we need
and making room, so that when we bring people on, even though they're highly skilled and specialized,
they're not going to know every single thing about RTD and that we have the accurate assessment. So if
we're recruiting a mechanic and it's an entry-level mechanic position, then the assessment should be for
an entry-level mechanic position and not a senior mechanic, as an example.
Additionally, we were working on-- we were exploring utilizing technology to get those assessments in
real time and to have them being passed through as opposed-- it's a very manual process right now, and
we're exploring avenues for technology to move that through. While we're looking to reduce the time to

hire, as I said previously, we are not looking to reduce the quality. But we also do not want to be
unnecessarily excluding potential applicants.
So moving on to retention, as previously noted, the number of separations, compared from Q1 of 2022 to
Q1 of 2023, has dropped. And this is good. We want to continue to see this trend. These are all positive
trends. But we need to understand and explore more. So we're looking at voluntary turnover.
Of the 82 separations in Q1, the majority were voluntary. And of those, when we are looking at well over-I think it's 67% were voluntary turnovers. If we push on that, as I said previously, retirement is-- the top
26% of voluntary turnovers is retirement. That shouldn't be surprising because we would hope that all
people, they're retiring, not choosing to go elsewhere but retiring. They've fulfilled their career with RTD.
We are going to be working on building out models so that we can predict this and then adjust our
recruitment activities accordingly. However, pushing a little bit deeper, what's also really interesting that
we are exploring is that nearly 50% of the voluntary separations were either other employment-- so they
chose to depart RTD for other employment-- family reasons, or job abandonment. And just for
clarification, job abandonment is they just stop coming into work. So we don't know-- they haven't given
us a reason. We don't know why. And so we've had in that quarter, for those three reasons, almost 50%
of the voluntary turnover.
So taking a deeper dive into those numbers, what we're looking and what we're building-- and certainly
we'll be happy to provide further information and future briefings. As I said, the retirement-- modeling out
that retirement so we can start looking forward. I appreciate that we are in a sprint to try to fill the many
vacancies we have. But it can't preclude us from doing the strategic work of looking forward and
forecasting and modeling what you would normally do when you're not trying to so actively fill numerous
positions.
Additionally, with the tight labor market, we need to really take an internal look forward-- inward, pardon
me-- because there isn't just an abundance of individuals just sitting out there looking for employment.
When you consider the unemployment rate, that equates to roughly 1.6 jobs for every individual looking
for employment, every individual who's active in the employment market.
So we need to be looking at how we deliver our employee experience, things like our work-life balance,
what growth opportunities are available. So when we're thinking of people who have left for other
employment, the HR business partners are exploring those conversations and trying to understand why
did you leave other employment, what's driving that desire to go elsewhere. Is it work-life balance?
We do hear things relative to the scheduling, and in particular with bus operators and our rail operators,
it's a very challenging schedule, coming in with no seniority, and how do they achieve a work-life balance
and/or a set schedule? So we need to be looking at that and, of course, working with our partners at ATU.
But not suggesting there's anything there, but we need to take that deeper dive and push through, and we
are starting that work.
I will note that-- and I know that-- I think there's been a question asked before. Consistently, we're seeing
3% in this quarter-- only 3% were dissatisfied with the pay. And I believe that is two or three people who
left said that they were dissatisfied with pay, which is good. But we still need to find out what else so that
we can build the appropriate retention programs.

So in closing, what I would like to just say is that we will be exploring this information, and we are
continuing to push deeper into what's happening with our retention. We're adding resources in our
acquisition side. We're seeing great movement and presence in the market and interest in RTD. So how
are we going to get them in quicker without diminishing quality, and how are we going to retain them?
So I know I said that we're in a bit of a sprint. But this work is actually a marathon. We're not going to turn
everything over in a quarter. But we are seeing positive trends-- although small, we are seeing positive
trends moving in the right direction. And so with that, I would just summarize that, as I said, it's not a
marathon, but we are working as we can and as diligent as we can in a very focused way to attract
people into the roles and to retain them. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: You got it.
KATE WILLIAMS: I got it. OK. I'll forget it again next time. I see that there are several directors with their
hands up. It was a great presentation with a lot of very relevant information. Director Rosenthal, I see
your hand first.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Ms. Polege. Very good presentation.
Drilling down a little bit on the abandonment category, I'm wondering, what were the warning signs? Were
there any? And tied to that is, do you, as part of the departure-- or I guess, if they're abandoning, then you
really weren't able to talk with the former employees. But perhaps you were able to talk with their
supervisors and say, hey, do you know why they left, or was there any warning signs, that sort of thing.
Thanks.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, great question. So just for clarification, as well, these numbers come from
the supervisors directly. They're the ones who advise us what has happened, and they're having those
conversations. I would say that's some of the work, Director Rosenthal, that we're doing. So we're having
the conversations. We have data. We need to now analyze it and follow up and try to find those trends or
themes where , if we see a spike, if you will, if we see a spike, what's driving that spike?
So why people are leaving, we don't necessarily know with the job abandonment. But if someone's
leaving for family reasons or for the other categories, maybe those very individuals may have left because
they got other employment, and they should be categorized there. They just didn't choose to tell us. It
could be for a variety of reasons. But, yes, those conversations are happening, and that's part of the work
that we're doing in HR is to get that data, and then what are we going to do with it?
I'm a big fan of data-- a little bit of a geek around it. But more importantly, now that you have it and you
know, what are you going to do with it? And that's the phase where we're gathering the data right now,
and then we have to do that analysis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Are you good, Director Rosenthal? OK, Director Bouquet, I saw you next.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you very much, Ms. Polege, for that
presentation. I actually have a couple questions. I'll try to make them as brief as possible to respect
others' time. So my first question is regarding the collect-- [AUDIO OUT] for those who actually were able
to understand why they leave-- obviously those who abandoned, we're probably not going to get the
clearest information-- how are we collecting the information? Is it through an exit interview or an exit
survey? For those, why they're choosing to leave, how are we collecting that?

CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah. And so think-- I just want to be clear because you broke up a bit for myself
initially. So how we're collecting that, first off, except for the job abandonment, as we've already
discussed, we do two things. So we do a stay interview, first off, when people come on Board so we can
get information about what drew them to RTD, what's working well, how was their onboarding. And then
where possible, we do do exit interviews.
So the HR business partners do engage. Now, I say where possible because it's not mandated. So if
someone has chose to depart and they don't want to participate in an exit interview, we don't mandate
them to do so. And so we are a bit restricted to the willingness of the employee who's chose to leave. The
exit interviews are done by HR, the reasons, and there's also the information that comes from the
supervisors.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm going to turn off my camera, just based on my internet connection. So assuming
it's an exit interview, it wouldn't be anonymous then, would it? OK.
CHARLENE POLEGE: So it's not anonymous. But we do-- as an HR entity, we don't share that
information because that is personal to that employee. So that is their personal information. And we do
create an environment because we want them to share things or feel comfortable to share things that
maybe we wouldn't want to hear but it's important that we do hear. So the aggregate-- as I said, when
we're looking at this information, we're looking for the trends and themes. And then that would be reported
as an aggregate.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, yeah, I guess my question would be looking from an employee standpoint of, in
an exit interview, I know that we respect your ideas and opinions and everything, but-- sorry, I'm watching
dogs, too, so pardon me for extra noise. But I guess the overall theme would be, oh, are people being
truthful in an exit interview, ultimately, I guess would just kind of be the overall thing that I would look at.
Do we collect how long each employee was with RTD before exiting?
CHARLENE POLEGE: We do. We do. And I can tell you that the group greatest at risk is one to three
years of service.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, that's exactly information that, if possible for the Q2 report or Q3 report, that'd be
excellent for us as a Board of Directors to look at. I'm looking at it a lens as a public school teacher where
I think it's very similar. It is one to three years when it comes down to exiting the profession or exiting your
job that you're at. And so pinpointing what that correlation is and kind of identifying would be pretty
important.
Next one is going to be-- so the obvious one is that 75% vacancy when it comes to transit police officers.
Is that because of our new goal of adding 40 new officers in a year?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yes and no. So yes, that does include that. So it does increase the numbers. But
additionally, as I indicated, it's a very lengthy process. And while that is for Q1, I can tell you that I think
last conversation I had there were over 45 applicants in the, quote, unquote, "queue" who were going
through the process. And the process-- the length and duration and extent of the process is predicated
often on whether you're already post-certified or not. So is it a lateral move from another police
department or are you a new recruit? It takes a bit longer.
But those numbers have shifted already. There's significant traction being made. And as noted in that, I
just want to highlight in the presentation, like the commander, that's one position, that 10%. I don't have it

up in front of me anymore. But that's one position. Chief Fitzgerald has been diligently focused, as well,
on ensuring that he has the leadership in place in order to lead all of these officers when we bring them
on board. So it's shifting regularly. I can't give you another number other than those 45. But we are
projecting in future months to bring on bundles of 10, hopefully, in a given month.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. This is my last question for now. I'm going to respect anyone
else if others get to my question. So I'm actually looking at our Workday website because you said, based
on the quarter 1 information, that RTD website I'm assuming is that Workday website. Correct? Of-CHARLENE POLEGE: Are you looking at the-- is it the-- I'm not sure which website you're looking at. Is it
the HR-JULIEN BOUQUET: It's rtd-denver.com/careers. Is that what you're referring to in your presentation?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so when you actually hit onto it and you hit onto Careers, it will post the amount
of careers we have in each of what's classified on this website as job family. So for instance, if I look at
security, it says there's currently two jobs. And it says the posting is 30 plus days ago. I'm just curious-and I'm obviously not an HR expert.
But I'm curious if we've talked or explored options of listing the true amount of jobs or officers, for
example, in that needed compared to, oh, hey, we have a position-- we have multiple positions for transit
police officer. And then we have a lateral transit police officer position. That's what's listed on the website
currently.
As someone who might be looking for employment, I might look at that and say, this has been posted 30
days ago. They're probably already in the hiring process. These are the only two transit police officer jobs
they're looking for. That, again, is coming from me as a different lens as an educator where it'll post, hey,
there's 16 social studies jobs needed in our district. I just make that comment. I'm just curious if it has
been explored of, hey, maybe if that's a technique to potentially look into of, hey, this is the amount of
officers we need or transit police officers we need. We are posting it as in real time. I guess that would be
my comment slash kind of question. But thank you again for answering everything.
CHARLENE POLEGE: So if I may, Madam Chair, just add one piece there. So thank you for the
comment. There's a lot in there, and there's a couple things I'd want to explore. So there is a job family,
and you are correct. There could be-- as we see here with the police officers, there's a number-- there's
dozens of available positions. I would want to step back and have an opportunity to look, as well, at the
posting itself. Often the postings have language that will show the number of positions. I'm not familiar. I
haven't looked at it specifically, but I certainly will go and look.
And/or additionally, there's language often that's included, something to the effect that says the position
will remain open until all-- or the posting will remain open until all positions are filled. But again, I'd like to
step away. I'll definitely take a look at that and see. And any improvement that we can make to your point
of somebody might not apply if they think that it's 30 days and/or they think, well, there's only two
positions. They may not choose to put their hat into the proverbial ring. But certainly, we'll take a look at
that. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you for that discussion. Director Ruscha, I see your hand next.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions, as well. So the first is about
custodial staff and cleaning. I anecdotally-- and I guess I've heard this from folks, too. I don't feel like we
keep our system as clean as we used to, particularly on some of our light rail lines. And I was wondering
if you had any insight if that is a staffing issue or a contractor issue. I'm just not familiar where that
responsibility falls, if those are internal jobs or if that's an external contractor.
CHARLENE POLEGE: If I may, Director Ruscha. First off, I would point out that there has been a
significant increase or decrease-- decrease in vacancy rate, increase of full-time, part-time RTD staff who
have been hired within the service cleaning and category. And in fact, that vacancy rate is now sitting at
14%. I would have to dig deeper on the actual numbers. I don't have that there.
That said, I do recall, at the end of 2022, that position itself-- that's a more than half decrease. So there's
been significant efforts in the first quarter to hire service and cleaning staff. With respect to your comment
on the cleaning from an HR perspective, our role is to be hiring the staff to step in. And I wouldn't feel
equipped or appropriate for me to step in and comment on that. But I can say that there has been a
significant increase in RTD full-time and part-time staff in those roles in particular. That was-- when I
joined in late December, that was, along with bus operators and rail operators, a primary focus of the
talent acquisition team.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If-- well, I guess a way to rephrase it or another way to ask, any of these-- is that
lowered vacancy rate, that green arrow on custodial, due to outsourcing? I didn't ask you to make a
comment about the state of our-- if our facilities are clean. But rather, I was just trying to figure out if
staffing might be a reason as to why we are potentially having issues maintaining. But I can-- it doesn't
seem like that's-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I can address this, I'd appreciate it, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Ruscha, there's multiple factors as it relates to the cleanliness of our
system. First and foremost, at this agency, traditionally, we have done something differently than most
transit agencies of which I'm familiar with in the industry as a whole whereby we were utilizing service and
cleaning staff to also move rail cars. In order to move rail cars, you have to know how to operate a rail
car.
So when you're thinking about the option, do I want to be a car cleaner-- or since I basically received
certification to operate a rail car, I may opt to operate a rail car because operating a rail car yields higher
pay. That's one of the issues at hand. Secondly, as it relates to contracted staff, recognizing that we, as a
leadership team, have had conversations because we recognize that we are dealing with a myriad of
different factors that basically did not germinate from our own doing as a regional transportation provider
but are byproducts of the community as a whole.
So when somebody is cleaning a rail consist before it pulls out into service delivery, there could be a
multitude of different issues that happen while that train is in service, thereby limiting the ability to clean
such rail car. While we've asked our light rail operators to walk through the consists and pick up trash and
debris and things of that nature, that's not really clearly incorporated into their job description.

But there has been a willingness on the behalf of our team members to do that. But recognizing some of
the behaviors-- and this was clearly called out and specified during the public comment period at the June
27 meeting. One could clearly understand how there could be some trepidation and reluctance on behalf
of our train operators to actually engage in that activity.
So moreover, the other aspect that I would like to broach is that, as a team, we have looked to see what
might be within our purview that does not hinder our collective bargaining agreement relative to
contracting out some elements of service to keep our cars in a state of good repair. So rounding that all
out, recognizing that we do not have what we call a yard master to move around rail car consists in the
yard, that we oftentimes use people that are doing service and cleaning to do that, that position is hard to
recruit for, recognizing the requirements and the pay that's required. So we are taking steps to see what
might we do going forward.
And then, secondly, recognizing we want to adhere to a collective bargaining agreement because we
pride ourselves on being good partners of labor. We have to, in turn, look at what is permissible within the
confines and work in tandem with our Union partners. So thank you very kindly, Madam Chair, for the
opportunity to address that question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Ruscha, did that answer your question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: That did. That was a more thorough answer. I appreciate it. I had a few more related
to the other slides. So the first was the-- and I don't remember what slide we were on, but where it says
"Deeper Dive," so page 450 in the packet, 14 on the presentation.
On the turnover percentages-- so this adds up to 78%. And from my understanding, unless I
midunderstood, folks were only given the opportunity to select one of these options. Is that correct? Or
they could select multiple?
CHARLENE POLEGE: They could select multiple. There's a primary reason, and then there's a
secondary. However, individuals don't always provide a secondary.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK thanks, because I wasn't sure if it wasn't adding up to 100% because not
everyone filled it out or if it wasn't adding up to 100% because there were multiple options selected. And
then the other comment-- question, I guess, had is that I've heard-- and I've heard this for years, but even
more recently that they've applied for jobs and haven't heard back, that we don't-- they don't get even a
confirmation email. And I was wondering if that is something that we have changed yet in terms of
communications or if there's a plan for that, even just like an automated email or-- if you could address
that.
CHARLENE POLEGE: So thank you, Director Ruscha. I will follow up with our talent acquisition manager.
First off, yes, it does take a long time. It takes longer-- when say long time, it takes longer than we would
like-- there's no hiding that-- to get back to candidates. And that's why adding additional resources-- and
as you can see, if we've had an increase of nearly 1,000 applicants in one month, that's great. But we
have to be able to-- to use an HR term, we have to be able to process and to review and assess those
candidates.
So we are working on that, and we are not where we need to be. And I will own the state of where we're
at today. With respect to if they receive a confirmation email or not, I will follow up and respond back if

that permits yourself and yourself, Madam Chair, because I believe that the system does provide an
automatic response that your application has been received.
If they do get something-- now, if you're asking-- I want to affirm that happens. I believe that that does. I'm
pretty certain that happens every time automatically. If it is the ask of I've applied for position A, and I've
got that email, and then it's three weeks to three months later, and I still haven't heard anything, that's
likely because that position is still being recruited to. Once a position is closed is when all notifications
would happen. So I just want to clarify. Is it they're getting zero response or they're not getting the
response that says, we regret to inform you that you were not the selected applicant?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, what I'd heard from one person is that they didn't get a confirmation email. So I
don't know if it's a bug in the system or maybe just certain job postings. But I wanted to flag that. And then
I have a clarifying question based on what you just said. Did you say that when a job closes, does that
applicant get a notification that they were not selected for that position?
CHARLENE POLEGE: My understanding-JOYANN RUSCHA: What I'm trying to ascertain is, what automatic communications go out from
Workday? Not manual, but the automatic ones.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Right. I will confirm. Thank you for the flag on the confirmation email because
certainly we want to make sure that we are responding and that the system is doing what it's designed to
do. And yes, when a position closes, anyone who applied on that should be receiving a confirmation
email. Now, I will double check. And I will report back and affirm.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I see Director Broom's hand next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had a question about leave of absence. Do we have a policy that deals
with that? I know from time to time, people will leave to finish up a degree or something like that or even
somebody returning from pregnancy leave. What is our policy on that?
CHARLENE POLEGE: So to answer your question, Director Broom, do we have a policy on leave of
absence, yes, we have policy and procedure on leave of absence. Respectfully, I have not myself
personally read every policy, so it would be difficult and not prudent for me to actually respond. But I'm
happy to follow up with the committee. I mean no disrespect to the question, I just-- we have hundreds of
policies, and I'm not fully breadth at the top of my head with all of them. But we do have an approval
process for when people need to take a leave of absence for specific reasons, whether that are parental
leave, whether it be an education leave. There is a process in place for that.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Davidson, I see your hand.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Chair Williams. Thanks for letting me participate. I'll be brief. I just
wanted to say, Ms. Polege, not just thank you for an incredibly helpful and data-rich presentation that was
as simple as it was data rich, which is hard to do. I also just want to thank you for going on this journey
with us. I appreciated the comments you made about the difficulty of competing, not just in transit but also

at large right now. And in order to act smart and compete smart, we need the right people on the job, and
we need to be very data rich. So thank you for doing that.
And it dawns on me that the last two audit risk assessments that we did internal management flagged
twice that the absence of data within RTD and the difficulty of obtaining and acting on it was a risk to the
agency. And what you showed tonight shows tremendous improvement in this area and helps us really
manage and act on things. I think it's tempting and easy to say, oh, we got to increase pay or we got to
change this benefit or that benefit or tweak this or do this job fair or this website. And it's really hard to do
that without the type of information you shared, and it's, I think, very helpful for the committee and the
Board to be able to see that the way you presented it. And so thank you for going on this journey with
RTD. That's all.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson. I can only echo that. I thought that was good
information presented in a way that we could get a hold of. And I might have some additional questions.
But I think I'm going to wait and email them to you afterwards. And I want to note that Mr. Kroll has been
great about sharing with all of the directors when he gets a question that might be relevant to everybody.
So maybe we'll go down that path. OK, I see leftover hands. I believe Director Davidson and Director
Broom have leftover hands, unless either one of you have an additional question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That is correct. My apologies. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's OK. I'm good at reading those. OK, seeing nobody else, thank you, Ms. Polege.
That was nice. There are not any other matters that I am aware of to discuss this evening. And so I would
like to remind everyone that this committee is not scheduled to meet in the month of August. The next
Operations and Safety Committee meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, September 13. It will be at the
same time and the same location. Unless anyone has anything else, I'm going to call this meeting
adjourned at 7:00-- oh, I see-- Director Ruscha, I see your hand.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just briefly, I was wondering-- and I think this is the right
committee-- if staff could give maybe a brief update and some context on the status of the downtown
Boulder station as it's been shut down for six months. And I think it's not clear to some folks as to why it's
taking so long. And I would appreciate any broader context if possible.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not sure if there's anybody at this meeting that is ready to speak to that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Kroll has his hand up.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
JACK KROLL: All I was going to say, Director Ruscha, is that I've seen a great deal of email traffic on this
issue today. And I believe the administration is formulating a very detailed response that will be out to the
Board in some time-- in relatively soon. I don't know, CEO Johnson, if you wanted to add to that-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may. Keeping in mind that as it relates to what's happening at Boulder, we
had provided communique relative to what we needed to do in reference to replacing the HVAC systems
and things of the like very analogous to what we did when we encountered the issue with our elevator
due to the rainwater and all of the implications. Some of these elements are beyond our control.

So recognizing that we are working on getting information, and once we have that available, we will
disseminate that. We have been in communication with members of the Boulder County Commission and
the representatives, specifically the chair, and we have participated in meetings, and we have had
discussions, and we are providing a report that will be disseminated going forward.
And we're in the process of doing that. Quite naturally, we want to ensure that there is information that will
be useful. We have been communicating with our customers and working with our partners within the city
of Boulder as well. And all of our operations around that we have been communicated. So yes. I just was
made aware of the inquiry just this afternoon, as I was not copied on that transmittal, and received the
information. So recognizing that information just came to my attention maybe a couple hours ago we. Will
do our best to disseminate information to this full body. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity, Madam
Chair, to address.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely. Director Ruscha, are you good waiting until we all get an answer?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, of course, as long as the answer is coming. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am. OK, one more time. All right, let's see. What do we get now? We've gone
to 7:05, and I'm going to call this meeting adjourned. And I'll see you all in September. Thank you.

