Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, April 12, 2007
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 17, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Thursday, April 12, 2007 at 4:30 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bill Elfenbein, Vice-Chair; Bill Christopher (via
phone), Bruce Daly, Chris Martinez (via phone), Bill McMullen,
John Tayer (via phone), Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Bruce Abel, Scott Reed, Paula Perdue,
Sherry Ellebracht, Carolyn Conover, Joe Smith, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Julie McKenna, Kevin Flynn, Jeff Leib, L.W.
Morrow, Marc Perla, Bill Jones, Holman Carter, Carolyn Siegel,
Barry Reiling, Jerry Arvidson, Danny Tomlinson, Scott Chase,
Steve Nickerson
****

Call to Order:

Chair Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:33 p.m.

I. Privatization Legislation – SB 251 “Concerning the provision of vehicular service
of the Regional Transportation District by private businesses.” Copies of the bill
were distributed to the Committee members along with a memo from Cal
Marsella titled “Fiscal Note Information and Impact Analysis for SB 07-251.”
Copies of the bill and the memo are available for viewing in the Legislative
Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook.
Director McMullen began the discussion with a summary of the bill. This bill
changes the current privatization requirement. Currently the legislation reads
that there shall be no less than 50% privatized routes (rubber tire service) and
this bill would change that to no more than 55% privatized routes. This bill does
not change the District’s operations. Should something happen in the future that
would require RTD to pick up more Contracted Services they would be able to
do that under this bill. Director McMullen views this as proactive measure for
the District and he would like to put forward a resolution supporting the bill.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, April 12, 2007
Page 2 of 4
Holman Carter, President of ATU Local 1001, mentioned that this is the same
bill that was proposed before the Committee back in January.
Cal Marsella spoke about possible fiscal impacts of the bill. With this new bill
there is no minimum amount required for contracting. Cal Marsella’s concern is
that no minimum level of contracted services could be an item in collective
bargaining demands. If it became a collective bargaining issue, there are several
cost implications to the District.
These implications are outlined in the
memorandum. Mr. Marsella stated that this bill could take control of the level of
contracting out of the Board of Directors’ hands.
Director Christopher said that he saw this as “potential huge budget impact on
RTD if this were to become a collective bargaining issue.” Director Christopher
said that he feels there is currently a very good balance between union and
contractors and that there is not a need to change things. Director Christopher
asked to hear from the union whether or not this would be pursued as a
collective bargaining issue in the future.
Holman Carter said that the union has not contemplated this as a collective
bargaining bill. This is a bill to give the flexibility to the RTD Board, something
that has not been a part of the bill since it was made law back in the 1980s.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, gave a clarification on the two types of collective
bargaining and how this bill could affect them.
Director Elfenbein said he viewed this as an “unexploded bomb” that could go
off at any time. Director Elfenbein feels that the system is working well the way
it is and no change is needed.
Director Daly said that the collective bargaining issue is “conjecture.” Director
Daly does not see a threat and feels the Board is responsible enough to make
decisions with management. This is not an “anti-privatization” bill.
Jenifer Brandeberry, lobbyist for the District spoke on the status of the bill. SB251 was introduced on April 11, 2007 and was heard today (April 12, 2007) in
Transportation and passed out of Committee on a party line vote (4-3). Second
reading would be Tuesday, April 17, 2007 at the earliest and most likely would
read on Wednesday, April 18, 2007.
Director Christopher thought that he would like to see an amendment made to
the bill that would clearly say this could not be a matter of collective bargaining.
There would be no floor or ceiling on the percentage of contracted routes and
the amount of privatization could not be a collective bargaining issue.
Director McMullen expressed that he hoped the District would move forward
positively. The Union has come forward twice to help management on two very
important issues; 1) Overtime issues and 2) the mechanics raise in exchange for

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, April 12, 2007
Page 3 of 4
the privatization of fare inspectors. Director McMullen feels the Union has been
more than fair and that authority is still in the hands of the Board.
Cal Marsella said that Director Christopher’s idea of an amendment makes sense.
If the collective bargaining issue is addressed, he would support the legislation.
Motion:

Director Christopher
made a motion to
propose an amendment
where there would be no
floor or no ceiling in the
bill and it could not be a
matter of collective
bargaining. If the
amendment was
successful, the Board
would support the bill.

Second:

Director
Elfenbein
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion failed on a 44
vote.
(Elfenbein,
Christopher, Pulliam and
Tayer voted yes – Daly,
Martinez, McMullen, and
Yamrick voted no)

Director McMullen spoke about trust issues between the District and the Union.
Director Daly asked for ATU’s opinion on the bill.
Bill Jones of the ATU said that this is the same bill that was proposed two
months ago and why did these arguments not come up then.
Cal Marsella said that there was no reaction because there was no actual bill.
Director Martinez relayed Director Ruchman’s support for the original bill.
Director Martinez did not like the idea of no floor and no ceiling. He would like
to see the bill with an amendment regarding the collective bargaining issue.
Director Christopher said he wanted to keep his amendment with the no floor
and no ceiling clause.
Motion:

Director Martinez
made a motion to

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, April 12, 2007
Page 4 of 4
support the original bill
with a collective
bargaining provision and
a cap of 55% privatized
service.
Second:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Christopher
seconded the motion.

The motion passed on a
7-1 vote (Director Daly
opposed).

Director Tayer thanked the Union for bringing this forward; this issue should
have been brought forward by the Board.
Chair Pulliam said that this motion will direct our lobbyists to go to the
legislature to find a sponsor for the amendment and communicate the Board’s
support of the bill. Jenifer Brandeberry was tasked to talk to the sponsor first to
see if he is receptive to this amendment.
II. Adjournment - Chair Pulliam adjourned the meeting at 5:26 p.m.

