Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 28,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

September 28, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 28,
2010 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members
Present:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez; Directors Bagley, Busck, Daly, McMullen,
Malpiede, Pulliam, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen.

Board Members
Absent:
Chair Kemp; Directors Brohl, Christopher, Cohen, and James
Staff Present: Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Austin Jenkins, Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Anthony
Menendez, Todd Nikkel, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed,
Daria Serna, Scott Roberts, Lisa Trujillo, Pauletta Tonilas, Christina Tubb, Phil
Washington
Others Present:
Hoy * * *

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Lorraine Anderson, Kim Gillam, Larry

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the Study Session meeting to
order at 5:33 p.m.

Chair Pro tem Martinez expressed congratulations to Pauletta Tonilas and Liz
Viscardi, both CSU alumni, for receiving CSU Media Festival Awards.
I. Communications Assessment
Scott Reed provided the communications assessment from Zuma, the external
firm hired by RTD to provide an assessment on RTD’s communications and
marketing.
Scott Reed shared the recommendations on branding …………….

II.

2011 Requested Budget
Doug MacLeod and Todd Nikkel presented this item. Doug MacLeod indicated
these numbers were based on Option 6. Doug MacLeod pointed out some of
the changes between the 2010 amended budget and the 2011 recommended

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 28,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 4
budget as included in the Board packet. He also highlighted the Federal grants
as a reduction in sources of funds from 2010 to the requested 2011 budget.
The current activity for the base system in 2011 from the 2010 amended
budget reflected a decrease of $34,340. The current activity reflected for
FasTracks indicates a small increase over the 2010 amended budget.
Todd Nikkel walked briskly through the PowerPoint presentation. General
Manager Washington noted that the proposed service adjustment would
reduce service requirement. The current estimate is approximately 22 (11 on
contract and 11 RTD employees.) This does not imply a layoff but would be
part of the overall adjustment in the recruitment level.
Todd referred the Board to the next steps with an anticipated posting of the
2011 requested budget on October 9/10 and the public hearing and Board
adoption of the 2011 budget at the November 23 Board meeting.
For a copy of the full budget presentation, please refer to the study session
minutes located in the Board office.
Questions/comments from RTD Board members:
Director Tayer requested a compilation of all reserves that we have and to
provide a white paper on implications/risks we face with this levels of reserves
(i.e. impact on bond ratings, can these reserves be moved, etc).
Director Martinez stated he wants to see the projected tax revenue before a
decision is made for the service route changes.
Some of the other questions and comments asked by the Board members
were answered.

III.

Board Approval Process for GM 2010 and 2011 Goal Setting
Director Busck shared that the General Manager 2010 goals would reflect the
core goals only and the 2011 goals will include both core goals and the task
goals as identified in the Board Advance planning session in April of 2010.
They will be a part of the October 8th packet for the full review. Board
members with questions or comments should contact their buddy or Director
Busck. The target is to finalize approval of these goals in the October 26
Board meeting.
Director Bagley added that the GM Oversight and Performance Management
committee has already approved these goals.

VI.

Guidelines for Board Executive Committee Elections
Director Busck provided the background on why this is an item. Director
Brohl had raised issues related to having slates for the Executive Committee.
This draft is an attempt by Director Busck and Director Martinez to offer a

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 28,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 4
process for declaring a candidacy for the Executive Committee. The question
on the table is whether this should be a policy or a revision in the Bylaws.
Director Busck perspective is it should be a policy which will be easier to
change than making a Bylaw change.
Director Pulliam identified problems and issues with this process.
He
expressed that having the Chair to declare his candidate in May forego
including the new Board members in the process. Incoming Board members
don’t have a say in the process. This policy locks them in.
Director Busck disagreed with this and stated the language says “new Board
members may be eligible to run but it is not recommended…” He also
reminded the Board that new Board members are not eligible to vote until
sworn in at the first of the year which is the same time as the election of
officers. He pointed out language in the process that states new Board
members will be apprised of the process and a description of the positions
will be provided as part of the new Board orientation.
Director O’Boyle asked what was the reasoning behind the Chair declaring his
candidacy in May. Director Busck explained.
Director Martinez indicated he has some concerns over whether this should
be policy. What they are attempting to do is to make the process open and
fair for all the Board members to run. The Board members have a lot of work
on their plate and need to focus on getting the job done rather than to be
distracted by a process. Board members are concerned over how to govern
the District. Of late, since all of our meetings have open structure, being on
the Executive committee does not have any more power.
The Board members were in general agreement this should be a policy and
not a Bylaw change.

VII.

Paperless Board Packet Status
Director Tobiassen and Paula Perdue provided a brief update to the Board
members on the status of the request for paperless packets by Chair Kemp
and Director Busck. Director Tobiassen also loaded Board packets to I-Pad
and Netbook for the Board members to review.
Director Tobiassen also indicated that IT has been working on a survey which
will come out to the Board members around the first week in October.
A copy of this high level presentation is included with these minutes.
Questions/Comments from Board members:
 Director Bagley indicated he was looking for a simple method to store
documents. He wants a mobile device that is simple to download
anywhere he may be. He does not want a bulky device like a laptop and

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 28,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 4












VII.

a Kendall device or IPad will do him good. This also needs to be cost
justifiable.
Director Busck indicated this is financially the right thing to do. He wants
a system that will tie into the rest of RTD. We need to be looking at the
rest of the staff. He is concerned about confidentiality and making it
simple. He does not care to store 30-40 MB files-wants to keep it
simple. He needs it to be user friendly and can print. He wants to be
able to push a button to send something to print that when he arrives, it
is printed. This can be a phased in approach but it needs to be kept
simple.
Director Tayer said he is a paper guy and need access to be able to
highlight and make notes on the documents.
Director Malpiede noted this was not simple matter. The devices that
the Board members use can be simple but the real cost of software, etc
is in the back end. She raised the question if Board members would be
willing to give us some of their local expense to finance.
Director Pulliam noted this was futuristic and he was not sure we can
achieve total paperless. He has the concerns of confidentiality and
budgetary costs.
He also noted he has difficulty reading large
documents from a screen.
Director Daly needed clarification of the notebook and IPad. He noted we
can do an incremental start with a “Vega” and add to it.
Director O’Boyle stated he still prefers paper and is not sure this will be a
cost effective solution. He will need a new computer.
Director McMullen stated we should check out other government entities
such as Greenwood Village who are using paperless packets. Paula
Perdue responded they have talked to at least five entities that include
Greenwood Village. Paperless packets will also be demonstrated at the
APTA annual in San Antonio.

Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 7:00 p.m.

