2024-01-17
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. It is 6:50 PM and the Wednesday, January 17 Performance Committee will
now come to order. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you
are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that Committee meetings of the RD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
Please Visit rtd-denver.com and a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I
would now like to call the roll for the Committee members. Director Buzek? I don't see Director Buzek
here yet. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger is out of town. Director Guzman?
JACK KROLL: See that he's still logged in, but perhaps he stepped away.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am here. Let's try again to see if we have Director Buzek.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, Director Buzek when we polled for this indicated he was not
available to stick around after the Operations and Safety Committee meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that means we have two absent.
JACK KROLL: Correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: There's Director-- there's Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here. Sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I show that we have Directors Davidson, Guzman, Rosenthal, Tisdale, and
myself in attendance and we have two absent. So there are five Directors present, which is a quorum.
Thank you.

I'd now like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the Committee regard ing any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your
phone.
During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised for public comment, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Director Catlin, there are no hands raised.
PEGGY CATLIN: And we have not received any emails.
JACK KROLL: That's correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So seeing none-- no members in the-- participants in the queue, we will now close
the public comment period at this time. There is one recommended action on the agenda this evening.
The action is for the sixth amendment to GM CEO employment agreement, and it's for the Board of
Directors to adopt a sixth amendment to the employment agreement with General Manager and CEO
Debra A. Johnson to increase her base salary by 1.8% from $395,120 to $402,325 effective retroactively
November 9, 2023, which is consistent with the Board-adopted GM CEO compensation philosophy and
compensation base salary range that we discussed at the end of 2023. Do we have a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I make a motion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Rosenthal moved. Is there a second?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll second, Guzman.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. So we have Directors Rosenthal and Directors Guzman as first and-- as
movement and second. I would like to ask previous Committee Chair Davidson and current Board Chair
to present this item, and then ask that Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, add any pertinent
information. Mr. Davidson, the floor is yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. Appreciate it. Thank you for due members of the
Committee. I'll keep this brief. This is the result of a long-time-coming project that initiated with a
compensation analysis that was conducted pursuant to the General Manager and CEO's current
agreement. This is the report that we frequently refer to as the Gallagher Report, Gallagher being the
benefit services vendor that assisted the Board with its compensation analysis for the position of General
Manager and CEO of the agency.
I won't go through all of the details that are contained within your packet. I know we have had discussions
on this matter. But I will highlight a few things in particular. As I know my colleagues are well aware, the
Office of the State Auditor dating all the way back to 2010 had encouraged this Board to develop several
things to inform the base salary pay and total compensation of our General Manager and CEO.
One is the development of a formal compensation philosophy that would become our north star or our
guidepost as to how we establish the base salary and compensation package for the General Manager
and CEO. As we are all aware, that compensation philosophy that this Board had was rather out of date,

not readily available, and not really pertinent. And therefore this Board, in partnership with Chief People
Officer Charlene Polege, developed and adopted a new flexible compensation philosophy mid last year.
And certainly, we are incredibly grateful to CPO Polege's assistance in that matter.
That compensation philosophy called for us to establish a market-competitive, set-based salary range for
our General Manager and CEO. Also, the Office of the State Auditor indicated that it would be best
practice for this Board to have a base salary range for the position of General Manager and CEO.
As we will all recall, we were recommended a salary range in the Gallagher Report that was conducted
for this Board of Directors and adopted by this Board of Directors. Ultimately, we aged that salary range
because that salary range had aged by a year since we had adopted the report known as the Gallagher
Report.
We used the Employment Cost Index to age that base salary range. And ultimately last year, the
Performance Committee adopted a base salary range for the position of General Manager and CEO that
has a minimum of $292,600 and a maximum of $512,050.
Ultimately, the recommendation before you is in-- to remain consistent with our compensation philosophy
is to move our current General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson to the midpoint of our adopted base
salary range. That would be moving to a base salary of $402,325.
This is, again, consistent with our compensation philosophy, as well as our adopted base salary range. It
is also applying data and methodology to our range and to our base salary, something that this Board
was called upon to do many years ago. And I'm proud to say we have made our strides and gotten so
done. I'd like to just finish by highlighting that Ms. Johnson's education and more than 30 years of transit
sector experience and more than 20 years of experience in senior C-suite leadership certainly justify her
position in the midpoint of this range, and I think is highly pertinent as we consider this recommended
action.
I'll also just remind everybody, as we are well aware, we have many things to do to ensure that we
maintain a data-centric and data-informed approach. This certainly is not a final statement of all of the
work the Performance Committee needs to do to remain consistent with our compensation philosophy,
but certainly it's a very important stride in applying data and thoughtfulness to the base salary.
So with that, I'll open up for-- I'm certainly happy to entertain any questions or discussion on the matter.
And I will yield back the Committee Chair Catlin. Thank you very much for your time. And I'd be remiss in
not thanking Ms. Johnson for her incredible patience in this process, given that the compensation
analysis was a part of the employment contract she negotiated with this agency. With that, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I would like to concur with your remarks about Ms.
Johnson's incredible patience. We are delinquent in getting this done, and I'm glad to say that we finally
have gotten it done. Ms. Polege, do you have anything to add to Chair Davidson's report?
CHARLENE POLEGE: No, not at this time, Chair. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. No, not at this
time. Director Davidson was very clear and succinct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. I agree. Thank you. I think it's important, since this is a fairly significant ask of this
Committee, that we get participation from all of our members followed by participation from Board
members who are not on the Committee. So I'm going to ask each of you in turn-- and I apologize for

putting you on the spot-- to provide some comments, beginning with-- you already got Director Davidson's
presentation, but I'd like to begin with Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I do not have any comments at this time, so I am happy to yield the floor.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I appreciate the General Manager and CEO's
patience, but I also appreciate her performance. And coming back from the really dark times of COVID,
the crisis that still is rippling through today and other various crises and managing a large agency, I think
she's been extremely adept. And so I just want to say for the record and for anyone listening that I
appreciate her work and her leadership.
And of course, she would probably be the first to say, oh, it's not just all me. And her team and the entire
team, and that means all of our drivers, all of our operators, all of our mechanics. Everybody who works at
RTD, thank you for all your work, and thank you to our General Manager CEO.
So what we're proposing here is really just to go to midpoint. And so that just means between all of the
different numbers that we're entertaining between the lowest end and the highest end, this is in the
middle. And you know, much as I would prefer to go above the midpoint, this is certainly a strong move.
This is a fair move.
But I think our General Manager is doing such a great job that I really look forward to working on making
changes for the next year that I think are going to even elevate incentives for her. So that is really one of
my main points that I'd like to make.
But perhaps if we could hear maybe a little bit more about-- obviously, I've described it a little bit, this
concept of the midpoint. But perhaps Ms. Polege can go into a little bit more detail about that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Certainly. And thank you, Director Rosenthal. Ms. Polege, do you have any detail to
add to that?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Thank you, Madam Chair and Director Rosenthal. What I would add is that
there is a pay range, and midpoint effectively-- the compensation philosophy targets at midpoint. And
then when you are looking-- and we do this in the agency for our nonrepresented staff when we're
bringing them in-- you're looking at the years of experience and knowledge.
And at midpoint, one would expect that an individual hired at midpoint would be what we often call-- at job
rate is another term. That means that they are fully capable and expected to perform in that position.
They're not new in their role. They understand how to function in their role. But they're also not at the top
end where this is someone who maybe could do this job in their sleep.
I'm not sure if could do their job in their sleep here because there's a lot of moving parts. But really,
midpoint just means it's at job rate, and the expectation is that the performance would-- the individual, the
incumbent would be able to perform the expectations that the Board would have for them within the job
description.
The other piece I would say is that it also is something that we use throughout the agency for
nonrepresented staff. And again, the expectation is at midpoint, that's someone that you would typically

see who has five years of experience in their role. So certainly, GM Johnson has significantly more
experience than five years leading large organizations or being in very senior C-suite positions.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And for the record, how long has the General Manager CEO been General Manager
CEO of RTD for folks out there who don't know?
CHARLENE POLEGE: So that commenced in November of 2020 is how long she has been at the CEO
and-- General Manager and CEO at RTD. And when we are looking from a compensation perspective in
the agency, we would also take into consideration experience-- like experience at prior employers as well.
So that also equates. If you were to include that-- I wouldn't want to speak for GM and CEO Johnson, but
it's definitely well in excess of five years.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Those are my comments and my questions at this time. Thank you,
everyone.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I see Director Davidson has his hand raised. If it's all
right with you, Director Tisdale, can I call on Director Davidson? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin, and thank you, Director Tisdale, for the patience.
Director Rosenthal, thank you for the question. I just wanted to follow on. And Ms. Polege, thank you for
addressing the question and consistency of what's being done within the agency.
I just also wanted to highlight that while unrelated to the recommended action at hand that our
compensation philosophy also outlined the target at midpoint and the intent to pay for performance, which
is also in alignment with where the agency is moving. And so I think all that to say much more work is to
be done by this Committee to ensure that we have a total look at compensation, that we have a wellstructured pay-for-performance model and good methodology for that. And then that, of course,
compounds with or adds to this move itself.
So just to highlight that also the factor of midpoint is one component of this, and just wanted to make sure
to highlight that point and also put in the call to action for this Committee to continue its work along that
path. So Director Rosenthal, thank you very, very much for that question. I think it's an important one. And
thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. I'll yield the floor back.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Board Chair Davidson. Director Tisdale, the floor is yours if you have any
comments you'd like to add.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And I particularly appreciate the comments by
Board Chair Davidson just now because they really anticipated the comment that I wanted to make for the
record, which is that regarding this proposed sixth amendment, the only change to the contract is to
provide this 1.8% increase to the base salary.
And it is appropriate to note that the Performance Committee and others in discussion have had further
comments regarding adjustments to the compensation philosophy, and for that matter, to the contract that
are not enumerated here and are not addressed. And we have had some significant discussion as to
those other items in executive session, so I will not detail any of that further other than to reference the
discussion.
And just want to note for the sake of the record that there are other matters that are being explored a nd
will be discussed in the future, and that this sixth amendment is achieving one goal only, and that is to

arrive at the midpoint, which I think for the reasons that have already been articulated at length and
beyond my ability to expand upon, I just wanted to make sure we understood that. Thank you very much,
Madam Chair. That concludes my remarks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale, and for the emphasis on the fact that this is just one item
and that there are other items pending in the near future that will come before this Committee. Director-- I
wanted to see if Director Guzman wanted another chance to comment.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have one question, getting to the midpoint. And I
know that this is-- this is math, math maths-- that we need to take into consideration that there is a floor
and there is a ceiling, the reality that we are paying the salary out of taxpayer funds. So as a fiduciary
responsibility, we can't give an exponential amount of increase to pay, although I do believe in good pay
for good work, right? Honest pay for honest work. And I think that's what we're trying to do here.
There are moving bits about pay for performance and what that looks like, what that will be in the future,
what that could be in the future versus uncapped COLA increases and all of these things that we've been
discussing. I want to make sure that we address the fact that this gives room for challenge and growth
and that there is opportunity here to continue increasing the revenue, to Director Rosenthal's earlier point.
It's really important.
This is a major agency. It's more money than I could ever plan to or hope to earn in a year. This contract
is hefty and well suited for this position because of the amount of work that it takes to do this job.
But I think in the context of meeting agency goals, standard operational procedures, and the strategic
plan and governmental relations, and all of the things that are part of doing the job of General Manager
and CEO of this agency, have we left ourself in a position of being able to continue to be competitive and
also recognizing the immense value of the work with the compensation that we're providing? And I'm not
sure who that's directed at, but it's kind of a question/comment for the group.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I appreciate your comments. I saw Director Rosenthal had his hand raised followed
by Chair Davidson. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And one of the things that I know we've discussed in the
past and I just want to bring it up again and see what the interface-- maybe describe a little bit more, and
maybe People Manager Polege can talk about a little bit more, which is the Gallagher Report. How does
that fit into the actions that we're taking today? And maybe how does that continue to guide our actions
into the future?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Polege, do you want to try that? Or Director Davidson, would you like to take a stab
at that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm happy to start us off. And then Ms. Polege, if you wouldn't mind filling in a gap. And
then I can come back for Director Guzman, your question.
The Gallagher ultimately made two recommendations, and we took the recommendation of the full market
range. There were two recommendations for base salary ranges that will-- that's informed this-- directly
informed this recommended action today, although we did age the recommended salary band by that
Employment Cost Index, which I believe was 4.5% at the time that we aged this band, which was
November 2023.

As for how it will inform us going forward, I do believe there are some other things for the Committee to
turn its attention to that were in there. However, I think it would be best practice for this Committee to do
more and do an additional compensation analysis and study.
This is a highly competitive position. This is a highly competitive market. It's a highly dynamic industry.
And therefore, I believe it is important for us to have a regular, recurring compensation analysis.
So I do believe there are other things we can look at, Director Rosenthal, with respect to the findings of
the Gallagher Report. More directly, however, the Gallagher Report's directly informed this recommended
action. But I do believe that the data is aging very quickly and it is most important for us to continue the
compensation analysis process and establish some standard operating procedures around that for this
Committee. With that, Ms. Polege, if I could just open the floor for any gaps that I may have missed there.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Thank you, Chair Davidson. So-- Board Chair Davidson. I would just add
with respect to the Gallagher Report-- so in the Report there was a recommended-- there was two
recommendations for a range. The Board has since adopted a range.
One of the next steps was for the Board to adopt a range. That has since happened. And then
subsequent to that-- and I'm just referring to the Report-- the next step was to then actually address,
where within the range should the General Manager and CEO sit? And so that actually was a next action.
And then additionally to that, there are other steps within the Gallagher Report that the Board has actually
already taken. I.e. create and implement a compensation philosophy, which is to establish a range.
And then also-- and this is important, because it leads to or connects into what Director Tisdale was
saying, without disclosing the conversations in Executive Committee-- there is additional work, which
would be, how does General Manager and CEO Johnson move through the range? And how will any
future General Manager and CEO, would it not be Ms. Johnson?
So those are the next steps that were comprised within that Gallagher Report. And so the Board is taking - and this Committee, in fact, is taking-- has taken and is continuing to take those steps. So the immediate
next action was to determine, where in the band would your GM and CEO reside? And hence, this
recommendation to go with midpoint.
And then subsequent to that, how would you move through in alignment with the compensation
philosophy? How would an incumbent move through that band, recognizing respect and financial fiscal
constraints and accountability and responsibility?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. Director Davidson, did you have anything to add?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It was in response to Director Guzman's question, so I can hold if there's any further
discussion on that last question from Dr. Rosenthal or anyone.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, please go ahead in response to Director Guzman's question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I appreciate it. Director Guzman, if I understood your question correctly,
it's, have we left the room? And this does need to grow.
And actually, I think Ms. Polege put it very eloquently about the next steps on Gallagher and where we go
from here, that there are a number of considerations for how the General Manager and CEO moves

through the band and what the right mechanisms will be for any performance-based pay, which would be
separate action.
To directly answer your question, yes, I believe we have left that room. I think that is reflective in the
decision to move to midpoint. And I think it is the beauty of the flexible compensation philosophy when we
looked at various types of compensation philosophies we could adopt. And again, would thank Ms.
Polege for highlighting those, educating this Committee on what our options would be.
And ultimately for our adoption of the flexible, I thank the Committee because it gave us that ability to say,
we go to midpoint considering, of course, financial constraints and accountability, as Ms. Polege
highlighted. But then also, we have additional tools that we can use to stay consistent with our
compensation philosophy and have the distance between midpoint and the upper end of the adopted
salary range as guideposts as to where we are operating within. So I believe there's plenty of room, and
that will conclude my remarks. And I thank you for the question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Director Guzman, does that answer your question?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, indeed. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great. Director Rosenthal has another comment, and then I would like to open it up for
comments from other Board members who are not on the Committee. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you for entertaining my questions. So this
concept of a compensation philosophy, we've heard it kind of mentioned here and there. Maybe-- so
maybe discuss a little bit the genesis of it. When did we sort of decide on it? Talk about it a little bit more.
And then more in depth of, what are some of the elements of it, some of the particulars? And then also,
how does that inform our decision today?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Polege, do you want to take a stab at that? I don't recall the exact dates that this
Board approved the-ERIK DAVIDSON: September.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. So the compensation philosophy was approved at the September 26,
2003, Board meeting. There were numerous-- I want to say three, at least three separate conversations
or meetings with Performance Committee on-- that got to the place of-- it went through Performance
Committee on September 11, and preceding that were a number of meetings to discuss a compensation
philosophy.
The compensation philosophy in its essence is your-- it's your guidepost. It's your principles that guide
how you will manage compensation. And in this case, it's specific for just the General Manager and CEO.
[CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me.
It is a-- we discussed-- the Committee had discussed a number of different options with respect to
compensation philosophies. And as Board Chair Davidson has highlighted, the decision was to go with
what we refer to-- was referred to as a flexible compensation philosophy. And flexible here is that it
captures the principles. And there's two, four, six-- I think there's nine principles within the compensation
philosophy that really build out, put the parameters or the guardrails around how compensation for a
General Manager and CEO at RTD would be determined.

And it is intended to be-- those principles are intended to be transparent. So they are publicly available.
The Board Committee-- the Board itself is aware of those, the current GM and CEO, but also future.
When you go out to recruit in future years, this compensation philosophy creates that transparency and
openness with potential candidates, and it just serves as the guide.
So to just give a quick example, we've already talked about the flexibility where, yes, the philosophy does
say to target-- to be market competitive, aligned at the 50th percentile. But it also has a principle that is
reflective of needing to ensure the ability and the fiscal responsibility and accountability of the agency.
And so that's, for example, where the flexibility would come in.
And then it addresses pay for performance, which is actually signaling how an individual, an incumbent
would actually make its way through the band. You're going to hire based on their skills, their experience,
when they're coming into the position, but the movement is going to be a pay for performance.
And again, that flexibility signals-- if you're going to be rewarded with compensation from a performance
perspective, it's going to be attached. It's going to be assigned to specific outcomes. It will be clear and
transparent. And only if performance is warranted on that side, pay for performance, that's when
compensation would happen.
So I'm trying to give a couple examples, but it's really your guardrail. And it just sets the foundation and
principles for how the agency will compensate and reward and motivate their General Manager and CEO.
PEGGY CATLIN: [INAUDIBLE]. Thank you very much, Ms. Polege. And I would suggest that as a
refresher we'd go back to the September meeting packet and take a look at that because that will be our
guidepost going forward in the work of this Committee, so I would suggest that. And-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair? Just for the record, it's page 40 of the September Board meeting
packet.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. Appreciate that. So I just think that it might be nice to have that
on hand as we move through our work on this Committee. Now I'd like to open this up to other Directors
who are not on the Committee, if you would please raise your hand if you have a question or comment.
Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I personally-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me. I
personally would be fine with paying mid or above midpoint for the market, but I personally don't believe
that what we're looking at here is the market.
The Gallagher study did show that our GM CEO is paid well above midpoint relative to other comparable
transit agencies. But what the Board adopted and what Chair Davidson noted is that we adopted the full
market range, and that full market range included nonrelated, nontransit sectors. And even at that -- even
with that range, our GM CEO was still at midpoint last November.
But then in addition to giving a COLA, which is part of her contract and she's rightfully entitled to, we also
adopted that aged-- that aging factor. But that aging factor was also considered in part because of
inflation. So that was, again, despite the fact that we also give a COLA.
And one of the things that the Office of the State Auditor recommended in 2010 is that we have a very
public discussion that justifies our methodology in determining that midpoint. And I'm not sure that we
really did that with the Gallagher study because what the Gallagher study did was it used the same transit

agencies that RTD had used for its internal survey of nonrepresented employees, and that, I think, was
more staff-led than Board-led.
And so I would just encourage-- and again, I want to state on the record, I would be fine with the paying
above midpoint for the market. I'm not sure that our methodology with all the variables over the years is
that market.
But what I would encourage the Performance Committee to consider strongly is also taking the advice of
the Office of the State Auditor and using its ability to-- its authority through the Board to hire an
independent, third-party consultant to help us through this process moving forward, which I think will-- I
think overall, that might have been helpful in the past.
But you know, again, as Director Guzman noted, these are also taxpayer dollars. And we should be able
to justify every step of that methodology and our process.
And it's not to-- this is not to knock the Performance Committee or anything like that or the dollar range in
front of us. But I am a little bit uncomfortable-- and I'm just one Director, but I am a little bit uncomfortable
with how we arrived at what we said was a market.
And I mean, to that end-- and this is publicly available information. If we do move forward with this
contract amendment, that would mean that since the date of hire our GM CEO will have received over
time a 27%, almost 28% pay increase. And again, some of that might have been because we weren't
paying competitively enough, and I'm happy with paying competitively.
But I just want us all to bear in mind that these are taxpayer dollars. This is a very important job,
obviously, that our General Manager has. And we need to be able to justify every step of our decision
making.
And so I would just encourage the Performance Committee to-- if they don't seek outside counsel on this,
at least take a hard look at the methodology that we're using because per this contract as I understand it,
and at least-- and also for our own compensation philosophy, we will be evaluating that market every
year. And we just want to make sure that those variables are justifiable and that we stay consistent.
Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for those comments, Director Ruscha. Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. Director Ruscha, thank you for your
comments. I wanted to just respond directly to some of those, given some of the conversations last year.
I just wanted to highlight that certainly one of the most important things that stands out to me, Office of
the State Auditor and otherwise from a best practice standpoint, is up until this point we have been in the
complete absence of acting on data. And I think at this point with the Gallagher Report that was produced
was produced for and brought to a Performance Committee and to the Board quite some time ago and is
our data on record.
I appreciate the comments about methodology, and thank you for highlighting the importance of that. I
think your call is well heard that to this Committee it is absolutely paramount that we well define what our
compensation analysis will look like on a go-forward basis, that we establish some consistency in that
process, and some consistency of services. And as you noted, likely an outside firm that would be
assisting and working with this Board and data that would then be adopted by this Board.

I think that is absolutely critical. I think it belongs as part of the Committee work plan. Not the topic we're
discussing now, but I think it's important to highlight that that is essential, and completely hear loud and
clear.
I also wanted to address that there was a discussion when the Gallagher Report was first brought to the
Performance Committee. I may be mistaken on the date. I believe it may have been November 2022, but
I would like to double check that.
And the discussion was around the different recommendations, one of which was the full market range.
That conversation was presented from Gallagher. It was also revisited by the Committee last year and our
discussion that we believe in the competitive environment that we're in that we're competing with more
than transit agencies.
That is a byproduct of opportunities that General Managers and CEOs have to move into other
opportunities in various sectors. It is also due to the fact that our industry is unique in that it is comprised
of some public entities as well as some private entities serving the industry.
So I wanted to just directly address those and just refresh some of the comments we had last year and
acknowledge your point that we need to be very engaged with methodology in addition to data and
output. And certainly, I think that's something the Committee should do on a go-forward basis, on a lookback. This is the data we have, and without taking an action like this we're acting in the absence of data.
So thank you for allowing me to comment, Director Ruscha, and Chair Catlin on that matter.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for those comments, Chair Davidson. I don't see any more hands raised. So
at this time, I would like to-- well, actually, I would want to make one comment myself, that I did receive a
text from Vice Chair Guissinger, and she said she is in support of this motion even though she cannot
vote since she's not here. But I just wanted to let you know that just from her perspective, she said she
was supportive of this motion. I'd like to call for the vote. And we have-- OK, Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am a yes. So for the five members who are present, it passes unanimously, and
we will take this recommendation forward to the full Board. Are there any-- there are no discussion items
on the agenda this evening, but are there any other matters to discuss?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Does CEO Johnson have anything to say about any of what we just discussed? I'd
like to hear from her if at all possible. Sorry.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That's thoughtful. Yes, Direct-- [LAUGHS] GM CEO Johnson, would you
like to comment on this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to do so. And Director
Guzman, thank you for posing the question relative to me presenting any comments.
I would just say that I've heard everything that members have said this evening, recognizing that we all
have a fiduciary responsibility. In relationship to the position in which I hold, I have been in public service
for several years, a couple of decades and then some. And I would just like to say relative to all the
comments, I understand them clearly.
And I'd also be remiss to state that when I came into this organization-- and I've said this to some of you
independently, but I'll say it for the record-- I came in here in good faith, recognizing that we were in the
midst of a global pandemic. I signed a contract in September of 2020 with the absence of a salary
structure, and I specific requested that a compensation analysis be done.
We are talking in excess of three years plus, and it's come to fruition. I appreciate you all's du e diligence
and us working collaboratively. There's still more work to be done.
And I speak from the vantage point of my colleagues that dedicate their lives to public service. I
understand there is an appearance that this is an exorbitant amount of money to some. But when you
look at where we are collectively and the work that's entailed, this isn't a 24/7-- I mean, a 9:00 to 5:00 job.
It's 24/7, 365 days a year. And factoring that in, I pride myself on being a servant leader because it fills
my tank for the betterment of others that weren't born on a level playing field.
So while I appreciate everybody's comments, I am a firm believer of equal pay for equal work. And
individuals that are members of my team know that I support that. We want to ensure that people have a
livable wage, a marketable wage, a competitive wage for the services that they provide for the betterment
of the communities that we serve. So with that, thank you for your action.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, GM CEO Johnson. Rest assured that this Committee will not let these
activities languish for three years in the future. And to that point, I do have other matters, and that's the
discussion of our work plan. And other Committees are ahead of us with their draft work plans.
And we will be working with GM CEO Johnson, with Jack Kroll with the Board Office, with Lynn
Guissinger, Vice Chair of this Committee, and with-- who am I-- and hopefully Charlene Polege and also
Melanie Parish to-- Mel-- ah. Tai-Shrae Parish. I saw that. Melanie Snyder-- as needed to develop a
robust work plan that addresses some of these issues that were brought forward tonight.
And although our next meeting date is scheduled for Monday, March 18, I believe that in light of the need
to get a good start on this work plan, we may need to schedule a meeting in February. So I would ask for- and all-- I would ask for Mr. Kroll to poll the members to see what availability we might have in February.
All right. Well-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Certainly.

DEBRA JOHNSON: I would like to add for the record and make a request of you and Mr. Kroll that it
would be very helpful to ensure that staff had availability when Board members are polled because I
believe as we look at performance is collective amongst all parties. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. And I tried to ensure that I included everybody as a participant
[LAUGHS] as having input into the process, but I neglected to mention the calendaring of such, so thank
you for that reminder.
OK. Well, seeing no other discussion, this meeting is adjourned at 7:37 PM. And I thank you all very
much for your good discussion and your hard work on this Committee.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good night.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Good evening.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right. I'm done.

