Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
9, 2010
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

February 10, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 at 5:35 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Christopher, Vice – Chair Bagley, Director Busck, Director Cohen,
Director Daly, Director James, Director Kemp, Director Martinez, Director
O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tayer, and Director Tobiassen.
Directors Brohl and McMullen.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness,
Carol Duecker, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien,
Robert Merriman, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Bill Porter, Scott Reed, Scott
Roberts, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Roger Sherman,
Bill Sirois, Julie Skeen, Jim Starling, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Phil Hoffman – Parsons, Edie Bryan – ColoRail, Nicholas Moller - JP
Morgan, Tom Rouskins, Elbra Wedgeworth – DUSPA, Jannie Seranton –
JP Morgan, Marshall Crawford – JP Morgan, Bob Wilson – GLAC, Brian
Pinkerton – CCD, Jenny Glick, Mary Buckley – DIA, Brandon W, Mac
Callison – Aurora, Mari Lipponen - SOM, David Rhodes – DIA, Jena
Montgomery – PBS&J, Celina – Celina Inc., Hunter Snydor – Kiewit, Jeff
Leib – Denver Post, and Kevin Flynn.

****
Call to Order:

Chair Christopher called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m. and indicated
a quorum was present.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
9, 2010
Page 2 of 4

I.

Recommended Action


Approval of May 2, 2010 Service Changes
Bill Porter, Manager Service Planning/Scheduling, updated the board on the
results of the public hearings. There were five public hearings held with 35 total
people in attendance. There is no change in the board report except for one
running time adjustment.
Chair Kemp requested this item to be placed under Recommended Action due to
the wording.
Director Tayer informed the board that there are conversations around potential
cost sharing arrangements amongst Louisville, Broomfield, Boulder County and
RTD.
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2, 2010 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual of cost of approximately
$173,100, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to
move this item to the full board at
the February 16, 2010 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Vote On
Motion:

Motion passed unanimously.

II. Updates


TOD Status Report
Director Christopher thanked Bill Sirois and everyone else who contributed to
the TOD Report. The report is excellent, thorough, and easy to read.
Bill Sirois, TOD Specialist walked through the PowerPoint presentation. The TOD
Status report is given every year, the first report was done in 1995. The
purpose of the report is to provide an update on status of urban planning and
real estate development in the vicinity of existing and planned stations.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
9, 2010
Page 3 of 4

The following is a preliminary schedule for discussion with Board:
Presentation of TOD Lessons Learned Report – April 2010
Structured discussion of TOD Policy challenges and opportunities – May 2010
Drafting of revised TOD policy language (if needed) – June/July 2010
Board adoption of revised TOD policy language (if needed) – August 2010
A copy of this presentation is included in the minutes.
Director Bagley expressed what a great document this is for those that need
information about what is happening with TOD today.
Bill Sirois introduced former RTD employee Mike Turner. Mike is rejoining RTD to
help on the planning coordination side.
John Tayer gave the board a heads up that he and Bill Christopher have been
talking to affordable housing interests and discussing the opportunity on how
RTD can infuse a little bit more affordable housing into opportunities the District
would explore.
Director Tayer asked if there is anything more RTD can do to push the TOD
envelope such as strategies that are more progressive then what is in the report.
Bill Sirois indicated that those strategies will be included in the “lessons learned”
report that will be presented to the board at a later date.
Phil Washington added that RTD is creating a local partnership including the
Regional HUD Office, Regional EPA, RTD and CDOT and adding the workforce
development piece. Phil will report back to the board the outcome of the
meeting that is scheduled to take place early next month.
III. Other Matters
Director Daly reported that in the House Committee on Local Affairs, passed house Bill
1143 – the TOD Bill that would give RTD permission to have housing on our property.
Director Bagley reported that he attend the session of the Local Government Committee
and was pleased to represent RTD. During the testimony Kent stressed how important
it is for RTD to be a partner with the local governments that RTD works with.
Director Bagley and Director Christopher worked with General Manager, Phil
Washington to be a financial sponsor for National Association of Industrial and National

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
9, 2010
Page 4 of 4

Parks. RTD is a 1/3 sponsor and Denver is a 2/3 sponsor.
Director Bagley also shared that he has been attending the South Metro Denver
Chamber of Commerce Economic Development Group Transportation Taskforce
meetings. The focus is currently on further funding the Sante Fe and C-470
Interchange. The group did express their support and willingness to work with RTD by
telling our story to other economic development groups.
Neither Directors Christopher nor Bagley will be at the next scheduled Planning &
Development Committee meeting. Chair Kemp will fill in for them.
IV. Next Meeting Date – March 2, 2010.
V. Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher adjourned the Planning & Development
Committee meeting at 6:07 p.m.

