Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
First Vice Chair – Bill Christopher, District J
Second Vice Chair – O’Neill P. Quinlan, District G
Secretary – Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Treasurer – Lee Kemp, District I
Noel Busck, District K
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill Elfenbein, District A
Daryl Kinton, District H

Bill McMullen, District E
Wally Pulliam, District L
Dave Ruchman, District M
John Tayer, District O
Barbara Yamrick, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, July 24, 2007 at 5:30PM

I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Donald E. Craft, Facilities Maintenance Supervisor – 39 Years of Service
SPECIAL RECOGNITION-DISTINGUISHED BUDGET PRESENTATION AWARD
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
THANK YOU.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Ruchman
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Pulliam
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Contracted Operational Services Committee - Chaired by Director Yamrick
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Kinton
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Kemp
Technology Committee - Chaired by Director Quinlan
Audit-Sub Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Quinlan
E-470 – Director Busck
ACED – Director Busck
DRCOG-Director Elfenbein
Northwest Parkway-Director Pulliam or Director Kemp
Pension Committee-Director Pulliam
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Christopher
Chairman’s Report-Chair Chris Martinez

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JUNE 19, 2007

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

A.

Request for Approval of the 2008-2013 Transit Development Program
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt Scenario B as the 2008-2013 Transit Development Program (TDP).
This scenario assumes that the Board of Directors authorizes the District to pursue a
fare increase effective January 1, 2008.

B.

2008 Fare Policy Public Input Process
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that RTD staff be
directed to solicit public input regarding staff recommended changes to the RTD fare
policy. Following consideration of public input, staff is further directed to present a
final recommendation to the RTD Board at the regularly scheduled Board meeting in
September.

C.

Adoption of 2008 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2008 Performance Measures for Goals 1 – 6.

D.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Second Year Option for Booz Allen Hamilton
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the second year option in the amount of the current
Booz Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) at an increased upset limit of $500,000 to extend the
contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services (15DK004). This contract
was originally awarded in 2005 to Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial year plus four one year options to renew based on

positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the contract was not to exceed
$250,000. The second year addition of $500,000 brings the contract amount up to an
amount that requires Board approval. The second year option is to begin on September
15, 2007 and remain in effect for one year until September 14, 2008.
E.

Consulting Services – FasTracks Desktop PC and Application Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract extension for option year 2 for non-personal Consulting Services –Systems
Support for the amount not to exceed $95,400 with an effective date of September
25, 2007. This vendor, Technology Integration Group (TIG), was selected through the
competitive bid process in 2005.

G.

Consulting Services – ERP Phase 1.5 Desktop PC, Printer, Handheld PDA and
Application Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a 3 year personal services contract (17DJ002) for Consulting Services –Systems
Support in the amount of $47.62 per hour and not to exceed a total value of $285,700
with an effective date of August 6, 2007. Funding has been programmed and included
in the 2007/2008 budget. This vendor, CounterTrade Products, was selected through
the competitive bid process that was a best value procurement.

H.

West Corridor Property Acquisition and Relocation Assistance Services Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award multiple contracts to the qualified proposers, Universal Field
Services, Inc., in the amount of $800,000.00, H. C. Peck & Associates, Inc. in the
amount of $800,000.00 and Briggs Field Services, Inc. in the amount of $400,000.00
for the provision of Property Acquisition, Relocation Assistance, Property Management
and Planning Services for the West Corridor Light Rail Project and and/or possible
additional transit projects.

I.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Michael Baker Jr., Inc. for the I-225
Corridor Environmental Evaluation/Preliminary Engineering (EE/PE) Contract
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Michael Baker Jr., Inc.
to perform an Environmental Evaluation study and Preliminary Engineering for the I-225
Corridor project. The contract award will be in the amount of $5,262,716. Funding for
this project is included in the FasTracks Budget and Program.

J.

Contract Award – Central Corridor 4-Car Platform Modification Project
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award RTD Contract 37DR008 to Krische
Construction in the amount of $2,812,963 for the Central Corridor 4-Car Platform
Modification Project. The total budget for this project includes construction of:
highblocks with canopies, platform extensions with lighting and tactile warning
surfaces, trackway paving, and fencing, signal and miscellaneous other minor station
modifications. The construction, contingency, and construction management funding
for the project is in the approved FY2007 FasTracks Budget.

K.

X.

Resolution No. ____, Series Of 2007: Regarding Support for Colorado’s Urban
Partnership Agreement Proposal for the US 36 Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors does hereby declare support for “Colorado’s Urban Partnership Agreement”
proposal and for the request for funding through the US Department of Transportation’s
Urban Partnership Agreement program, in order to advance the development of
“managed lanes” and Bus Rapid Transit as effective traffic congestion mitigation
measures for the region.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

L.

Commuter Rail Vehicle Technologies for the East and Gold Line Corridors
It is recommended that the RTD Board adopt one of the two alternatives for commuter
rail vehicle technology on the East and Gold Line Corridors:
Alternative 1: Accept EMU vehicle technology recommendations for East and Gold Line
Corridors based on EIS and public process, cost-effectiveness, affordability and
schedule.
Alternative 2: Re-evaluate DMU/EMU technologies in EISs for East and Gold Line
Corridors which will delay the process by 6 to 8 months and cost an additional $2M for
EIS studies.

M.

Recommendation to Extend the CH2M Hill Contract on the Gold Line to Complete
the FEIS/ROD and Advanced Basic Engineering
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to extend the contract with the current Gold
Line corridor consultant, CH2M Hill, in an amount not to exceed $8,940,012 to
complete the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and advanced basic engineering on
the current Preferred Alternative (EMU on the railroad alignment). Funds for this effort
are included in the Gold Line 2007 Budget for the FasTracks Program. This alternative
is dependent on the Board accepting EMU as the preferred technology recommendation.
If not, then Alternative #2 is recommended.

N.

West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals for agreed upon items
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to maintain the drainage improvements east of
Decatur to the South Platte River as currently designed by the City/County of Denver
as shown in the November 2006 65% final design submittal. The Planning and
Development Committee further recommends that the RTD Board of Directors defer
action until the August Board meeting on the Value Engineering (VE) proposals for
Single Track Section from Denver Federal Center to Jefferson County and single track
tunnel at I-70.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XII.

NEW BUSINESS

XIII.

ADJOURN

