Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 24, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
July 24, 2007 at 5:30 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
12 members were present at roll call. Director Tayer arrived after roll call. Directors
Christopher and Elfenbein were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There was one retiree.

He was not present to receive the award.

SPECIAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT FROM DIRECTOR BROHL
Chair Martinez granted Director Brohl a special moment to thank a Laidlaw bus driver, Toni
Davidson, for her quality customer service and exemplary performance when driving the route
30 bus on July 6, 2007 at 10:02 a.m. at the Federal and Evans stop. Ms. Davidson took a
stand in getting a seat for an extremely pregnant woman and small child who happened to be
the daughter of Director Brohl. Director Brohl pointed out that this is the type of customer
focused service that builds ridership and public support for mass transit.
Note: The name has been corrected following further research with Laidlaw.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION-DISTINGUISHED BUDGET PRESENTATION AWARD
Chair Martinez acknowledged RTD as the recipient of the Distinguished Budget Presentation
Award and congratulated Robert Merriman, Budget and Finance Manager, and Todd Nikkel,
Senior Budget Analyst, for being primarily responsible in the achievement of this award.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Mayor John Hickenlooper, Denver, began by looking at the part of history that has made the
city great beginning with how the railroad defined us in connecting us throughout the region.
Mayor Hickenlooper expressed that the 21st century will be defined by FasTracks-the more
successful FasTracks, the more successful the city. Throughout this process the Mayors have
worked together to build the best system possible with a goal for a sustainable cost effective
system. To this end, the city supports EMU and strongly urges the Board to accept the RTD
staff recommendation. This recommendation is also compatible with the direction established
by DIA. He urged the Board to respect the EIS process and select EMU as the right choice for
Denver.
Mayor Ken Fellman, Arvada, provided his support for EMU technology for the Gold line
corridor. He stated that EMU as the preferred alternative has overwhelming support in the
Arvada community and the recommendation from the EIS process for EMU provides the most

cost effective and timely option. He also expressed that the local communities of Arvada,
Wheatridge, and surrounding communites had forged an excellent partnership with RTD and he
would be concerned with the backlash that would be created if EMU was voted down. He
urged the Board’s selection for EMU.
Mayor Jerry Ditullio, Wheat Ridge, expressed his support for EMU and shared his concern that
the selection of a different alternative would introduce costly delays and time into the process.
He encouraged the Board to look at and vote for EMU.
Russell Greear, Denver, expressed thanks to the RTD Board for taking a look at his request to
address the issue of profanity on buses. He also shared that he is a candidate for the 4th
District State House of Representatives.
Gwen Christianson representing the Upper Larimer Neighborhood Association, expressed the
neighborhood concern on the negative impacts coming from diesel. She cited different
environmental impacts on pollution and the ozone level. She expressed a concern also that if
diesel is selected, there is no going back on diesel. Upper Larimer Neighborhood Association
strongly supports EMU for all corridors.
Augustine Villalabes, Swansea area, expressed that he did not support diesel because it
created pollution.
LW Morrow stated to the Board to open their wallets because he is here. He also expressed
his belief that FasTracks can be done in 3 years and it is unconscionable to string this out for 9
years. He also stated that he had observed there was no African American representation in
the room or on the Board, a concern that he has been expressing for some time. He also
talked about an open house on 7/27 in LA on fuel cell technology.
Audrey Debarros, representing 36 Commuting Solutions and the US 36 Mayor’s Coalition,
provided their support to the resolution regarding support for Colorado’s Urban Partnership
Agreement Proposal for US 36 Corridor.
Bob Yeager with Zeppelin Development spoke to the need for EMU in the Rivernorth area with
EMU maintenance facilities to improve the image for Rivernorth and the Brighton Community.
Amy Broken Leg, representing the Highlands United Neighbors Inc (HUNI), read a statement
providing unanimous support for EMU on all 4 trains heading north. She provided a
perspective that EMU is more in line with environmental concerns and can be provided through
various options such as wind power. She encouraged the Board to become more visionary in
looking at technologies and to implement a 100% EMU powered FasTracks system.
Jane Schnabel who represented several groups (i.e. Historical Olde Town Arvada, Stake Walter
Historical District) shared that the Gold line would be within 100 yards of her front yard in the
Grandview area. She is looking for quieter and cleaner air and encouraged the Board support
for EMU.
Larry Burgess with the Elylia Swanson/Globeville Business District, stated that he owned
several buildings along Brighton Boulevard and that the Business District strongly support EMU
based on the need for cleaner air quality and noise control.
Keith Pryor from the Curtis Park Board referenced a letter sent by the Curtis Park Association
to the Board providing unanimous support for EMU. He expressed that EMU is critical to the
health and vitality of Denver. Service is key and EMU provides more opportunity for
development and stops. This could drive up ridership and offers less stigma attached to EMU
than DMU. He encouraged the Board to respect the EIS process.

Keith Howard, Sunnyside Neighborhood Association, provided support for the EMU technology
and encouraged the Board to pursue a sustainable system by 2025.
Mike Yaukovich from Arvada expressed his excitement about the Gold line coming to town and
that EMU is overwhelmingly the preferred choice for his neighborhood.
Judy Montero, Denver Councilwoman from District 9, provided strong support from her
constituents for EMU on the East and Gold line corridors. She expressed that EMU is much
quieter than DMU and is less expensive over the long term. She stated that we must follow
the process and that she had encouraged her constituents to become actively and vigorously
engaged in the process. Councilwoman Montero shared a study from the Denver Department
of Environmental Health that shows the types and levels of pollutants release by diesel into the
air and ozone level.
Constantin Nikonov from the Sunnyside Neighborhood cautioned the Board on making
concessions to build it right.
Kevin Scott from the Upper Larimer Neighborhood, expressed concern over having a LRT
maintenance facility in their back yard. Notwithstanding, the neighborhood supports EMU and
see this as an investment in the future.
Lorraine Anderson, Councilwoman from the City of Arvada, shared that she represented the
people who are living within yards of the commuter rail. She too encouraged a respect for the
process and gave her support to the EMU technology.
Rachael Zenzinger, Arvada, spoke of how she was in favor of LRT when it was introduced in
2004 and how she and her neighborhood voted in favor of LRT. They are opposed to DMU for
the Gold corridor and we need to reduce our reliance on oil. DMU is inconsistent to the
neighborhood expectations.
Marianne LeClair representing ULNA, provided support for EMU on the Gold and East line. She
shared how her home backs up to the East Corridor and expressed outrage that RTD would be
considering 19th century technology for DMU. The 40 & 40th station is one of the largest and
TOD will be affected by the maintenance facility should it go DMU. She strongly supports the
use of EMU technology.
Penfield Tate provided his support to adopt EMU technology and provided 5 reasons to respect
the process: (1) The process included public involvement and the East line has spoken for
EMU. (2) DMU inconsistency with the vision for DIA (3) Perceived environmental justice (4)
Cost is irrelevant if you build using technology that is opposed by the community (5) We must
act in an environmentally friendly manner.
Bill Hudson, VP for Regis University, expressed delight that approximately 16,000 students
who also live and work in the area would have access to rail. He provided his support and
excitement for the EIS process for the Gold line using EMU technology.
Norman Lane who lives in the Clayton Neighborhood, expressed his support for EMU. DMU is
not suitable for 100-120 trips a day passing the front porch of houses. He does not want
DMU or diesel maintenance introduced in what he referred to as the bottom of the bowl.
Mark Ebeilawt who is a professor at the Colorado School of Mines, addressed a concern that
due to the increased demand for bio diesel, cost will soar and the availability of bio diesel will
simply not be there when needed.
Shelly Cook shared her perspective that the Gold line will be vulnerable to PPP and funding.
She also indicated she was one of the official names on the petition for FasTracks.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Planning & Development Committee
Director Ruchman reported on the Planning and Development Committee meeting held
7/16/07. Several items for voting were passed from this committee to the Board. If further
information is needed on the Planning and Development Committee, please refer to the
Committee minutes.
Legislative Committee
There was no Legislative meeting or report.
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Director Chacon reported on the FasTracks meeting from 7/10/07 and 7/23/07. If further
information is needed on the FasTracks Monitoring Committee, please refer to the Committee
minutes.
DBE Committee (Ad Hoc)
There was no DBE meeting this month.
Contracted Operational Services Committee
Director Yamrick reported on the Contracted Operational Services Committee meeting held
7/12/07. If further information is needed on the Contracted Operational Services Committee,
please refer to the Committee minutes.
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
Director McMullen reported on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
meeting held 7/12/07. If further information is needed on the Operations/Customer
Services/Marketing Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Financial Administration Committee
Director Kemp reported in the Financial Administration Committee meeting held 7/9/07. If
information is needed on the Financial Administration Committee, please refer to the
Committee minutes.
Ad Hoc Reports:
Audit Committee
The Audit Sub-Committee did not meet in July.
Technology Committee
Director Quinlan reported the committee will meet in October for the status on the progress
of webconferencing and acoustics in the 3rd floor conference room and the audio visual for
the RTD room.
CDOT Committee
No report was provided.
E-470 Committee
No report was provided.
DRCOG Committee
No report was provided.
ACED Committee
No report was provided.

Northwest Parkway
No report was provided.
Pension Committee
Director Pulliam indicated in a few months the Committee will be providing information to
the Board. He also stated he had received a letter from a retiree requesting to change the
fund.
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority
No report was provided on the RMRA.
DBEAC
Director Yamrick indicated the DBEAC Committee had met and that Ken Hardin is doing a
wonderful job with that committee and getting the DBE community involved.
Chair Report
Chair Martinez stated the Board continued to participate in meetings around the issues of
DMU/EMU/PPP. He indicated that he and Cal Marsella had participated in an interview with
the Suave Magazine about FasTracks. Chair Martinez also spoke at the COMTO meeting June
28, 2007.
VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF June 19, 2007
MOTION:
Director Busck moved for the adoption of the June 19, 2007
regular board meeting minutes.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Chacon, Daly, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
meeting. Directors Christopher and Elfenbein were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Urban Partnership Agreement meeting with CDOT on July 16, 2007
Cal Marsella participated in the Urban Partnership Agreement meeting with the Mayor
Coalition in the pursuit of urban planning. Mayors remain very interested and committed to
the direction of FasTracks.
2. ECO Pass Program Update-Fareboxes and Facilitator
Director John Tayer and the newly formed Unlimited Pass Access Group had their kickoff
meeting on Monday July 23rd. Cal Marsella provided comments to this group of local
representatives.
3. Interviews with LA Times and Public Works Financing Magazine
Cal Marsella participated in two interviews on FasTracks and shared with them how RTD is
managing to be successful building 119 miles of rail while the LA subway has exceeded
6.7B on a short leg ….
4. Filmed “Spotlight on Lakewood” with Mayor Burkholder on July 23, 2007
Cal filmed this onsite at the Lakewood Federal Center.
5. Meeting with Mayor Pirnak and City Manager Gordon Pedrow of Longmont
Cal Marsella and Director Quinlan met with the Mayor of Greenwood Village and discussed

the status of the T-Rex completion and the progress of the Park Meadows mall.
6. FasTracks Monitoring Committee on July 23, DUS/EMU/DMU
Cal Marsella and his staff addressed questions from the Board members on EMU/DMU
and provided an updated status of DUS. The meeting was very instrumental in
providing information to the Board necessary for the Board action tonight on selection
of vehicle technology for the Gold and West lines.
7. Meeting with Hawaiian DOT staff on ERP Lessons learned on July 24, 2007
The Mayor of the City of Honolulu visited to learn more about our ERP System. Cal
Marsella continues to build support with the Mayor in an exchange of ideas and
knowledge.
8. Attended Chamber State of the City Luncheon on July 24, 2007
Cal Marsella attended the Chamber Luncheon on 7/24/07. RTD continues to have
support from all the Mayors on the FasTracks project.
9. Presentation to ADCOG on July 25, 2007
Cal Marsella will be making a presentation on FasTracks to the ADCOG on Wednesday,
July 25, 2007.
10. Other Matters
Director Daly inquired on what was the success on the Ride to Bike week. Cal Marsella
indicated that it got great support and high visibility though the official count of
participants was not in yet. Director Daly indicated that he worked this event on the
Wednesday along with the staff and had a great time.
VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Daly, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Quinlan, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer,
and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Christopher and
Elfenbein were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Request for Approval of the 2008-2013 Transit Development Program
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt Scenario B as the 2008-2013 Transit Development Program (TDP).
This scenario assumes that the Board of Directors authorizes the District to pursue a
fare increase effective January 1, 2008.

B.

2008 Fare Policy Public Input Process
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that RTD staff be
directed to solicit public input regarding staff recommended changes to the RTD fare
policy. Following consideration of public input, staff is further directed to present a
final recommendation to the RTD Board at the regularly scheduled Board meeting in
September.

C.

Adoption of 2008 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2008 Performance Measures for Goals 1 – 6.

D.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Second Year Option for Booz Allen Hamilton
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the second year option in the amount of the current
Booz Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) at an increased upset limit of $500,000 to extend the
contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services (15DK004). This contract
was originally awarded in 2005 to Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial year plus four one year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the contract was not to exceed
$250,000. The second year addition of $500,000 brings the contract amount up to an
amount that requires Board approval. The second year option is to begin on September
15, 2007 and remain in effect for one year until September 14, 2008.

E.

Consulting Services – FasTracks Desktop PC and Application Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract extension for option year 2 for non-personal Consulting Services –Systems
Support for the amount not to exceed $95,400 with an effective date of September
25, 2007. This vendor, Technology Integration Group (TIG), was selected through the
competitive bid process in 2005.

F.

Consulting Services – ERP Phase 1.5 Desktop PC, Printer, Handheld PDA and
Application Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a 3 year personal services contract (17DJ002) for Consulting Services –Systems
Support in the amount of $47.62 per hour and not to exceed a total value of $285,700
with an effective date of August 6, 2007. Funding has been programmed and included
in the 2007/2008 budget. This vendor, CounterTrade Products, was selected through
the competitive bid process that was a best value procurement.

G.

West Corridor Property Acquisition and Relocation Assistance Services Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award multiple contracts to the qualified proposers, Universal Field
Services, Inc., in the amount of $800,000.00, H. C. Peck & Associates, Inc. in the
amount of $800,000.00 and Briggs Field Services, Inc. in the amount of $400,000.00
for the provision of Property Acquisition, Relocation Assistance, Property Management
and Planning Services for the West Corridor Light Rail Project and and/or possible
additional transit projects.

H.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Michael Baker Jr., Inc. for the I-225
Corridor Environmental Evaluation/Preliminary Engineering (EE/PE) Contract
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Michael Baker Jr., Inc.
to perform an Environmental Evaluation study and Preliminary Engineering for the I-225
Corridor project. The contract award will be in the amount of $5,262,716. Funding for
this project is included in the FasTracks Budget and Program.

I.

Contract Award – Central Corridor 4-Car Platform Modification Project
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award RTD Contract 37DR008 to Krische

Construction in the amount of $2,812,963 for the Central Corridor 4-Car Platform
Modification Project. The total budget for this project includes construction of:
highblocks with canopies, platform extensions with lighting and tactile warning
surfaces, trackway paving, and fencing, signal and miscellaneous other minor station
modifications. The construction, contingency, and construction management funding
for the project is in the approved FY2007 FasTracks Budget.

J.

IX.

Resolution No. ____, Series Of 2007: Regarding Support for Colorado’s Urban
Partnership Agreement Proposal for the US 36 Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors does hereby declare support for “Colorado’s Urban Partnership Agreement”
proposal and for the request for funding through the US Department of Transportation’s
Urban Partnership Agreement program, in order to advance the development of
“managed lanes” and Bus Rapid Transit as effective traffic congestion mitigation
measures for the region.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Chair Martinez provided opportunity for several Board members to comment prior to the
voting on the Commuter Rail Vehicle Technology for the East and Gold Line Corridors.
Director Kemp thanked the public for their involvement and for representing the interest of
their community. The EIS process followed by staff and in the cost analysis on DMU/EMU
is very important and contributed greatly to the decision being made tonight. However, he
requested the public to please allow the EIS process to work as we continue to evaluate
the other corridors and what may be the best technology in each of these corridors based
around following an appropriate process as well. He asked the public to please keep an
open mind as we proceed in our next set of evaluations.
Director McMullen thanked the public and reflected on how much of a positive resolution
that light rail brought to his neighborhood and that the process does work.
Director Busck thanked the public for how they had approached the issue in a nonthreatening manner. He acknowledged three of his former Mayor colleagues and provided
accolades to Cal and his staff for their innovation, hard work and dedication.
Director Ruchman stated how grateful he was to the public for their creativeness,
thoughtfulness and elegance in presenting their positions. He encouraged them to stay
involved as we focus on another big issue of what is the proper configuration for the PPP.
Chair Martinez thanked his Board colleagues for the time and energy they had put into this
issue and in applying due diligence to the process.
Director Quinlan stated that we must continue to ask the tough questions to get to the
right answers and that the public opinion is an important element of this process.

K.

Commuter Rail Vehicle Technologies for the East and Gold Line Corridors
It is recommended that the RTD Board adopt one of the two alternatives for commuter
rail vehicle technology on the East and Gold Line Corridors:
Alternative 1: Accept EMU vehicle technology recommendations for East and Gold Line
Corridors based on EIS and public process, cost-effectiveness, affordability and
schedule.
Alternative 2: Re-evaluate DMU/EMU technologies in EISs for East and Gold Line

Corridors which will delay the process by 6 to 8 months and cost an additional $2M for
EIS studies.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion for approval of
alternative one which is to accept the EMU vehicle
technology recommendations for East and Gold Line
Corridors based on EIS and public process, costeffectiveness, affordability and schedule.

Director Yamrick seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Daly, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer
and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Christopher and
Elfenbein were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

L.

Recommendation to Extend the CH2M Hill Contract on the Gold Line to Complete
the FEIS/ROD and Advanced Basic Engineering
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to extend the contract with the current Gold
Line corridor consultant, CH2M Hill, in an amount not to exceed $8,940,012 to
complete the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and advanced basic engineering on
the current Preferred Alternative (EMU on the railroad alignment). Funds for this effort
are included in the Gold Line 2007 Budget for the FasTracks Program. This alternative
is dependent on the Board accepting EMU as the preferred technology recommendation.
If not, then Alternative #2 is recommended.
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to approve the
recommendation to extend CH2M Hill contract on the
Gold Line to complete the FEIS/ROD and Advanced Basic
Engineering.

Director McMullen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Daly, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer
and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Christopher and
Elfenbein were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

M.

West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals for agreed upon items
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to maintain the drainage improvements east of
Decatur to the South Platte River as currently designed by the City/County of Denver
as shown in the November 2006 65% final design submittal. The Planning and
Development Committee further recommends that the RTD Board of Directors defer
action until the August Board meeting on the Value Engineering (VE) proposals for
Single Track Section from Denver Federal Center to Jefferson County and single track
tunnel at I-70.

MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion of the West Corridor Value
Engineering Proposals for the agreed upon items.

Director Chacon seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Daly, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer
and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Christopher and
Elfenbein were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

ADJOURN
Seeing there was no unfinished or new business, the meeting adjourned at 7:25 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, July 24, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Neill Quinlan, Second Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Shirley Bennett
Ron Dodsworth
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Bob Lewis
Tony McCaulay
Jerry Nery
Chris Quinn
Scott Reed
Daria Serna
Joe Smith
Stan Szabelak
Mike Turner
Susan Wood

District B
District G
District D
District I
District K
District C
District N
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Carol Duecker
Georgann Fisher
Cheryl Holmes
Marla Lien
Robert Merriman
Todd Nikkel
Liz Rao
Scott Roberts
Cal Shankster
Errol Stevens
Liz Telford
Ashland Vaughn
Susan Altes

OTHERS PRESENT:
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Kevin Flynn (The Rocky Mountain News)
Holman Carter (ATU 1001)
L.W. Morrow
Ben Doerfler (Spectrum A/V)
Russell Greear (IAMI)
Gwen Christiansen (Upper Larimer Neighborhood Association)
Jeanne Shreve (Adams County)
Phunglan Nguyen (FRESC)
Jerry DiTullio (Wheat Ridge)
Ed Colby (WGI)
Eva Spitz
John Thornton
Tex Elam

Susan Cohen
Phil Eberl
Marcia Fraley
Nadine Lee
Caitlin Magee
Karen Morales
Paula Perdue
Trent Ratcliff
Teresa Sabrusula
Bill Sirois
Henry Stopplecamp
Pauletta Tonilas
Phil Washington

Julie Hock-Noble
Terry Ruiter (DEA)
Eric Biga (Veolia)
Bruce Behncke (Veolia)
Augustine Villalobos
Don Ulrich (CH2M Hill)
Bob Wilson
Audrey DeBarros (36 Commuting Solutions)
Bob Yeager (Zeppelin Development)
Steve Roberts (Systra Consulting)
Angie Malpiede (FasTracks CAC)
Tom Foreman
Amy Broken Leg (Highland United Neighbors Inc)
Olivia Broken Leg
Abigail Broken Leg
The Honorable Ken Fellman (Mayor, City of Arvada)
Joelle Martinez (REM)
Romona Martinez (REM and Associates)
Dwight Scheck (Baker)
Pete Hankovszky (Baker)
Jane Schnabel (Historic Old Town Arvada)
Joe Racosky (URS)
Sandra Dowling (URS)
Bob Kochevar (City and County of Denver Public Works)
Bill Hipp (M.V. Transportation)
Larry Burgess (Elyria Swansea/Globeville Business Association)
Keith Pryor
Keith Howard (Sunnyside United Neighbors)
Mike Yankovich
Jane Boaward (David Evans and Associates)
Rory Seeber (Life on Capitol Hill)
John Malito (Arvada City Council)
Kim Kucera
J. Arrowood (STV)
Jon Esty
Kevin Scott (Upper Larimer Neighborhood Association)
Constantin Nickonov (Sunnyside United Neighbors)
Jake Jakubouski
Mac Callison (City of Aurora)
Lorraine Anderson (Arvada City Council)
Rachel Zenzinger
Mike Anders
Judy Montero (Denver City Council)
Rick Patten
Tim Boers (Highland United Neighbors Inc.)
Andy Mountain (GBSM)
Michael Rovito (Mile High News)
Marianne Le Clair (Upper Larimer Neighborhood Association)
Sharon Hendricks (Express Personnel)
Diane Barrett (City and County of Denver)
The Honorable John Hickenlooper (Mayor, City of Denver)
Elisa Cohen (North Denver Tribune)
Shelley Cook
Penfield Tate
Kara Swanson
Scot Albright

Bill Husson (Regis University)
Norman Lane (Clayton Neighborhood)
Ken Thomas (Upper Larimer Neighborhood Association)
Mark Ebeierhart
Brandan Neill
Schuyler Smith
Libby Tart-Schoenfelder (Highland United Neighbors Inc.)

