1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct
Wednesday, June 17, 2020
REMOTE MEETING
8:00 AM
Zoom Meeting: Link
Zoom Meeting by Phone: # 669-900-9128
Meeting ID: 964 8169 1009
Password: 022090

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
B. Safety Moment
C. Review of All Changes Made Based Upon Committee Input
D. Discuss Ad Hoc Committee Final Report – Format and Content
E. Next Meeting Date - Wednesday, July 1, 2020 (if necessary)
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Ad Hoc Committee on Code of Conduct

Date:

From:

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Board Chair & Director,
District C

GM

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: June 17, 2020
Revised Code of Conduct

ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD Code of Coduct (6-15-2020) 4845-9148-5888 v.1

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Board Chair & Director, District C
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 2

1.C.1.a

1. Purpose:
RTD is committed desires to offeringmeet our constituents’ present and future public transportation
needs by offering safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and cost-effective transportationservice
throughout the District to all constituents. R T D s t r i v e s t o e n s u r e t h a t e v e r y o n e i s
treated fairly and has equal access to transportati on. In order to
p r o v i d e Ffor the safety, convenience, and comfort of all persons, RTD has established this Code of
Conduct (Code) setting forth rules prohibiting certain conduct that may in RTD’s sole determination
adversely affect use, operation, or occupancy of RTD vehicles (including RTD buses, access-a-Ride
vehicles, call-n-Ride vehicles, light rail vehicles, and commuter rail vehicles), facilities (including bus
and rail stations, parking facilities, bus stops, bus shelters, plazas and fountains, and administrative,
operational, and maintenance facilities), or property. Prior to enforcement, RTD will make every
attempt to first educate a person on conduct prohibited by thethis Code. However, Aany
person who engages in prohibited conduct may be subject to enforcement ranging from a verbal or
written warning, immediate suspension, or a criminal citation (see Section 5: “Enforcement”). Conduct
Pprohibited conduct by this Code is subject to reasonable modification under the Americans with
Disabilities Act (see Section 4: “The ADA and Reasonable Modification”).
2. Authority:
This Code of Conduct was initially approved on December 20, 2016 by RTD’s Board of Directors and
thereafter amended on April 21JuneJuly XX, 2020.
3. Prohibited Conduct:
A person (including any combination of persons of any nature whatsoever, including but not limited to
companies, clubs, associations, corporations, partnerships, and public entities) is prohibited from
committing, attempting to commit, or assisting any other person or combination of persons to commit,
the following acts on any RTD vehicle, at any RTD facility, or on RTD property unless otherwise specified
in this Section:

Fares / Locations
1. Using any RTD services without prior payment of the proper fare.
2.1.

Being within any RTD fare paid zone without prior payment of the proper fare.

3.2.
Riding an RTD vehicle without proper fare or complying with RTD fare payment
management systems (including but not limited to failure to obtain and keep evidence
of payment such as transfers and tickets, validate a mobile ticket, and failure to tap
smart card media in accordance with RTD procedures).
RTD Code of Conduct – December 20, 2016, Revised April 21July
XX, 2020
Page 1

Packet Pg. 3

Attachment: RTD Code of Coduct (6-15-2020) 4845-9148-5888 v.1 (4237 : Revised Code of Conduct)

RTD Code of Conduct
for Persons on RTD Vehicles, Facilities or Property
December 20, 2016
Revised April 21July XX, 2020

1.C.1.a

4.3.
Failing to possess or to purchase upon request fare of transportation when at an
RTD transportation facility or station or failure to validate a mobile ticket prior to boarding
an RTD vehicle.
5.4.
Failing to obey any request from RTD to stand behind warning strips (including
yellow tactile strips) or within other safe locations on RTD vehicles or property.

7.6.
Unauthorized presence on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property after hours of
operation or after the vehicle has reached its final destination.
8.7.

Unauthorized presence on any RTD property that is not open to the public.

9.8.
Crossing RTD rail tracks at any location other than at a traffic or pedestrian
controlled intersection or at a designated pedestrian crossing.
10.9.
Violating the terms of, or failing to have possession of, an RTD Facilities Vendor
License or Use Permit when required. Commercial activity and certain other activities that,
for example, involve use of equipment or may attract large crowds require such a license
or permit.

Smoking / Eating / Drinking / Littering
11.10.
Smoking or vaping any substance including but not limited to tobacco (as defined
in the Colorado Clean Indoor Air Act), or use of chewing tobacco, on any RTD vehicle or
within any prohibited area. A “prohibited area” for purposes of this rule includes:
i. Any RTD facility or property where smoking is prohibited by state or local law.
ii. Any indoor RTD facility.
iii. Any outdoor or enclosed RTD facility or property where “no smoking” signs are
posted.
iv. The area within a radius of 15 feet of the main entry or doorway to an indoor
RTD facility.
12.11.
Consuming any alcoholic beverage or marijuana, or possessing an open container
of any alcoholic beverage or marijuana, on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property.
13.12.

Eating on any RTD vehicle unless and solely to the extent medically necessary.

14.13.
Drinking on any beverage without a lid on any RTD vehicle (drinking permitted from
containers with lids).
15.14.
Distributing or posting handbills in RTD vehicles or on RTD property or vehicles
parked on RTD property.
16.15.

Littering (including spilled food or liquids).

Disturbances
17.16.
Disruptive behavior disturbing the reasonable comfort of other passengers or RTD
personnel, including but not limited to disruptively loud talking or mobile phone use (use
of mobile phone speakers is prohibited).
RTD Code of Conduct – December 20, 2016, Revised April 21July
XX, 2020
Page 2

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: RTD Code of Coduct (6-15-2020) 4845-9148-5888 v.1 (4237 : Revised Code of Conduct)

6.5.
Failing to leave an RTD vehicle once fare has expired or upon reaching the
destination fare zone for which fare was purchased.

1.C.1.a

18.17.
Operating any device used to listen to music or other sound (other than a mobile
phone when being used for communications) without earphones, or if with earphones
at such a loudness level that the sound still causes a disturbance.

20.19.
Soliciting or otherwise engaging in unwanted conversation with any other person
while such person is a captive audience (i.e., standing in line for a vehicle or while riding
in a vehicle).
21.20.
Engaging in activities not authorized by RTD’s Facilities
(https://www.rtd-denver.com/reports-and-policies/facilities-use-policy).

Use

Policy

Occupancy
22.21.
Taking any animal into an RTD indoor facility, onto a vehicle or within a fare paid
zone unless: (1) the animal is intended and trained to assist a person with a disability, (2)
the animal is proven to RTD’s satisfaction to be in training to assist a person with a
disability, or (3) the animal is in an appropriate animal carrier (including locked, standard
commercial containers in the underfloor luggage bays of regional bus coaches). All dogs
must have proof of current vaccinations required by the local jurisdictions in which the
animals are traveling.
23.22.
Obstructing passengers with disabilities from accessing features necessary to
enable disabled passengers with disabilities to use transit services such as ramps, lifts,
and high blocks.
24.23.
Possessing or transporting articles, baggage, or packages (except mobility aids)
that restrict the safe movement of passengers on or around transit vehicles or otherwise
disrupting the use of transit.
25.24.
Possessing or transporting any flammable liquid, combustible material, or other
dangerous or hazardous item or substance such as gasoline, kerosene, or propane,
including in a canister or machinery. Also prohibited on RTD vehicles are: car batteries,
dollies, full-size grocery carts, and large furniture items.
26.25.
Carrying any weapon, dangerous instrument (including but not limited to
switchblade knife, gravity knife, box cutter, straight razor, razor blade not wrapped or
enclosed in a protective covering, or sword), or any other item intended for use as a
weapon, except to the extent and in the manner authorized by law. Legal firearms may
be carried if they are unloaded and carried in an enclosed container that completely
conceals the item from view and identification as a weapon. This paragraph does not
apply to law enforcement personnel or to persons to whom a concealed-carry license for
such weapon has been duly issued and is in force.
27.26.
Writing, marking, scribbling, defacing, or causing destruction on or to any RTD
vehicle or property in any manner.
28.27.
Intentionally Ooccupying more than one seat per person of an RTD vehicle or
facility (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
29.28.
Lying or sitting on the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance
of an RTD vehicle or facility.
30.29.

Sleeping or dozing where such activity may, in RTD’s opinion, cause concern for the

RTD Code of Conduct – December 20, 2016, Revised April 21July
XX, 2020
Page 3

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: RTD Code of Coduct (6-15-2020) 4845-9148-5888 v.1 (4237 : Revised Code of Conduct)

19.18.
Use of a bull horn or similar device to willfully disrupt the provision of transit
services or public safety.

1.C.1.a

person’s wellbeing. In these cases, RTD may conduct a wellness check. be hazardous to the person
or others or may interfere with the operation of RTD’s system or the comfort of RTD
passengers or patrons.

32.31.

Camping without a permit.

33.32.
Storing personal property (except for designated areas such as bike lockers/racks
when using transit) without a permit.
34.33.
Occupying or traversing landscaped areas (other than lawns intended for public
use).
35. Remaining at a facility after being asked to leave, for violation of this Code or other
applicable rules. RTD may, in its sole discretion, regulate the movement of individuals to
enable the provision of transit services. Facilities are to be used only for travel-related
purposes, except when a permit is otherwise granted, so that passengers can utilize the
transit system in a safe and efficient manner without inconvenience or delay.
36.34.
Blocking or impeding the movement of another person or blocking a seat or an
aisle, elevator, escalator, door, or stairway with one’s body or any object (except a
mobility aid), in a way that poses a danger, unreasonably impedes a patron’s movement
or ability to sit, or displaces a person (subject to ADA reasonable modification, see Code
Section 4).
37. Occupying, obstructing, or placing an item or object on any seat other than the single
seat being occupied by the passenger, in a manner that restricts others from being able
to use that seat (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
38.35.

Failing to clear a designated wheelchair/mobility device area upon RTD request.

39.36.
Impeding the safe boarding or exiting of passengers or restricting the opening or
closing of doors.
40.37.

Unauthorized use of an electrical or data outlet in any RTD vehicle ofor facility.

Wheeled devices
41.38.
Using or riding a skateboard, inline or roller skates, bicycle, scooter, Segway,
hoverboard, or other wheeled personal transportation device (unless used as a mobility
aid for the disabledan individual with a disability) on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property
(strollers, non-ridden and non-straddled bicycles, and wheeled luggage are permitted);
42.39.
Using any wheeled device unsafely (i.e., in a manner that could cause injury to the
rider or other patrons).
43.40.
Placing a bicycle on any RTD vehicle in other than designated locations or without
staying next to the bicycle.

Sanitation
44.41.

Bathing or , washing clothes, or leaving needles in RTD restrooms.

RTD Code of Conduct – December 20, 2016, Revised April 21July
XX, 2020
Page 4

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: RTD Code of Coduct (6-15-2020) 4845-9148-5888 v.1 (4237 : Revised Code of Conduct)

31.30.
Entering or remaining on RTD property or vehicle while a person is so severely
impaired by the consumption of alcohol or by the taking of any drugs that the person is
unable to’s ability to function safely in the environment of a transit system is impaired
by the consumption of alcohol or by the taking of any drugs.

1.C.1.a

45.42.
Leaving needles in RTD restrooms except in designated Sharps Disposal
Containers.
46.43.
Failure to wear soled footwear, shirts/tops, and pants/shorts/skirts in an RTD
vehicle or facility (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).

48.45.
Fouling Intentionally soiling any seat or other area (other than designated trash
receptacles) with liquids, soils, greases, oils, foods, litter, urine, feces, other bodily fluids,
or any other substances.
49.46.
Intentionally Ccausing a repulsive odor so extreme and unavoidable that it causes
a nuisance, unreasonably interferes with the use, operation, or enjoyment of an RTD
vehicle or facility, or creates a direct threat or unsafe condition. disruptive odor (subject
to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
50.47.

Spitting, urinating, or defecating other than in facilities intended for such purposes.

51.48.

Engaging in public nudity or indecent exposureexposing one’s anus or genitals.

52. Exposing one’s anus or genitals.

Other Prohibited or Illegal Activity
53.49.
Any illegal activity under any applicable federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or
regulation, including but not limited to: assault, menacing, theft, possession of illegal
drugs, counterfeiting, littering, vandalism, hindering public transportation (CRS 18-9114), and endangering public transportation (CRS 18-9-115).
54. 50. Failure to obey anycomply with a reasonable request directive from an RTD
employee or representative related to RTD operational policies. For example, RTD’s
Trailblazer Operators Guide contains many procedures and requirements related to ADA
policies, including wheelchair securement, boarding with strollers and other large items,
passenger locations on vehicles, and other topics.
4. The ADA and Reasonable Modification:
Under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), transportation entities are required to make reasonable
modifications to their policies, practices, and procedures to avoid discrimination and ensure that their
programs are accessible to individuals with disabilities. In accordance with this directive, RTD will make
every effort, to the maximum extent feasible, to ensure that a person with a disability has access to,
and benefits from, its services. RTD will make reasonable modifications to its policies, programs, and
procedures applicable to its transportation services when necessary to avoid discrimination and ensure
accessibility for people with disabilities. There may be certain situations when RTD’s policies and
procedures do not achieve ADA objectives/accessibility. A modification to these policies and procedures
may be needed to ensure that a passenger with a disability has access our services. Examples of
reasonable modification can be found on RTD’s website under the Accessibility section. When making
a reasonable modification for an individual with a disability, the modification is not intended to:
•Cause a direct threat to the health and safety of others
•Create undue financial and administrative burdens
•Constitute a fundamental alteration to a service
RTD Code of Conduct – December 20, 2016, Revised April 21July
XX, 2020
Page 5

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: RTD Code of Coduct (6-15-2020) 4845-9148-5888 v.1 (4237 : Revised Code of Conduct)

47.44.
Putting shoes/feet up on a seat on any seat in an RTD facility or vehicle station,
platform, or vehicle.

1.C.1.a

• Be more than necessary to provide equal access to an RTD service

Any questions or concerns on reasonable modification should be directed to RTD’s Division of Civil
Rights, ADA Managers Office: 303-299-2221.

RTD will comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
in the administration of this Code of Conduct.
If violations of this Code of Conduct appear or are claimed to be caused by a disability, RTD
personnel are to contact Dispatch or Security for advice and assistance.
Enforcement will be conducted in a fair and reasonable manner. A person who engages in any of the
above prohibited conduct may be warned and/or ordered to immediately exit the RTD vehicle, facility,
or property by an RTD Transit Police Officera law enforcement officer, an RTD Transit Security
Officer, an RTD Bus/Light Rail/Commuter Rail Line Supervisor, or other authorized RTD personnel.
Such personnel are authorized to issue an order to the person to exit RTD property for up to the
remainder of the service day.
Situations where a person refuses to leave an RTD vehicle, facility, or property after being ordered to
do so may be considered trespassing and may be referred to law enforcement personnel.
A person who engages in any of the above prohibited conduct may also, or instead, be issued a
suspension by RTD, suspending the person from all RTD vehicles, properties, and services for a
determined amount of time pursuant to RTD’s Service Suspension policy and procedures.
A person ordered to leave or suspended from RTD property will not be entitled to any refund of unused
fare media that may expire during the time of the person’s exclusion.
Suspension or orders to exit RTD property may be appealed pursuant to RTD’s Service Suspension
policy and procedures.
In addition to any other enforcement under this Code, riding an RTD vehicle without evidence that the
proper fare has been paid may be treated in accordance with Colorado Traffic Code, C.R.S. § 42-41416.
In addition to any other enforcement under this Code, illegal activity may result in a citation under any
applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation, or ordinance, including C.R.S. § 18-9-114 - Hindering
Transportation (Class 2 Misdemeanor), and C.R.S. § 18-9-115 - Endangering Public Transportation and
Utility Transmission (Class 3 Felony).
This Code of Conduct does not seek to limit, replace, or conflict with any federal, state, or
local law, regulation, or ordinance and does not limit or prevent any law enforcement
agency or entity from taking any lawful action against any person on any RTD vehicle,
facility, or property.
RTD Code of Conduct – December 20, 2016, Revised April 21July
XX, 2020
Page 6

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: RTD Code of Coduct (6-15-2020) 4845-9148-5888 v.1 (4237 : Revised Code of Conduct)

5. Enforcement:

