2020-06-17
Ad Hoc Committee
RTD-Code-of-Conduct
KATE WILLIAMS: Somebody's making some interesting background noises and should probably
be on mute.
MICHAEL: I think it's our chair getting organized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it's not me.
How are you, sir?
PAUL BALLARD: Good morning. OK. Short night.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. It was a short night. All right. All right, I have eight o'clock.
So I'm going to go ahead and get started. And I would like to call to order the ad hoc accountability
committee on the code of conduct.
Before I start, I need to do a safety briefing. And let me just say that as cities and states across the
country begin to reopen, we are beginning to see a resurgence of the COVID-19 virus in some
areas, such this information bears repeating if we are to remain vigilant in the weeks and months
to come. Please avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands, covering your
cough or sneeze with the tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. If you don't have a tissue, cough
or sneeze into the upper sleeve or elbow, not your hands.
Stay at home when you are feeling sick, self monitor for flu-like symptoms, and consult your
doctor's office via phone as necessary. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces, both at
work and at home. When soap and water aren't available, use hand sanitizer with a concentration
of at least 60% alcohol. Washing your hands is still one of the most effective ways to prevent the
spread of the virus. Be sure to lather each and every part in your hand and scrub for at least 20
seconds-- 30 seconds is better.
Wearing a mask has also shown to reduce the spread of the virus. RTD patrons are encouraged to
wear masks when using public transportation. For RTD employees, please refer to the signage in
your work areas, as well as the recent letter from our chief safety officer, Mike Meader, on the
topic of mask use in the workplace. And lastly, though cities and counties are beginning to relax
their stay-at-home orders, for your safety and the safety of others in our community, continue to
avoid closed exposure to the outside of your household to the greatest extent possible. And this
includes practicing social distancing aboard buses, and trains, and around station, stops, and
platforms. Thank you.

OK. So one of the things that we want to do on the agenda is to review all of the changes made
based upon all of your input. So I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Meader to take it from here.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, chair. So good morning, everyone. What we wanted to do today
was-- well, let me step back. Our last meeting, on the 3rd of June, we went through the code of
conduct, just looking at all of the suggestions from everybody on the committee. And there were
some fantastic suggestions about how we could make some edits to our code, really focus more on
the education side of things first. We certainly-- trying to make it a little bit more person-centric,
people-centric, as we discussed amongst the group.
And so we spent several hours going through and making some suggested changes based upon
those comments. So today I wanted to go ahead and walk through all of those changes that we
made, see if there's any other discussion or if we actually hit the mark. And hopefully that's what
we'll find here.
So I'll go ahead and go through this, starting from the very top. One of the things I'll add also is
that we went through all of the paragraphs of the code. So not just the specific rules, but we went
through all of the paragraphs again, just trying to make sure that the language-- because words are
important-- states what the intent of the code is.
So with that, we'll get started. And hopefully everybody has a copy of this. I know John-- I believe
John sent it out-- John McKay-- earlier in the week. So bear with me. We'll go through. Stop me
if you have a comment, and we'll continue to make sure we take copious notes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader, before you start, may I have Ms. McManus take the
roll call.
MIKE MEADER: Oh, absolutely.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Good morning, everyone.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good morning.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mahalak. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Evan Dreier. Paul Pazen. Britta Fisher.

BRITTA FISHER: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Gary Briscowitz. Aubrey Hasvold.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Denise Mays. Carly Saylon. Bob Dorsheimer. Kate Barton.
KATE BARTON: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Paul Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Good morning,
BARBARA MCMANUS: Michael Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Good morning.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mike Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: John McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And myself Barbara McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Did I miss anybody on the call? I'm sorry. Bob Grotto.
BOB GROTTO: I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Great. Did I miss anybody else on the call?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Yes, Marisela.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh. Hi, Marisela. Sorry about that.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: It's OK. Good morning.

BARBARA MCMANUS: We're good to go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Hi, Barbara. This is Ken. So you may have called me and I didn't hear you or
something.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, it's this Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Meader, it's yours.
MIKE MEADER: All right. Thank you, Madam Chair. We'll start with the very beginning, the
very first paragraph of the code, titled Purpose. We change some language in there really to
reinforce RTD's commitment to all constituents to offer that the transportation service it's clean,
safe, reliable. This is pretty much our mission statement. But, again, we wanted to make sure we
changed the language slightly to ensure that everyone felt more inclusiveness and demonstrate our
commitment.
Also added a sentence right after that-- "RTD strives to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and
has equal access to transportation." Again, the commitment statement.
BRITTA FISHER: Mike, are you sharing your screen?
MIKE MEADER: I thought I was.
BRITTA FISHER: We are not seeing it.
MIKE MEADER: Let me try this again.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ah, there it is.
MIKE MEADER: Can you see it now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. Yeah, very clear.
MIKE MEADER: Operator error. I apologize. OK, I'll continue through this. Also, we had a lot of
discussion about the educational aspect of the code. And so we added a sentence-- and by the way,

up front, let me just recognize and thank Marisela. She really is the voice behind the words here
in putting these things together. So thank you for that, Marisela.
We added the language, "Prior to enforcement, RTD will make every attempt to first educate a
person on conduct prohibited by this code." And as we discussed before, and, really, this is the
practice that we teach and we push for all of our security officers and police officers, if somebody
is doing something, to go up there first inform them that what they're doing is prohibited under the
passenger code of conduct. And, of course, if the behavior stops, whatever that is, there isn't going
to be any further enforcement of anything unless it's some kind of a heinous activity or something.
But that is typically what we try to do. But we put it in words right there so that everyone
understood that that is really what's going to happen very first is to educate.
And those are the major changes. One other change we made there was just prohibited conduct by
this code. So again, we're just directing the conduct that we might be discussing with a person to
actual things that are in the code.
And again, if there's any questions, comments, go ahead and stop me. But I'll keep going. In the
second paragraph of authority, we changed the date. So the amendment date, the assumption is
we'll have this approved here as we go through this ad hoc committee on or around July 2020.
We'll go to paragraph 3. That's the prohibited conduct. And we'll walk through each one of these
changes that we made now,
And these, again, most of them respond to comments that were made in previous meetings. This
particular one, as we went through this too, we were looking to try to consolidate. I think it was
Director Williams that made the statement, let's try to kind of hone this a little bit, if there are
things that are similar, or like, or not necessary, let's pull them out and see if we can reduce the
size of it as well, while still keeping the same meaning.
So this is one of those. In the first three-- here at fares/locations-- rules, it talks about fare-- being
within a paid fare zone without proper payment of the proper fare, many of these kind of spoke to
the same thing. So we deleted the very first one, which was using any RTD services without prior
payment of the proper fare, and we added proper fare language to number three, which, in effect,
was saying a very similar thing. And so we combined these.
So number 1 was deleted. Number 3 was changed, as you can see here, to say riding an RTD
vehicle without proper fare or complying with RTD fare payment management systems, which we
needed to add as the technology changes. And so we were able to eliminate one of them and still
have the same meaning and understanding of what the expectation is, that you should have fare if
you're riding on the RTD system.
SHONTEL LEWIS: May I ask a question?
MIKE MEADER: Sure

BARBARA MCMANUS: It looks like, for the fare-paid zone, beginning with any RTD fare-paid
zone, I think I might have asked you about this earlier. There was some confusion for me about
whether this was previously approved. I know when it had come to the board, it didn't-- the farepaid zone was something we were striving to but wasn't something that we had agreed to include.
And so, we might just want to make sure that that specific language should be included, because
I'd hate for the rest of the board to feel like we had a discussion about the fare-paid zoned as a
discussion, and now it's being implemented and policy.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. Yeah, we do have it in our in our language that areas of the system, like
platforms, those kinds of things, certain areas are an expectation that you would have fare being
there. And it's really more of a designating. We're going to talk a little bit more about signage and
some of those kinds of things too, to help communicate that. But we can certainly have that
discussion.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: And Mike, if I may, Director Lewis, it was in the prior version in
December 20, 2016. So that language was in there in that specific code.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: A version of the code.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Marisela. We had in some-- I'm conflating two
conversations, so I might be confusing folks.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Oh, sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. No, it's OK. I might speak with Mr. Meader offline.
MIKE MEADER: OK. That's fine. Thank you. OK, we'll keep moving down here.
And as we go along now, I'll be calling out the new numbers that you see here for each one of
these rules, because there's a number of places where we've combined or eliminated some of these.
So the numbers have changed. The next change we made to language is in number 5 now. And
"Failing to leave an RTD vehicle," what it was stated before was "failing to leave an RTD vehicle
upon reaching the destination for which fare was purchased." And so we changed that.
Obviously, if you have purchased some fare, let's say it's a timed pass, you can ride the system. So
we changed the language to say, "Failing to leave an RTD vehicle once fare has expired," if you're,
say, on a three-hour pass, or upon reaching the fare zone for which fare was purchased. An example
of that would be traveling from the union station to the airport, for example-- traveling to that
particular fare zone. So we just wanted to clarify that, that there are fare media out there that would
allow you to ride for a specific amount of time.
The next one was number 9. There were some questions about the use of RTD facilities-- so trying
to clarify that. The original language was, "violating the terms of or failing to have possession of
an RTD facility's use permit when required." And we basically kind of, again, tried to clarify that

by saying there's a vendor license. If you go out to the website, if you're wanting to conduct some
kind of business at one of these facilities, you would go to the facilities use policy. On our website,
you would put in a request for that. And you would either be given a license to do that if it was an
activity that was permitted, or you would be denied that if it was something that was prohibited.
So we just tried to clarify that part of it. And then, also, in that use policy, there's some clarification
about commercial activity and certain other activities that would require a permit. So a little bit
more clarification there by adding commercial activity and certain other activities "that, for
example, involve use of equipment or may attract large crowds require such a license or permit."
And again, that information is spelled out more in the facilities use policy.
There's another place here in the code we'll go to that actually provides a link to that policy. So
we'll get to that as well. So those were some questions that came up, and hopefully that language
clarified that.
The next one was number 13. Excuse me. And this was a question about drinking on the RTD
vehicle. There was some concern or some confusion around, could you drink or could you not
drink? Are we just talking about alcoholic beverages-- those kinds of things. So we wanted to add
some clarity.
And the new language we came up with was, "Drinking any beverage without a lid on any RTD
vehicle." So we simplified that, hopefully clarifying it. You can certainly take your coffee on the
train in the morning if you have a lid on it. We're really just trying to avoid spills, those kinds of
things, that might occur if you don't have a lid on your beverage. But it's any beverage.
We'll continue down to number 20. And here's where I mentioned before "Engaging in activities
not authorized by RTD's facilities use policy." And we put a link to that policy in the code. So if
someone is curious exactly what activities are permitted and what activities are not permitted, they
can click on that link, and it spells it out in the facilities use policy.
Number 21-- this was one that garnered quite a bit of discussion and it's regarding to animals and
particularly service animals. And there were a couple of points brought up about RTD. How is
RTD going to be able to prove? It's really something we should leave to our operators to determine.
And we agreed.
So what we did was we simplified this to take out part of the language about RTD proving to its
satisfaction. And the new language states simply that taking an animal into an RTD facility or
vehicle or within a fare-paid zone, unless the animal is intended and trained to assist a person with
a disability. Number 2, the animal is in training to assist the person with a disability, or, 3, the
animal is in an appropriate animal carrier.
Basically, you can take an animal. If you were driving out to the airport, you can take an animal
on the airplane if they're in a carrier. You can certainly transport it on our system if they're in an
appropriate carrier if they're not being used as a service animal. So that takes that subjective aspect
of it out-- out of the equation.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Question of clarity for you, Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: The last sentence, it says, "All dogs must have proof of current vaccinations
required by the local jurisdictions in which the animals are traveling." I'm not in disagreement with
this-- I'm wondering how this-- who would be the person verifying this?
MIKE MEADER: You know we're not putting it-- I'm sorry, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, you're probably going-- I just hope the expectation is not that our
operators have to check for verification of vaccinations.
MIKE MEADER: No. No, we're not putting that on our operators. Just kind of stating kind of what
the law is there, just to make sure folks are doing those things. That would be the expectation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael, just to clarify though, the operator in their engagement with the
customer that has the animal is just asking, is that a service animal. Is that what they're then-KATE WILLIAMS: This is so boring.
MICHAEL FORD: Sorry?
MIKE MEADER: I mean, obviously most-- the only situation really that arises here is if we've got
an animal coming onto a vehicle that appears to be aggressive or certainly isn't behaving as a
service animal. Service animals are trained to be around a lot of people in those kinds of places
and behave.
MICHAEL FORD: Right, right.
MIKE MEADER: So as long as the animal isn't showing any signs of aggressiveness or something
like that, there shouldn't be any questions or interactions in that regard. But yes, they could, if they
had some question about the safety-- they are in charge of the safety of the vehicle, obviously. And
only under those circumstances would we expect those questions come up.
MICHAEL FORD: Right. I just want to be clear about what they are permitted to ask, so we're
making sure that they have the proper tools to navigate that situation.
MIKE MEADER: Yes.
MICHAEL FORD: Just want to be clear.

MIKE MEADER: No, thank you.
BOB GROTTO: Hey, Mike.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah.
BOB GROTTO: This is Bob Grotto. The vaccination is just a dog tag.
MIKE MEADER: Right.
BOB GROTTO: They don't carry papers or things. The dog should have tags.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah.
BOB GROTTO: That's how we've done it so.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah. We'll keep moving. Number 22-- we added some language here, a good
suggestion, just changing the language really. The language prior on this rule was about
"Obstructing passengers with disabilities from accessing features necessary to enable disabled
passengers." We changed it to a more people-centric "passengers with disabilities" versus
"disabled passengers." And there was a couple spots in the code where we worded the language
that way and we made that same change.
We'll move on down to number 27. This was a question about occupying more than one seat of an
RTD vehicle. The language originally stated that "Occupying more than one seat per person of an
RTD vehicle or facility, subject to ADA reasonable modification was prohibited." There were
some questions brought up about a couple of scenarios where someone might be-- one was if it
was an obese person or if there was some sort of a medical condition, obviously, that might require
them to take up a little more space.
So we changed that language to "Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle."
We're not going to challenge someone who, because of a physical disability or their size, sitting
down there. The other question came up was, can they purchase more than one seat? No, they
cannot. Not like on the airlines. So we felt like this captured the intent of what we were trying to
accomplish.
Number 29-- sleeping or dozing. This was one that we talked about quite a bit, particularly that
there was a feeling that someone sleeping on one of the vehicles or in a facility might be targeted,
might be kind of a target or a profiling. And so we talked about the reasons why we would approach
someone who was sleeping or dozing. And the primary reason we would do that is out of concern
for a person's well-being. We do thousands and thousands of welfare checks, and I think chief
Grotto mentioned before that there have been instances where people appeared to have sleeping
and they actually passed away on the vehicles.
So with that in mind, and really that being the intent of what we're trying to say here, we changed
the language to say "Sleeping or dozing where such activity may cause concern for the person's

well-being. In these cases, RTD may conduct a wellness check." And that really is exactly what
we do. That's how we began every one of those encounters. So we just clarified that.
BRITTA FISHER: Hey Mike, this is Britta. Just a quick question. 28 was another one that had
caused some discussion.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you Britta.
BRITTA FISHER: Can you just tell me what you concluded there?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. Yes, we did look at this. And basically, is this really an issue for us, and
does it occur pretty frequently where there's a concern for blocking conveyance or people's
movement in a safe manner? And the answer to that was, yes, it does. The second piece of that
was, are we applying this equitably? I think, was a lot of the concern.
And as we go back and we look at these, I have personally experienced a number of situations,
when I spent time over there, where I do see this rule being applied very equitably. It certainly isn't
just applied to particular populations. But in the interest of safety, because it happens often enough
where people are just sitting down on stairwells, platforms where it might be unsafe, blocking or
in the path of moving to a doorway to get to a bus, we decided that this is one that, yeah, we really
need to keep as is. It was very difficult to try to kind of wordsmith this to put in every possibility
that might be OK and which possibility may not.
This is going to be one of those situations, obviously, where if we've got some severe snowstorm
outside or something like that, we've got a lot of people in there, all of the seats are taken, it would
be a conversation just like you see at the airport. Sure, if you're delayed for an hour or so and you
need to sit down here, as long as we're not blocking or creating a safety hazard, we would approach
those situations on an individual basis. But this is a concern, because it does happen pretty
frequently, and we felt we needed to keep the language just as it was. Does that answer your
question, Britta.
BRITTA FISHER: It tells me what you're thinking, yes.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you. OK, number 30-- this was another question. It's regarding
impairment either by consumption of alcohol or some other drugs. And there were a few comments
made about this, that, hey, don't you want people to ride RTD if they're too drunk to drive their
car? And the answer to that is, absolutely. I don't want him getting behind the wheel of their car
and causing harm to people.
So we looked at this and what the intent of this is, but also balancing the fact that-KATE WILLIAMS: I have no idea.
MIKE MEADER: [INTERPOSING VOICES]. Trains operate in a very dangerous environment,
buses too in a very congested environment. And the intent here was that we don't want someone
either who is so severely impaired that there's a risk they fall in front of a train, fall under a train,

fall in front of the bus, get run over by the back wheels, those kinds of things. So we tried to clarify
the language of this to really reinforce that emphasis. "Entering or remaining on RTD property or
vehicle while a person is so severely impaired by the consumption of alcohol or the taking of drugs
that the person is unable to function safely in the environment of a transit system."
Now, let me say this. If we do see someone who seems very impaired to the point that we have
these concerns, we don't just say, hey, get off the property. Stay away. We try to get them help.
That'd be a detox, perhaps, if that's what it's needed. If we sense that there may be some kind of a
mental health component, we do have our mental health clinician that can help us as well.
We're not just going to try to kick them off our property and have them just figure things out. But
we don't want him or her being in a position where they could get severely injured around the
operations of our transit system.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Mr. Meader, I think that we had talked also about if it's a
medical issue, then we would call for help grow them as well, right?
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely. OK, number 35-- that has been stricken from the code. So we
removed that in its entirety. Excuse me.
Number 34-- now, which was formerly 36 and 37, here's another one that we combined. Both of
them talked about occupying or obstructing, putting an item, whatnot, in a place that would restrict
others from being able to maneuver where they needed to go, i.e. to an elevator, to a door, onto the
bus, and a place. One spoke about a seat specifically. The other spoke about some of those other
things.
And when we looked at this, we felt we could just put those two together and include them. So we
took number 34, kept the language the same as it was before, about "Blocking or impeding the
movement of another person or blocking a seat." So we added the seat to that as well-- "an aisle,
elevator, escalator, door, or stairway with one's body or any object , except a mobility aid, in a way
that poses a danger, unreasonably impedes a patron's movement or ability to sit, or displaces a
person. And, of course, we put the disclaimer there, if you want to call it that, subject to ADA
reasonable modification.
BRITTA FISHER: Hey, Mike, just a question. Sure. With 34 being pretty inclusive, can you tell
me a little bit more why 28 is still necessary?
MIKE MEADER: 28.
BRITTA FISHER: That's the sitting or lying.

MIKE MEADER: Oh. Yeah. We did we did talk through this. Let me think back. We didn't make
the change. And so, as you caught me, Britta, I didn't have the notes written down specifically.
Chief or Marisela, can you recall what our internal conversation was there?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: My understanding-- and Chief, it'd probably be best if you had of
comment-- but that lying, sitting is such a huge operational issue at the facilities. While we don't
want to be unreasonable, it was my understanding that the security team just-- it's a huge issue.
And so to avoid that discretion of TSOs and maybe arbitrary enforcement, we thought we'd call it
out specifically and apply it equitably to all.
So I challenged them on that. Are you going to tell a person who's sitting in really nice clothes to
get up if they're sitting down? And I was told, yes. So, Chief, do you have anything to add to that
sentiment?
BOB GROTTO: Yeah. I think that's pretty much what I was going to say-- the same thing. The
other one specifically relates to a seat, because that is such an issue where we have folks will get
on a train or bus and put backpacks, and they'll take up two or three seats. So in discussion we
thought it's best just to leave that there, just to make sure it's perfectly clear.
MIKE MEADER: It was more for clarifying, Britta, But that is a good question. It's more for
clarifying that particular issue that we do we see a lot. So we, again, didn't want to have any kind
of arbitrary application of these things. So it spells it out pretty clear.
OK, we'll keep moving on. Number 37-- this was a question about the use of electrical or data
outlets in any RTD facility. Originally it said unauthorized use. What did that mean? I understand
where that was a little bit unclear what that meant. We are looking at some options for creating
some zones, let's say, where it's very clear that these are places for charging stations. We talked
through this with facilities.
Right now we do need to have those outlets available for various activities that they do. We have
certain pieces of equipment that are actually plugged into outlets. For whatever reason, that's the
way that they are actually working. And although we tried to secure those, they do get continually
unplugged. So we're focusing on trying to put some specific designated areas that people can
charge electrical items.
We recognize that that's the world we live in today. But to make sure, until we get that
accomplished, that everyone understands that they can't go over and just plug in to any electrical
outlet, we left this in here, just with the clarification that's with any vehicle or in any RTD vehicle
or facility. Right now it's prohibited to use those electrical outlets. And I can promise you I'm
working as quickly as I can having those discussions with facilities about how we can change that.
OK, we'll move to number 38. Again, this was part of the change where we had talked about
basically changing the adjective disabled to an individual with a disability, again, trying to
personalize that a little bit more people-centric. So that's what we included in 38. The rest of that
language, there wasn't any kind of concern about that language in our previous discussions.

Moving down to number 41, under the title sanitation, we did a couple things here, really just
trying to clarify what we meant in terms of the prohibited behavior from bathing or washing. There
were some questions. Does that mean I can't go and wash my face and hands? Understanding that
this needed to be tightened up a little bit. And we also had leaving needles in that same sentence.
So the two things here, 41 and 42, we pulled the needle part of that out and we made a separate-excuse me-- line in the code that discusses needles. That leaves 41 very simple and, I think,
straightforward, that prohibited behavior is bathing or washing clothes in RTD restrooms. And this
lines up word for word with the library's code of conduct. So we reference the library's code of
conduct quite a bit as we went through and made some of these changes for consistency's sake.
We thought that was an excellent document. And so that pretty much lines up with the language
in there, and I think it makes it pretty clear what the behavior-- certainly you can wash your hands,
and your face, and do all of those kinds of things you would expect.
Number 42, as I said, we added this one, specifying leaving needles in RTD restrooms is
prohibited, except in designated Sharps disposal containers. So the problem we were trying to
eliminate was what we see often is needles left on the counter or in the corners, flushed down the
toilet, a lot of those kinds of situations. And I think it makes it pretty clear that there's a place for
them, and that's where we would like to see them for safety reasons. .
Number 43 was regarding basically what's expected in terms of what we would expect someone
to be wearing when they're riding or in our facilities. The confusing part of this was that we had
said failure to wear soled footwear, and that created some confusion as to what that was. Really,
the intent here is we don't want people in stocking feet or barefoot, for safety reasons, walking
around. So we remove the word soled, and just made it very clear that we expect people will have
footwear, shirts and tops, pants, shorts, skirts, anytime they're on one of our vehicles or in a facility.
And again, recognizing that there may be some ADA modification that may be required for some
of these things.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael, would we want to add the mask there too or is that just going to be
posted and continue to be posted?
MIKE MEADER: I think we're going to continue to post that. Hopefully this is going to be
something that's going to not be with us the rest of our lives. So we're going to just kind of
concentrate and reinforce that through separate signage as well while we're going through this.
And I think that's the best way for us to get compliance on that. But that's a great question.
BOB GROTTO: Hey, Mike, can I interrupt one second?
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Bob grotto again. Speaking of signage, we are looking at better signage
too at certain facilities. We took a look at Union station, the bus box in particular, and we don't
really have signage down there. So as far as asking people to sit in the seated areas and things like
that, we are going to make that a little more clear to people in those facilities.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MIKE MEADER: So we're going to utilize some signage at entrances and also looking at utilizing
some of our public information displays, the ones down there that are actually showing routes, and
times, and those kinds of things, and alternating with some reinforcement of some of these-- the
code of conduct, just so people understand it a little better. OK, we'll move to number 44, putting
shoes, feet, up on-- and this was worded a little bit confusing. There were some questions about
what did we mean by putting shoes or feet on a platform or in a facility, so we, again, tightened
that up to reinforce the fact that what we're talking about is putting your shoes or feet up on any
seat in any of those areas.
So the new language says putting shoes or feet up on any seat in an RTD facility or vehicle. And
that would cover if you're sitting on a station platform, if you're sitting in union station, civic center,
wherever that is. the expectation is that you would sit in the seat and not put your feet up on the
seat.
45-- we made a slight change here. Well, actually two changes. The original language talked about
fouling any seat or other area with a type of liquid grease, bodily fluid, et cetera. I think the word
fouling was confusing to several people-- what does that mean exactly? So we decided to change
that word to soiling. Although fouling kind of means what we said, it's not as familiar to most
people. So we decided to use the word soiling any seat. I think that people will understand better.
And then the other thing we added to this was intent. So intentionally doing it. We recognize that
there are people with some conditions where they may lose control of their bladder or something
like that, and it may just happen. And we certainly don't want to criticize and penalize those people
for things like that. So if it's an intentional soiling of any seat or other area with any of those things
or other substances, that is a prohibited behavior.
Number 46 also garnered a lot of discussion. And this was-- it's good discussion. We really thought
through this-- how were we going to approach this. I think most of the concern we talked about
repulsive odors centered around severe body odor or something like that. We recognize people
who are experiencing homeless and might not have an opportunity to shower are probably going
to have some odor. And recognizing that, we wanted to change the language here to say that that's
going to happen, we understand it, we're not going to get on to you if something like that is
happening.
On the flip side, we had to account for someone intentionally bringing something that created a
very strong odor that may interfere with the operators ability to drive the bus or train, that would
be so repulsive. And we talk about a stink bomb, or some kind of a chemical, or something like
that into the vehicle or into the facility. So we changed the language here, hopefully, to capture
those two things, with an intent language right at the beginning.
So the new language was changed pretty much in total. "Intentionally causing a repulsive odor so
extreme and unavoidable that it causes a nuisance, unreasonably interferes with the use, operation,
or enjoyment of an RTD vehicle or facility, or creates a direct threat or unsafe condition." Again,

leaving the language in there for a reasonable modification for ADA questions. Hopefully that
captures that spirit of what we were discussing.
Number 48-- we changed that language. Actually, we combined two here, as a matter of fact, the
previous 51 and 52. Both of them stated kind of the same thing, but we added 52 into 48. The
language now reads, "Engaging in public nudity or exposing one's anus or genitals."
OK. And then number 50, which is now the last item here in the code. The original language stated
that there any failure to obey any directive from an RTD employee or representative related to
RTD operational policies. And the policies, the examples in here, were the Trailblazer, for
example. So we have a number of documents that spell out what the operational policies are if
you're riding on a bus, if you're on a train, if you're in the facilities, those kinds of things.
And so there are going to be times maybe when someone is doing something that's not specified
in the code, but from an operational perspective, let's say a facilities use kind of a thing or
something that might be happening too. Or another example might be where we've got a rule that
if you're bringing a large stroller onto a bus, you should fold the stroller up-- those kinds of
operational types of policies. Recognizing that those policies are not clearly posted anywhere-they are on our website. You can see those. And we can certainly direct on the website. We're
going to look at directing people to those if they go to the RTD website.
So here again we went to the libraries code of conduct. And the libraries code of conduct states
very clearly, a "Failure to comply with a reasonable request" about their policies. And so we
borrowed that language, and said, "Failure to comply with reasonable requests from an RTD
employee or representative related to RTD operational policies. So it's a reasonable request. We
can talk about the policies, and that would be a another part of our code we felt we could leave in
that state.
Another thing that we did as we went through the code, there were some questions about "to RTD's
satisfaction," or "in RTD's opinion," those kinds of things. We removed those elements of the code,
where it appeared to create quite a bit of subjectivity. And I know there was one spot earlier up
here I can go back to and show you. So we took care of that.
The next area we reviewed and found that there was a need to add some language was in number
5, enforcement. So we added in that paragraph. "Enforcement will be conducted in a fare and
reasonable manner." Again, reinforcing the fact that it's going to be equitably applied to everyone.
And again, in a fare and reasonable manner.
Furthermore, this paragraph went on to talk about specifically who would be, as we referenced
before, an RTD representative or something. We had separated out some groups that are very
similar and listing them. So we kind of combined that. We struck the language that specifically
said in RTD transit police officer and added a law enforcement officer. We do have, currently,
secondary employment officers that work with us from the different police agencies around the
jurisdiction. And then left the rest of the language in there, that they're a security officer.

And then, of course, our rail line supervisors, those are the people that are primarily would be
interacting with someone where there might be a question about operational policies or the code,
and it just stated that, those are the people that are authorized to educate people about the code and
issue any order if someone is continuing to display some behaviors that are prohibited. So those
are the changes that were made throughout the code, based upon all of the discussion. And I just
wanted to show, you back here in number 1, the purpose, about the fourth line, fifth line down,
where we took out "in RTD's sole determination." So we removed any kind of a reference to
subjectivity out of the code, and that's one of the other examples here.
Questions or comments? I know there were some questions along the way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I think what I'd like to do is go through and call on every
member to be able to make comments. I'm going to start with our community members. So Britta.
BRITTA FISHER: Thanks, Madam Chair. Just a couple overall comments. And again, I'm utilizer
of the trains and buses on the system. And when I think about that, there's a couple things I think
about. I'm most concerned, from my own use and just generally user sensibilities, on rules 28 and
37.
And how I would express that is that I prefer nudges. Or if any of you have read the book Nudge,
it talks basically about choice engineering. And I think in our society that we want to be
autonomous, we want to have discretion, and things like that. And so, I prefer rules and nudges
that are more permissive with limits on impacts. So making sure that you're not impacting others,
rather than things that are overly prohibitive.
And I feel like, in our discussions of rules 28 and 37-- 28 is the lying or sitting on the floor, or 37
is use of an electrical outlet-- I think both of those have real impacts to the service and enjoyment
of passengers of RTD. I think it is extremely hard to tell people to never lie or sit on a floor, and
that your security officers will be telling people to do that a lot-- to get up off the floor, and so
forth. And to be equitable in that application, I fear, will be a challenge.
I also just think some of the things that make RTD great are things like having Wi-Fi and outlets.
Passengers who are going to have long commutes know that they can charge up their phones. And,
frankly, one of the reasons that I like taking the train is it's 45 minutes where I can be connected
to my device and not being at risk of other passengers. So I can do two things at once in that time.
And I just think that is also going to be a real pain to prohibit equitably and to all outlets and all
data outlets. I think I would really encourage you to consider, rather than being universally
prohibitive, to really take the time and assess labeling the things that can't be unplugged and
securing outlets that shouldn't be unplugged, rather than the overly prohibitive approach.
A couple other things that I would just say on other rules, the bathing or washing clothes, the
failure to wear footwear, the putting feet up on any seat-- again. I think there's going to be
discretion and things like that. And so, I understand all of that. I think it gets away, again, from
impacts. Like, what are the impacts of that, and how might we state this?

So I know, from my work in rules with shelters and so forth, no one reads 58 rules. They just don't.
And at that point, it becomes a game of trying to find the rule that you can break when you've read
58 rules. What are going to be your rules that you state on signage? Like to the general public,
you're not going to state 58 rules at every door of every train and bus. I mean, I get why there end
up being rules overall, but what are the ones that are simple and proactive?
So as I read through this, I tried to think through, what are the things that you would likely want
to remind people? Please have the proper fare, don't eat, be clothed, please use just one seat-- those
kinds of proactive, short reminders that tell everybody the rules of the game, I think there's going
to be still some stuff to figure out on signage. And then I think the biggest one that I read through
all of these rules is please don't impede the access and enjoyment of other passengers utilizing
RTD. I think that covers a lot of it.
And so, you may still need to have a lot of rules and a code of conduct, but how you're going to
state these and how they're going to be memorable to those as the shared rules, I would just really
appreciate thoughtfulness about the signage and how this information is conveyed and trained.
Because, I think, at the end of the day, what you're trying to avoid are impacts to the access and
enjoyment of others. And you've covered a lot of scenarios, but people will find others, and so how
do you simply convey that and enforce that. Those are my comments at this time.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Aubrey.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you, Madam Chair. I couldn't agree more with the things that Ms.
Fisher elevated, and those were some of the things that I flagged as well. Number 28, number 37
in particular. I think, overall, we've done a really good job of getting at those impacts and talking
about what does and what doesn't actually impede the delivery of services, talking about what a
hazard really looks like. But I do think that in 28 and 37 we don't do a good job of getting at that.
And I believe Mr. Meader stated that if there's a big snowstorm outside, for example, that we might
waive the rules around sitting and laying on the floor.
So, just as an example, that does introduce some subjectivity in enforcement. So I really do worry
about that, in particular with the population we work with at the Coalition for the Homeless. I do
have some concerns that it would be implemented not equitably.
And then but the point of equitable enforcement, Mr. Meader did mention that in that final
paragraph about enforcement and education, that the goal was equitable enforcement. So I think it
would be great if we could include that language specifically, include that with fair and reasonable.
Because I think that gets a little deeper and really gets out what we're trying to reach here.
So I also wanted to follow up on one other thing. I remember Marisela Sandoval was putting
together a document that had some more details around the different zones in RTD areas, around
ownership and management. And so, I just wanted to see if that was in a form that could be shared
at this point?

MARISELA SANDOVAL: Unfortunately, not yet. We are working on it. I discovered that we
have to do a few tweaks to the graphics. So that's just taking a little bit longer than I anticipated.
But we will-- we're working on it, and it's very important to us to get that out, because we've heard
it loud and clear that people need this clarification. So we definitely get it, and we will distribute
it to this group and hopefully just to the public in general to get that out there better.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you. That's all I've got.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks. Kate Burton.
KATE BARTON: : Hi. Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to just commend you, Madam Chair,
and the board for taking on this piece of work. I think it's really critical that we look at this, and I
think that the changes proposed still allow some clarification, and allow for a people-centric
approach, but also ensure that RTD can continue to provide and deliver safe service for everyone.
So I just want to commend that.
I think that the signage component will be critically important to ensure that RTD's team is able to
address these rules in a way that is equitable. But I overall agree with the changes and believe that
the changes to language really help to clarify and also to ensure that we're being equitable in terms
of application, while still ensuring that RTD can provide safe service. So no additional comments
from my end.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE:
KATE BARTON: : Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: My connection left me a bit so I'm just listening to the conversation, because
I'm actually not sure where you are in the conversation. I'm sorry. I'm just going to keep listening
to you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, fine. What we're doing is we're asking members of any
comments on everything that was presented. But I can come back to you later if you would like
me to. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Hi. Yeah, thank you. My hat's off to Mr. Meader being able to facilitate all these
changes amongst all the other things you've been, I'm sure, staying up real late doing. I think it's a
laudable attempt to capture everybody's-- or at least try to capture everybody's input. It's not going
to be perfect, but I think this is a big step forward and agree that the signage, as some people have
said, is going to be important in the sense that it can be-- I know that the marketing people at RTD
are pretty creative and can come up with something that can be fun, and educational, and impactful
at the same time. But that's all for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I voiced my appreciation for all the input last
night at the board meeting from all those that have given time for this document and more

importantly the thoughts behind it. And I echo that again this morning. Looking at 28 and 37, I
think I have some comfort in 37, knowing that that's temporary. And we do need to be like DIA or
other places and provide the charging stations. So I think that will probably take care of itself over
time if we have the money and the bandwidth to go ahead and put the charging facilities in. And I
think it's something that we need to strive to do for various reasons.
Looking at 28, that's one of the items that I have been approached about from some of my
constituents that commute to work. So that one's pretty important to me. But I notice that we don't
have the word impede or any kind of connotation that maybe would strengthen the need for that,
because there's been great examples from folks earlier in the conversation about the problems
there. But maybe that would be something that could strengthen that enforcement, in that it's more
about impeding the proper flow in and out of doorways, and stairwells, and things of that nature.
So maybe that would be an ad that would help on 28, Mike or Bob. But certainly would welcome
anybody else's input on that as well.
I think, Madam Chair, those are my only specific comments. I appreciate everybody's assistance
on this document. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think that Britta had a lot of really good points.
I think that we need to publish, post, socialize, whatever, some very simple rules. And maybe six
or eight of those that are the most relevant to the comfort of everybody writing. And that was the
phrase that I really liked on, because that's what we're about, is providing safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, comfortable, cost-effective service. So I think this conversation is great, and
we need to keep the document as a whole, but I think that the next step that we want to take as a
group is to condense something that can go on an 8 by 11 sheet of paper, and get laminated, and
get stuck up around the system.
And I'm really grateful to everybody for their input and for taking the time to do this work with
us. That's all I have. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Lewis, I'll come back to
you now. Do you have any comments?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Forgive me, my connection was lost. So if anyone has already said this, just
let me know that this has already been said. Actually, this is the one I wanted to mentioned. So I
have three points that I'd like to make.
RTD strives to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and has equal access to transportation. One of
the things that stands out to me is the equitable enforcement of the things that are in here. And it
makes me think of how RTD employees are socialized to provide care and customer service. So
that's less about what's in this document, but how folks are trained to be able to enforce these
things, and how people know what rules are within this document, including our staff.

The second piece, and I brought this up at our last meeting, was what are our next steps in terms
of public engagement? I'd really like to see the public have access to this for a week, or two weeks,
or whatever the cadence or timeline might be, to provide us with some feedback to see if they feel
like we missed the mark or if they feel like this does a good job of helping them understand how
they should present themselves well in our services. So that's more of a question than a comment.
And then, I think, just generally, I had some concerns around the charging your phones. Well,
people charging-- I'm just generally concerned about it. I don't know if I found the answer in here.
Maybe it's just an evolving conversation, but just wanted to just name it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is that it? OK. Let me start by asking our staff if there's anyone
on the staff who we'd like to make a comment. Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you. First of all, as CEO I really want to thank
everyone who's been working so hard and diligently. Thank you, Madam Chair for organizing this,
for our board members, for our community members who are participating. I also want to
recognize Mike Meader, Chief Grotto, and Marisela on our staff, who are doing a lot of good work
on this.
I do have just a couple of things I want to say. First of all, I agree with Britta on that number 37
with the electrical outlet. If memory serves me right, that was discussed, brought up, and there was
unanimous consent by everyone on the call to do away with that. So I, quite frankly, was surprised
to see it back here.
And what I'm hearing is the problem is that people are unplugging stuff. So instead of having a
rule that says use of an electrical outlet why, don't we have a rule that prohibits what it is we're
trying to prohibit, and say something like unplugging of any RTD device from an outlet for any
reason, period, and just leave it at that. In this day and age, people expect to be able to plug their
phones in and recharge them, whether it's while waiting for a bus or on a vehicle. And so I just-- I
don't know why this showed back up again.
So I would offer that as an alternative-- something to the effect of unplugging any RTD device
from any outlet for any reason, and let people continue to charge. We should be providing charging
outlets. And I just think this is the year 2020, and we should be doing that.
The other issue that Aubrey brought up was on how we post this. What are the most important
rules, and how do we convey that? And I think that probably the simplest and the best way to do
that is to just use the international symbols for what's prohibited, which is the circle with slash.
And you can do really all of these rules with that-- the eating, and the drinking, and-- well, it used
to be smoking, people don't do that much anymore around stations. But you can do it for really all
of these rules, and we have a creative sign shop that can, if the graphics don't exist, and I suspect
pretty much all of them do-- but if they don't, we can create one.
So to me that's the simplest way to-- actually, I agree with the comments that no one's going to sit
down and read all these rules. But these are our guidelines, and these are what our supervisors, and
officers, and security folks will be using to guide them. But we can't expect our passengers to have

really read this. But they can look at the wall of the train, or in the card area on the buses, or posted
in the terminals, and you can see what's prohibited by just using the universal signs.
So those are a couple of my thoughts. And, once again, I really appreciate everybody's dedication
and coming to these 8:00 AM meetings, especially after Tuesday night board meetings, for those
of us on the board and the staff of the RTD. So thank you, Madam Chair, for asking for my
comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a comment. I just think the communication of
these conducts are important, and just thinking about the operational staff and making sure we do
a job of educating them and bringing down information to them in a way that's digestible, so they
feel supported in their everyday work activities. And I've also seen some effective communication
campaigns done with humor. Not to belittle what we're trying to do, but bringing out the
highlighted issues in a way that people can understand, that makes sense, that are common sense
approaches-- and I'm just thinking of maybe some different ways in which we can message these
directives, for lack of better words, in a more positive way, but it also gets at the essence of what
we want people to know. But maybe through some type of humor in the process as well, but also
relaying a message of importance as well.
So I think there's kind of a dualism that we could maybe look at. So that's all, just making sure that
we also don't forget about our employees and helping them understand-- our supervisors-- and just
re-educating them about some of the changes so they feel like they've got supports or tools that
help them as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Marisela.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: No. We just really appreciate all your feedback. It's really made us
take a really close look at this, and we're trying to incorporate it to the best of our ability. So we
just appreciate your time and input.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Chief Grotto.
BOB GROTTO: Yeah, I don't really have a lot more to add, except for I agree that the ultimate
goal is making the transit system enjoyable for all. So I kind of like what Director Williams said
about a condensed sign. Because I agree, people are going to carry this thing in their back pocket
and be pulling it out. So I think that's the next step is to look at that and maybe some kind of simple
signage that's easy to understand. And I think we're heading in the right direction. I appreciate
everyone's help on this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Meader.

MIKE MEADER: Sure. Yes. I would just, again, reiterate, thank everybody for their input. Loud
and clear here. We'll work on number 37 there. I can assure you we're working on that behind the
scenes anyway. But I think there are some things we can do in terms of that. And I don't know who
on the phone remembers that "Don't be a Jimmy" campaign. Michael Ford makes a great point.
We rolled the code of conduct out with a very humorous approach, "Don't be a Jimmy," when we
did that.
But rest assured, as these changes take place, we do thoroughly train the supervisors, and our
transit security officers, and our transit police officers on the code. And we'll make sure that that
gets communicated and everyone gets really trained on the changes that we've made as well. So
thank you for everyone's time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I would like to ask Ms. McManus if she has any
comments. How about Mr. McKay. John, do you have any comments?
JOHN MCKAY: I do not, chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Let me just say a couple of things. This, again, has been just
such an amazing experience for me. A couple of things is that, it's opened up my eyes to how we
get so involved in our work that we forget that we have our own jargon, and we make assumptions
that people understand what our intent is. So this has been great in terms of really taking a deep
dive. I absolutely agree with the idea of keeping it simple.
And know I have to tell you, when you talk to the average person, number 1, they don't know what
the code of conduct is, number two, they've never seen it, and, number three, they wouldn't know
where to go get it. So I do think that we need to implement simplicity and do signage everywhere- on our buses, on our trains, in all of our facilities-- so people can start seeing it and adapting to
what those are. And so I agree with what everybody said about signage and making it simple.
I would like to address the issue about taking this out to communities to take a look at. And that is
within the RTD process. And under the board of directors, each board member has received this
and can go take it out into their communities to get feedback, input, suggested changes, before we
take this document to the board for an official vote. I would also say that to this committee, that if
there's anybody else you'd like to have take a look at this, please do that.
This is a very living and fluid document at this point. And remember that it was written originally
in 2016. The majority of transit agencies across the country have a code of conduct. But this is our
code of conduct, and it belongs to this community. And I would just encourage you all to take this,
and I know how much work we've put into this, but I would ask you, if you want to, if it would
make you feel better to go out and take it into the community, please feel free to do that.
And then, if I could ask Mr. McKay the next steps in terms of timing, so people know how long
they have to be able to do that and get it back to us, I'd appreciate that.
JOHN MCKAY: So I'll have to talk Barbara about this, but we are interested if there will be a civil
rights meeting some time in July during the meetings. So I think the operations and plans will

probably have to get any changes in any final documents the week before that, or the Wednesday
before that in order to be able to publish it Thursday before that meeting cycle. So basically in a
couple of weeks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. John, you were really hard to hear. I'm sorry you must be
having-- I know technology's been really a problem over this last week. But if I-- July civil rights
meeting, correct? Or-JOHN MCKAY: That is correct. Can you hear me better?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, much better. OK. Can you repeat that.
JOHN MCKAY: OK. Yeah. So there is no scheduled civil rights meeting yet. I think we'll need to
talk offline with Director Lewis about that and civil rights staff. But we looking to schedule one
for the July meeting cycles. So that would have to fall same time as the operations and finance
meetings. So we would need any documents the week before that, the Wednesday, so that we can
publish on Thursday and distribute to the board by that point. So we have a couple of weeks still.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So what was that deadline date be?
JOHN MCKAY: Looking at my calendar. So we would need it by probably the 2nd of July,
because-- I'm sorry. I'm looking at the wrong-- the 1st of July rather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I would comfortable with this coming through the committee that it came
through and not having the special civil rights meeting for this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
JOHN MCKAY: Director, we may need to have a civil rights meeting just to do a couple of other
things. So that would be-- it's a natural course of action. So if you're OK with that, we'll talk about
that with you later.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK thank you. So that concludes everybody's comments. I want
to just say thank you again. Our next meeting date is Wednesday, July 1, if we need it. So we'll be
in touch with all of you before then.
So I just would like to again say thank you for everything you are doing, and I look forward to our
continued partnership. Thank you. Have a good day, everybody, and stay safe.
KATE BARTON: : Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you so much.

KATE WILLIAMS: Bye, everybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

