Communications _ Government Relations
Committee - 4-6-2021
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, the Communications and Government Relations Committee will now come
to order. We're convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time April 6th. I'm Lynn Guissinger, chairing
the Communications and Government Relations Committee. I respectfully ask everyone to please mute
yourself until it's time for you to speak or questions come to you.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that, under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interests of public health and safety. For
the immediate future, the official meetings of the board will be held via Zoom, and will be audio and video
record. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon
as practicable on the board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com, scroll to the bottom of the page for
the link to the Board of Director page, and you should be able to find that information.
Directors and members of the staff, for the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's
proceedings, I ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before proceeding.
Speaking out of turn adds to the confusion. So directors and staff, if there's anyone participating by
phone, you can also raise your virtual hand to indicate that you'd like to speak by pressing star 9. To
toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6. Note that we do not take public comment during a
committee meeting. The next board meeting is April 20th at 5:30, and we do take public comment then if
you'd like to share with the board.
Nikki, do we have everyone here, or do you want to run through the roll?
NICOLE CAREY: I'm not seeing Director Broom. And I know Director Williams is absent.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Broom, are you here? All right, we'll look for you again in the near
future.
At RTD, safety is our core value, so we always start with a safety moment. I am going to branch a little
from my script here, but to get the same point across, get a vaccine. The vaccines are very effective and
very safe, is all of the evidence that we have at this point. The best thing you can do to help us get out of
this pandemic is to get a vaccine. That said, face masks and physical distancing are also still
recommended, and highly recommended by CDC and others.
Getting the vaccine doesn't automatically mean that we're safe. There are other variants. We need to get
50% to 80% of the population vaccinated before we hit herd immunity and really can provide some safety
against the pandemic and other variants. But the CDC does say that fully vaccinated people can gather in
small groups. And I think more recently, they said it's OK to travel with masks and social distancing.
Please continue to wear your masks and stay six feet apart when you're on our buses, and please get the
vaccine. All right.
We have no recommended actions tonight. We have several discussion items. And I am happy to
introduce the former mayor of Boulder, Matt Appelbaum, who was a big help to me when I decided to run

for the RTD Board. He's now on our Citizens Advisory Committee, the CAC. And he's going to give us an
update tonight. Matt?
MATT APPELBAUM: Thank you, Lynn, and thanks for giving us the chance to give you an update of the
CAC. I'm a new co-chair. I've been on the CAC for a little over a year and a half. My colleague, co-chair
Joanna Morsicato, she spoke with you last in December, and will be sharing duties at least for the next
year or so with this group.
Just one thing first. And that is to thank you for appointing such a great group of people. It really is. And
there's a bunch of new people on the CAC, but it really is a great group. If you ever attend any of the
meetings, listen in, which I'd encourage you to do, you'll see that it's a group of really thoughtful, smart,
diverse folks who are very engaged with all of RTD's business. And they're not shy about weighing in with
their thoughts and opinions, which is exactly what we want. And so we have really excellent meetings. Of
course, our meetings are virtual, just like yours, which works reasonably well, but we are all, I think,
chomping at the bit to get together in person, and especially meet the new folks. And we're going to try
something at our next meeting-- I'll talk about that at the end-- to maybe get us to meet each other a little
bit better.
Anyway, all I wanted to do was give you a quick update on what we've been talking about the last quarter
and some things we're interested in. And so here it goes. We had an update on the safety and security,
which was a follow-up to some work last year on the code of conduct, and also, of course, update on
challenges due to COVID, and what RTD is doing about that. And I think everybody agrees you're doing
an excellent job. We got an update from the Communications Department on their initiatives.
We met with folks from Dr. Cog, and had a really good, thorough discussion of their 2050 Metro Vision
Regional Transportation Plan, which of course is going to drive a lot of what goes on in our region, not
just with RTD, but all of the interconnected transportation mechanisms. We had a work session about the
new service change engagement, where we were briefed on the engagement plan for upcoming service
changes and we provided a bunch of input and feedback.
We met with Michael Davies, who's your new Government Relations officer. And that was an interesting
conversation, too, about what he's doing. We had some suggestions about how to work with the various
communities that are in the RTD district, and also offered our support in any way that we could for him as
he works with those communities, and also works with the state legislature.
And then, and I think maybe most importantly, we had another work session with the Reimagine RTD
group. We had done that last year, and of course, Reimagine, for good reason, was kind of put on the
back burner for a while. We are very happy that it is back. Very strongly support the restarting of
Reimagine RTD, and would like to continue to be involved in that.
And I guess that's the next thing, in some ways the important thing. When I joined the CAC, whatever, a
year and a half ago, the group was, I think, trying to redefine itself. And the RTD Board was really hopeful
and positive about the role of the CAC. The CAC is still, I guess, in a way, puzzling over how it can best
help the board and help RTD. We've had lots of great meetings, lots of information updates. We've
provided, I think, a lot of good input to the RTD staff and consultants on the various issues I just
mentioned. But the CAC very much wants to be more than just the committee that kind of digests
information.
We really do see ourselves as an advisory committee-- advisory to you, the board. And so we're still
working on puzzling over what our role should be, what the board's expectation is from the CDC, how to

best provide you with recommendations, advice, ideas, thoughts, and so on, how we can help the board
be more successful and equitable and inclusive, how best to report to you, especially if we have some
kind of more thorough recommendations. This is not the time for that, but I just wanted to tell you that
that's some of the things we're working on, and we'd like to discuss that some more with you in the future.
Other than that, our next meeting, later this month, we're going to split into breakout rooms. We don't
have a specific topic. We thought it'd be really important for us to get to know each other better and to
have a chance to talk to each other a little more thoroughly about some of these issues. So we're going to
have smaller groups. We encourage you to join us at that meeting, or any meeting, if you can, even if it's
just for a little while, so you can get to know us better and we can get to know you better. And again,
thanks for letting us check in. And we look forward to doing so again, as well as really better
understanding how we can truly be a Citizens Advisory Committee to the RTD Board. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Matt. Do we have questions or comments? Any feedback for
Matt?
I'll just say that I think that question has come up at the board level at various times in the past, too, and
it's one, I think, that many of us would like to see some thought put to, is how we engage with the CAC,
and get your feedback more directly and some of those things. So maybe we can raise that issue again
as we move forward with a lot of our planning processes. I see Doug Tisdale and then Bobby Dishell.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I believe Director Lewis also has her hand
raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ah.
DOUG TISDALE: I want to express appreciation and applause to the CAC and to Mayor Appelbaum for
his participation. And one thought that I have is, yes, we want the CAC, and I want-- I'll speak for myself-I want the CAC engaged on every discussion that we have. I want to see them present at all of the
committee meetings and at the board meetings, and to feel free to express themselves at the board
meetings, and if they see items on the committee meetings that are of importance, to express a
willingness and a desire to be on the agenda to weigh in on that, to give us the benefit of your thoughts
and your experience. It is an advisory committee, and you can't very well advise if you don't speak. So we
welcome that-- I welcome that opportunity, and I would appreciate your doing so. And again, I thank you
for your service. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mayor Appelbaum, for the presentation. I think,
for me, something that would be helpful to know is a preference of the committee for us to come to you or
for you to come to us. I'm a big believer in meeting people where they are. And to the extent people are
more comfortable with having a set of directors or us coming to your monthly meetings, or if it's better for
us not to be at your monthly meetings and have sort of a separate meeting with the chair, whatever that
might be, while I echo Director Tisdale's need and desire to have you all present here and advising, I
know that that's not always the most comfortable for everyone. And I want to offer myself, at least, and I'm
sure others, as well, to maybe other ways that we can get that feedback done and to hear from you all of
what's best for you.
MATT APPELBAUM: If you're waiting for me to make a comment on that, thank you. I'm actually taking
some notes. I'm going to bring this back to the CAC because I think, as a group, we need to-- that's a
great question, what is the best way. Yes, we can obviously attend and learn from RTD meetings. It's

great to have a board meeting or to attend our meetings, just to get to know us and see what we're up to,
and also so we can ask questions. But in terms of what's the best way to actually get information back
and forth, that is something we will discuss at our next meeting.
And I'll also just say, look, we don't take on every issue the RTD board engages in. Of course we don't.
That's not our role. There's a subset of issues that I think are appropriate for the CAC. Reimagine is one
of them, right? A big, long-term investigation. But we're not going to weigh in on everything, nor should
we, nor should you expect us to. So I think that's another thing we need to talk about, is, with you and the
staff, how do we select the items that are best served by coming to the CAC, having us learn about them,
because we need to learn about them, too, and then kind of weighing in with recommendations. So
thanks very much. That's very helpful.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. First, I would like to thank Mayor Appelbaum for coming to
the board directly. I think that's been one of the asks of the board, is to hear directly from the CAC, and
not to simply read a report from the CAC about the things that you all have going on. So thank you for
your time this evening.
One of the things that comes to mind for me-- and this might be captured in your notes, as well-- is we
talk about the CAC in an advisory capacity, and it's of my own opinion that I think we might underutilize
the CEC. I mean, you all are incredibly talented and experienced. And so I'm curious as to what it might
look like for us to, as a board, bring you in in an advisory capacity, because I don't know, as an individual
board member, if I've had the opportunity to sit down and have a discussion and a conversation with you
all about a topic that we might be grappling with as a board. So that's one piece.
And then second, along the same lines, is we often have discussions about-- or put committees together,
specifically the CAC, and we don't necessarily have a mechanism in which we can communicate or let
you all know that we are actually using the input that you provide to us to make better decisions or
different decisions, or to use that information to inform our decision-making. And so for me, this is an
opportunity for us to-- and it's something that's been important for me, Mayor-- to co-govern. And this is
an opportunity for us to do just that. And so I'm incredibly interested in this discussion and this topic, and
how we might be able to expand the role of the CEC to truly be able to use each one of you and your
talents and your expertise to help us to make better decisions.
MATT APPELBAUM: Well, thank you for that. The CAC will very much appreciate those comments, I
guarantee you. It is, again, you've chosen great people. There is an amazing amount of transportation
and transit expertise on the CAC right now. And it's not a political board. People are very open to all sorts
of advice and conversation and points of view. And I can guarantee you we'd be thrilled to provide more
input and work more closely with the RTD Board.
One thing we have talked about-- it's slightly off-topic, I suppose, but it's related-- is we would like to meet
with each of you. Obviously, that's a lot easier in a normal world, when you can actually sit down. I mean,
Zoom meetings are great. We all know, we've all been on too many of them. But nothing quite compares
with meeting somebody in person and getting to know them. And that goes for our own CAC committee.
Again, I don't know some of the new members like I would like to because I've only seen them three or
four times in a little rectangle on a computer screen. And that is not a great way to really meet somebody,
and understand who they are and what their concerns are.

So one of the things we definitely will be doing, especially once we can meet in person, is trying to meet
with each of you, because that will give us a lot more insight into what you expect from the CAC, what
you'd like us to work on, what you'd like to see us do. And kind of vice versa, you'll learn from us what
we're up to. So again, I'll bring all of this back to the CAC. It's perfect timing because we'll have our
meeting in a couple of weeks in smaller groups, where we can actually have a more thorough
conversation with each other.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you for that. And I will close with an invitation to you and the other
members of the CAC to reach out to me directly if there are ever topics that might come up that you
believe your expertise or your experience might hold some value or some weight for us board members. I
am often asking my constituents for feedback because I don't know everything there is to know as it
pertains to transit. And so I have a deep appreciation for group thought and collective decision-making.
And so if there's ever a time that you all are like, hm, I wonder if the board knows this, feel free to reach
out to me. I'd really appreciate it.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thank you. Thank you very much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Matt. This was great. It's a good conversation, and let's continue
it. Perhaps we could ask the Board Office to send us the information on their next meeting, in case people
can join that. So thanks for joining us.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thanks very much for inviting us. Appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Uh-huh. Our next discussion item is the survey of the LiVE program. Very
interesting. Jeff Tranguch, who is our survey master, is going to carry this one. Go ahead, Jeff.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Madam Chair. And good evening, everyone, and thank you for giving me the
opportunity to present this information. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen right now. For those of
you following along on the phone, in the board packet, this is the presentation that begins on page 37.
All right, everybody can see my screen?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
JEFF TRANGUCH: OK. So this is, essentially, the Cliff Notes of the survey. We got a lot of good
information from that. I want to encourage the board to read the full report. I'll only touch the surface of
some of the information that we found. And should you come across anything that you find interesting or
you'd like us to elaborate on, Market Research is more than happy to make itself available to answer any
questions once you do get a chance to read the full report.
So a little bit about the background. The core research questions that we tried to answer really focused
on understanding the experience for our customers when they're applying to the program, and how it can
improve. This was the first survey that we have done with our LiVE customers. It's been around for, I
guess, a little over a year and a half. So we didn't have any information. We thought it'd be a good
opportunity for us to find out how we're doing, get a temperature check, and get recommendations from
our customers to find out how we can improve. So based off the five questions that you see here, we'll go
into a little bit more detail and share some of the information in depth in some charts and graphs.
Regarding the methodology, we conducted the survey last year in October, kept it over for a little less
than a month. And we did it two different ways. And we did this to basically give our customers an
opportunity to answer the survey any way they would like to. So we first reached out to our customers

through email, and about 80% of our LiVE customers have access, or at least they report an email
address on file with us.
We also use standard mail. We have their information from the time they applied, so we took advantage
of having that information and sending out through mail. So everybody that had a mailing address got an
invite, and everybody that had an email address got an invite as well. All survey documents, including the
actual survey itself, the invite, emails were both available in English and Spanish to accommodate limitedEnglish audiences.
And we invited about 6,579 customers in total, and basically, all of these customers had submitted an
application within the previous 12 months and they had been approved. Now, not everyone got their LiVE
identification card. Mainly, so most of those were just the picture that they submitted was not sufficient, so
we had to reach out to those. But the majority, as you see there, 89%, already had their card in their
hands.
So we received 930 responses initially. We gave everybody a unique ID so that we could track them, so
we didn't have to ask questions about where they live or things like that. So after removing duplicate IDs,
we ended up with 886 responses, and that's about a 3% margin of error, meaning that any given
percentage, we assume that the error of plus or minus 3%.
So let's talk a little bit more about what we found out in depth. So how did our customers find out LiVE
existed? So we have a chart here displaying that actually, our government agencies and our nonprofits
are serving as a huge means of spreading awareness for this program.
You see about 51% of our customers that took the survey said that that is how they initially found out that
the program existed. Next, we have word of mouth from a friend or family member and in the RTD
website, but you see a huge difference there between the percentage of folks who said that they heard
about us through a government agency or a nonprofit organization.
How did they apply for LiVE? Most did it on their own, about three in four. Those that had an agency or
nonprofit organization complete their application on their behalf, about 23%. We did include a question
there to get at who that agency was or who that nonprofit was. We just simply asked an open-ended
question and coded the responses accordingly, and we found out that Denver Human Services was the
number one agency that assisted them with their application.
Let's talk a little bit about their attitudes toward the application process. Again, this was a huge part of the
survey, one of the main reasons why we wanted it conducted. The top two box scores that you see here
are essentially taking the numbers of 4 and 5s. We asked each question on a 1 to 5 scale, 1 being the
negative, 5 being the positive, and convention in market research is to take the top two responses and
basically lump them together.
So what you're looking at here are the people that are, quote unquote, "happy." If this were a report card,
we're probably a mid-B to low B student. Not bad by any means, but not to say that there isn't room for
improvement. We have 84% of our customers saying that they thought the difficulty of the application
process was a 4 of 5, and 5 is very easy, so it was pleasing to see that.
And then overall satisfaction with the LiVE process, you see it's about 83%. So again, not perfect, but
definitely positive scores for that. Did our customers experience problems throughout the application
process? About 14% did. 85% saying that they did not, so that was pleasing to see.
Of that 14% that said they had a difficulty or experienced some issue, it was around their proof of
eligibility ID card, whether that was uploading the photo or their photo did not meet the requirements that

we set forth. So how can we improve the application process? Well, kind of doing an exploratory
approach, we just simply asked an open-ended question. What can we do to improve the process?
And we got a number of responses from that. As you saw, most people were satisfied, but they still had
recommendations. Once we coded those responses into overarching themes based on what they wrote,
we found that most of the themes revolved around improving communication, that is, around the
application requirements, what do I need, what types of documents do I need, things like that, their
application status.
So after I submit an application, what happens next? or where is it? Is it here, or is it there? When can I
expect a response? Things like that. And then lastly, just the general details of the program. How much is
the discount? How long does the proof of eligibility ID card last? Things like that. And lastly, one other
thing that came up was that customers said they had some difficulty locating the application either on our
website to take them to PEAK or actually on the PEAK website itself.
So again, not everybody's saying this, but these are the major themes, so we report them here just to kind
of give a glimpse of what our customers thought as the recommendation. What about those that never
used RTD before LiVE? So we just asked a simple question. Prior to enrolling in LiVE, did you ever ride
RTD services, even if it was only one time?
And 93% of respondents said that they have used our services. 7% said they did not, and then 1%, not
sure. Now, it's difficult to say whether or not that 7% that said they didn't use our services started using
our services because of LiVE. We cannot make that connection. It may be that they're new to the area, or
it may be because of LiVE. We don't know that for sure, so I just want to get that kind of out there.
With regard to the current selection of ticket products currently available through LiVE, we just asked a
simple question, how satisfied are you, again using a scale from 1 to 5 where 1 is negative and 5 is
positive. Top two box scores tell us about three in four customers are, quote unquote, "satisfied." That is a
4 or 5 with the current products that are available through LiVE.
So we kind of gave our customers an opportunity to tell us, OK, all the products that you can have
available with RTD, which one do you think you would most likely use if it was available through LiVE?
And we also included those that are currently available, just to kind of give customers a sense of, OK, if
you could choose anything you want, what would that be?
And the chart on the left that you're seeing, it's just everyone in general. The chart on the right are the
customers that said that they were dissatisfied with the current selection. That is a 1, 2 or 3. And what
you'll see here is the monthly pass being number one, but once you look at monthly pass on paper,
monthly pass on the little Tickets app, if you add up all those, we have 32% of our customers that are
dissatisfied with the current selection saying that they would want to see a monthly pass followed by the
day pass at 28%.
How can we improve LiVE in General? Again, we included an open-ended question because we really
don't know how to improve, so this was exploratory nature. We're not looking to assign any percentages.
We're really just giving customers the opportunity to tell us really what we can do to improve the LIVE
program. And there were three themes that came out after reading those responses, folks saying they
want us to offer additional ticket or payment options, some saying monthly pass and some saying other
things.
But just in general, they want more additional payment options or ticket options. Then you have that other
side of the conversation saying we want cheaper tickets or we want greater discounts. And then finally,

what we think is kind of surprising is the confusion surrounding the details of the program. So it was clear,
and I encourage you all again to read the full report because we do provide the verbatim responses, at
least a sample of them, to demonstrate these things.
You'll see that for the last theme, their confusion surrounding details of the program, there is clearly
customers-- it's hard to say how many. I doubt it's a lot, but thinking that their proof of eligibility ID card is
their actual ticket so that they are thinking they do not have to purchase a ticket. So that was kind of really
eye-opening for us.
Others just kind of confused as to what tickets are available to themselves, just general confusion
surrounding the program. So again, I encourage everyone to read the full report because you'll be able to
see the verbatim responses to clarify what they actually mean when we say this thing.
We'll close out with the respondent characteristics, and what we did here is we compared the LiVE
customers to our typical customers on any given weekday. So we used information from our latest
customer satisfaction survey from 2019. These are the most readily available data that we have. And you
can just look at those data as what our customer base looks like on any given weekday.
And this is just to kind of give you a picture, because you'll notice there are some differences. So we
asked the question, do you have a disability that prevents you from driving a car. Within the LiVE survey,
we have about 21% of our customers saying yes, and from our customer satisfaction survey, again, the
customers that we think are using our services on a given weekday, about 8%, so 2 and 1/2 times higher
than our typical customer base there.
Availability of a vehicle at home, this is kind of trying to get the sense of transit dependence, although
there are some people who elect not to have a car, so it's an absolutely imperfect way of measuring that.
But what we're trying to get at here is do people have a car available at home as an option to take instead
of RTD.
And there's really no difference between our LiVE customer and our typical everyday customer. You see
about 30% of those saying that they have at least one vehicle at their household available for use by
members of their household. The number in the household, striking difference. Here you see about 42%
of our LiVE customers saying that it's just them in their household-- they live alone-- compared to 25%
from our customer satisfaction survey.
You see most customers in that segment say that they live with someone else, that 37%. And race and
ethnicity, we see that 62% of our customers on any given day report being Caucasian, white or not of
Hispanic origin. That's 47% among our LiVE customers. 14% in customer satisfaction survey for those
identifying as African-American or Black versus 20% in LiVE.
And there's some other differences there too, but again, some differences, and we're just trying to paint a
picture of is the LiVE customer different than our everyday customer. And finally, county of residents,
within both surveys, we have Denver being the highest in terms of the majority of respondents, LiVE
customers making up the greater majority and therefore almost 50% of the sample from the survey.
And then there are some other differences there, but again, Denver being the most populous within both
surveys. I'll stop there and stop sharing my screen. I'm happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much, Jeff. I see our Chair Rivera-Malpiede's hand up first.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Jeff, thank you for this report. I did read it and I looked at it pretty closely. A
couple of things that came to mind is, now that you have this survey and all this data, what is the plan?

And in particular, I was concerned about the people who were confused that once they get their card, that
they think that that is their ticket.
And so what are the plans in place to make sure that folks know all of those components? And the last
thing is, when people's photos are not taken, what is the number one reason why they're not accepted?
Those are my three questions. Thank you.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you for that. I just want to make sure. I got two. What is the plan after the
survey? I can speak to very high level. I invite any of my colleagues that would have greater knowledge of
this. So if I misspeak, please stop, but with regards to the plan and how we're going to educate our
customers on LiVE, I know there are steps being taken to provide emails and letters, at the time to
provide status updates.
I know that we're also working on improving communication around the requirements and things like that.
As far as the actual, what is the number one reason for the photo not being accepted, I wouldn't have any
knowledge of that other than just saying that it came out in the survey. But I don't know if it's people
wearing hats or things like that. I don't know if there's anybody on the call that would have any other
working knowledge of that, but I see Pauletta has got her hand up.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, if I may, Madam Chair. A couple of things as we talk about where we're going.
The whole intention of the survey is to assess people's perceptions and attitudes relative to the program,
so upon doing the analysis, it's helped us to make informed decisions about how to leverage the program
and enhance it.
And in working with the acting CFO and members of his team and having conversations, one thing that I
was able to glean as we went through this process, working with our partner agencies relative to
photographs, oftentimes, it was just not clear, and there's a myriad of different elements. So in reference
to us going forward, leveraging the individuals at these entities in which we're partnering with to take
pictures, providing those parameters, because it gives us an opportunity to enhance as we go forward.
So relative to us doubling back, ensuring that we have things in place to make the program more
accepting and be able to work with the pay points which we discern, I believe, will chart us on a path
going forward. So this was the first step to enable us to understand what those pain points were so we
can make informed decisions. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Did you have something to add, Ms. Tonilas?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, all I would say as related to the photos and what the problems were with
photos and why they had to deny them, it was things like people who were wearing hats-- Jeff mentioned
that-- or the clarity of the picture or the standards where you could actually see the person and identify
that person. So it was really more quality-oriented and not meeting the specs of what the program
requires.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm not sure, Chair, did Jeff answer your questions?
ANGIE RIVERA MALPIEDE: Pretty much. I mean, I think that this is a fluid document that we're working
on together, and I'm always concerned about language barriers and assumptions that people know how
to utilize social media and platforms that we're using so that it doesn't exclude anybody. But I looked at all
the nonprofits working on this, and I think that that's great. But I think communication is still the number
one issue of concern for me. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Chair. I have a couple of questions, but I will only ask one of them, let
Director Broom take a couple of bites at the apple and come back, if I may. The first is, do we do market
research on the population that is not enrolled, which is to say that, 8,000 is amazing and it's a lot of
people, But if we assume about 10% of people are living at or below the poverty line on average, there's
about 3 million people in our service area, that means there's about 300,000 people who could be in our
program, if I did that math correctly.
JEFF TRANGUCH: That's a great question. We could do. We haven't done anything relative to
specifically focusing on asking them why they're not a part of the program. Is that kind of what you're
looking at?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. I also want to-- I know that running a program is no small undertaking, but I'm
looking for opportunities to expand to people who might not, and trying to understand, if there's 8,000
enrolled and a couple 100,000 not enrolled, why are the not enrolled not enrolled.
JEFF TRANGUCH: So I would say that a large majority of our customers that are low income also qualify
for our discounts like persons with disabilities or seniors. So I don't know the numbers directly off the top
of my head, but there is some portion of the low income crowd that are able to get a better discount with
the 50%, as being, as I mentioned, a person with disabilities or somebody who is a senior.
So there is that, but any knowledge of why those folks who are low income don't take up the product or
enroll, we do not have any of that information right now.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. And I noticed on our demographic information that biracial or multiracial was not
an option. Is other just used as a placeholder, or is biracial or multiracial an option for folks?
JEFF TRANGUCH: Other was used as a catch-all, and I'll admit that we are going to change that
question in the future. We'd like to match what the census does, so the census breaks down ethnicity as a
separate question and then race as a separate question. So the census basically asks a qualifier, do you
identify someone as being Hispanic or Latino origin, and then the follow-up is everything else underneath
that, like race.
So we are going to do that. We kind of have it muddled together now, so it's not really the best way to
measure it. So I would say in the future, we are absolutely going to change that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, and then my last question-- I apologize, Director Broom-- I noticed that an
annual pass similar to the EcoPass or the EcoPass and the college pass that other populations are
afforded was not looked at. It was not offered as an option for people to choose from for something they'd
like. Was there any reasoning behind that?
JEFF TRANGUCH: I'm sorry you were breaking up a little bit. Could you repeat it? I heard pass
programs, but that was it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Is there a reason that an annual pass was not included as something that
people might want?
JEFF TRANGUCH: When you say annual pass, you're referring to something like a Business EcoPass or
anything like that?
BOBBY DISHELL: Correct.
JEFF TRANGUCH: I don't know if I have a good answer for you other than we simply looked at tickets
that we could introduce to anyone through the program that currently weren't available. I mean, as the
Business EcoPass, I don't want to speak for the folks on the ticketing side. We agreed on that list, that
was the ones that they were most interested in getting information on.

BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. All right, that's all I have. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. Thank you
also to the LiVE team who does this day in and day out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Broom. I think you're muted, Bob.
BOB BROOM: I think I'm unmuted now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You are unmuted now. We can hear you. Go ahead.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you. From a racial standpoint, does our ridership mirror the general population,
or do we serve certain segments in more preponderance?
JEFF TRANGUCH: It's a difficult question to answer because as I mentioned, the way that we ask it is
separate from what the census asks. So the census asks the qualifier to get whether or not the
respondent identifies as being Hispanic, and then they ask race after that. Ours is kind of muddled into
one, so for us to do a direct comparison to the census, which we know we have data from that-- we can
look at the American Community Survey which breaks it out. We approximate our district.
We wouldn't be able to do a one-to-one comparison. I believe the latest estimates that we gathered-- I
believe it was last year-- something like 82% of residents within the Denver metro area-- that's looking at
the Denver-Aurora-Lakewood metropolitan area and the Boulder metropolitan area-- approximately, it's
about 82% of our residents identify as being not of Hispanic origin. But we wouldn't be able to make a
direct comparison because of the way we ask the question, which is why we're going to change it in the
future.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Directior Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Jeff, if you could remind me, originally when we set out with
the LiVE program, what were the goals in terms of the number of folks that we wanted to get approved
into the program?
JEFF TRANGUCH: I wouldn't know the specific number. I believe we had anticipated about a 5% take-up
rate in the first year, but I could be wrong. I don't know the approximate number.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, I would be curious of that to Director Dishell's inquiry about the number of folks
who are participating currently and approved into the program. I also recall from earlier conversations that
there was going to be a position that was hired specifically for the LiVE program to get folks enrolled, and
I know the position was put on hold due to COVID.
And I was curious if there had been any updates in that regard, specifically as their comments in this
document around our unhoused folks, and that was a gap that we were hoping to be able to address.
JEFF TRANGUCH: I don't have any knowledge of any update on that if anybody-DEBRA JOHNSON: I will take that question. Thank you, Mr. Tranguch. Debra Johnson, General Manager
and CEO. Recognizing that there were decisions made relative to shoring up the budget for fiscal year
2021, as we assess our path forward in recognizing the comments I provide to the Chair of the Board
relative to her inquiries, this is helping us to inform decisions as we assess the program and go forward.
So to your question, Director Lewis, that is something that I can look at and take under advisement as we
make informed decisions about how we staff accordingly to meet our core business needs. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Another question for you, Jeff, regarding the non-profits specifically. I
remember distinctively that the nonprofits had two main concerns that they had hoped to be addressed.
The first one was the administrative burden to the nonprofits to get their clients registered in the program.

And so I was curious if that had come up at all. Or let me step back. I'm curious if you are inquired with
the nonprofits how they might have been experienced in the program.
JEFF TRANGUCH: For purposes of this survey, we did not engage the nonprofits. That's certainly an
area we could explore in the future, but we don't have any information from the LiVE survey itself that
would give us any direction onto your question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. I would be interested in it as it had come up quite a bit, that administrative
burden piece. What also came up when we were having the discussions with the nonprofits was around
nonprofits that might work with undocumented clients, specifically around the photos. I mean, it sounds
like there's been some movement in that regard, but I'm just curious if that's an ongoing concern and if
that might be an unknown barrier for some of the folks who might want entry into the program but might
have some concerns around their status here in the US.
JEFF TRANGUCH: We don't have any information. I don't recall any opinions about folks saying anything
along those lines. This survey was confidential. We didn't ask for any personal information, but we did
have that information connected to the unique ID that was at the top of everyone's survey. But we don't
have anything from the survey.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, and then I'll conclude with, on packet page 21, there's a number of comments
here under, offer cheaper tickets, greater discounts. And I do remember the discussion being, while I
wasn't on the Board, there being a lot of discussion around the 185% of the federal poverty line and 200%
of the federal poverty line. And I wonder if there's going to be an opportunity to revisit that as we see that
even with these significant discounts, that folks are still struggling with this fare.
JEFF TRANGUCH: I'm sorry, Director Lewis. Is that question directed toward me?
SHONTEL LEWIS: If you have the ability to answer it, but if not, I'm happy to hear from someone else.
JEFF TRANGUCH: I mean, what I would say quickly is we don't know the number of customers that
would apply to, so that information is qualitative. It gives us the hint of a theme. So we reported it because
it was a chunk of respondents, but I wouldn't say we have any information that would say 80% of our
customers said this. It's not intended to do that. So at best, it's directional, so we can't use it for anything
else other than qualitative information at this time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and thank you, Jeff. I guess I'm wondering-- it seems like I don't recall
exactly the number, but there were something over 1,000 people who had started the application and
hadn't finished it, many of whom had not uploaded a photo. I don't know if there's any way to talk to those
people, if we have email addresses or anything to see what the problem is. Is there something like that?
JEFF TRANGUCH: So we were able to reach some of them. I don't know the exact number off the top of
my head. We invited about 11% who had not received their LiVE proof of eligibility ID card at the time. I
could go back and match that and see if we did get responses from those folks. I will say it is a population
that is difficult to reach at times.
So one of the things that came out of this-- and I've not seen this in my five years serving at RTD in a
market research capacity and even prior to that being a consultant-- we had over two dozen customers
respond to email messages, invites for the survey, and asked for, hey, my card expired, how do I get a
new one, which we then immediately forwarded the information to our market development team. It was
handled in a matter of hours.

So this actually served as a customer service tool, which was very pleasing to see. Again, we've not seen
that ever, but it kind of just helps us. I would hypothesize that that is a harder audience to reach. Why
they would respond to a survey invite for things like that was a little surprising, but if you'd like, we'd be
happy to go back and look at who we got responses from of that 11% that did not have their eligibility ID
card if it would be helpful.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I don't know. It's something we can think about and you can talk about
with staff. Just one more question. I'm guessing-- well, I guess it's a question. Did our applications go
down during the last year with COVID, and are they starting to pick back up? Or not sure if you would
know that.
JEFF TRANGUCH: I would not have that information, no.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, be worth looking at. Thanks. Thanks so much, Jeff. Good work. Appreciate
when you bring us these surveys.
JEFF TRANGUCH: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe next, we're doing the communications report. Ms. Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. What I will say is we have a team of
people who have been working on the LiVE program from the very beginning. Some of those people were
not able to be on the call today, but we can follow up and make sure that we're providing the Board with
the information that you've been asking about. So I just want to make sure and make that mention.
So in your packet is a PowerPoint presentation of various updates of what the Communications
Department has been pursuing over the last couple of months since the last committee meeting, so we
aren't going to go through that whole PowerPoint. What the Board report does is it highlights some of the
items that I feel are of particular interest to the Board at this point, and I'm just going to touch on those
and then open it up to any questions that you may have.
The People Who Move People campaign launched just about a month ago, and this is our effort at
highlighting our extraordinary employees, many of them frontline employees who have had quite a task
over the past year, but all employees, really, in their unique role and connections to our customers and
how they move people not only physically, but emotionally.
And that campaign has been well received thus far, and this is the storytelling of our employees. So that
is going to continue to go through the end of the year. Also, as you know, and as we reported back to you
at the March Operations Committee meeting when we presented the draft June service plan, we did an
enhanced approach to stakeholder engagement which we were able to get quite a bit of good feedback
from our stakeholder partners across the region by for the first time holding five geographic sector
meetings with stakeholders who engaged with us the most about service in their particular communities.
And so that was part of the engagement that informed the draft service plan process. And then, of course,
we did the public 0 last week, which we'll update you on next week. But we will be continuing that
stakeholder listening session process, and actually, for the September service change, we're going to be
holding those listening sessions at the end of April and early May.
So people will be getting those invitations soon. I think actually some of them may already be going out,
and we'd love to have the Board participate in those once again. And the ongoing listening that we're
going to be doing already is happening, because as we meet with different groups in their set meetings,
we're there to listen and we're there to hear about service adjustments, things that they would like to see
happen, but also about other things with RTD.

So we're using the listening session opportunity in many facets. Last Friday, you should have gotten an
email from me introducing the 2021 agency profile on Factbook. This is a combination what went on over
the last year, a very extraordinary year, but also taking a look at the year ahead. We had messages from
CEO and General Manager Johnson and also Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
And this is primarily a digital document. It's available on the RTD website, and it is a great tool and
resource. There's a lot of facts and figures also about the agency and how we move people, how we
serve them across the region. And so we invite people to take a look at the agency profile and factbook.
And then when we started our customer relationship management platform, Salesforce, the biggest part
of why we transitioned to Salesforce was to improve our customer connections. And so the first phase of
the sales force launch is complete, and that has gone quite well. That gives us a much better way to track
our communications with our customers, email, phone, website, social media and such.
And it also gives us an opportunity to better track and report and pull reports on what we're hearing from
our customers. And so one thing that we are starting tonight that we're going to continue from this point
forward is to give the Board a snapshot of what we're hearing from our customers in the customer
comments and complaints that we're hearing, and what those types of comments are that we're hearing
most frequently.
And so in the packet, you see a table that shows that over the first quarter of 2021, we had over 136,000
customer interactions. About 1,300 of those were complaints from customers that deserved more internal
research and follow-up if needed. So for instance, if there was a complaint about one of our employees,
that would get handled through one of our divisions or the appropriate division.
And then if there was some follow-up or some refresher training that needed to happen with that
employee, that's how we were able to track that and make sure we handle that in quick order. There also
were over 100 commendations for our staff, for bus and rail operators, transit police, and even our
customer care agents. And so we're tracking those commendations, and those are being sent to
employees right away. And so they're able to get those quite quickly.
The top five complaint types that we've heard from our customers over the first quarter, about 265 of
those were about face masks, largely people complaining that people were not wearing face masks while
writing our system. And in pulling those reports, the routes that we found were getting the most
complaints about people not wearing face coverings are the 15 and 15L, now, the 16 and the 0.
Those also are some of our most frequented routes right now, and so that, I think, aligns with why we're
getting the most complaints about some of the people who are not wearing face coverings. Over 200
people also were complaining about being passed at a stop, and that is largely because of our capacity
limits, and that our buses then passed them up and called in to dispatch so that we can get a
supplemental bus trip out there to that particular route.
180 complaints that we got for buses or trains that were late or early or no shows based on what the
schedule says. 167 that were basic discourtesy, people that were not pleased with an RTD staff member.
And then almost 100 where people said there's not enough service or routes and not happy that lines
were suspended. And so moving forward, we will continue to track these and report back to the Board
what we're hearing from our customers and those touch points.
And then just another couple of items I'd like to brief. We are completing the procurement process for our
new system advertising program. We are enhancing our approach to system advertising. Currently, we

have a vendor that does on-vehicle advertising as you know, and so we're expanding our advertising
program to also include digital customer information displays.
These customer information displays will help us enhance the customer experience by giving us the
ability to include information, real-time information, route information, if we have service disruptions. Or
even if there's activities or events that the agency wants to promote or publicize, this information will
digitally be available to people at these displays at major rail and bus stations.
And the advertising that is sold and also displays on those digital displays is what pays for the
infrastructure, so RTD doesn't put any money out in the deployment of the actual infrastructure of the
digital displays. And so that's going to be a great arrangement for us to not only enhance our customer
experience with better customer information but also, more revenue generation for the organization.
And so what we're planning to do is to bring a contract to the Board, likely in the June Board cycle where
we will ask the Board for approval of the selected contractor that will then move us forward in our
enhanced approach to system advertising. And then the last item I'd like to just brief for you is an exciting
anniversary, the fifth anniversary of the University of Colorado A Line.
It's actually remarkable that that's already upon us, but with our partners at Denver Transit Partners,
Denver Transit Operators, we will be marking that milestone on Tuesday, April 27. The Board will, of
course, be invited. We'll be doing a press event at Denver Union Station on that morning at 10:00 AM,
and then our Denver Transit partner and operator partners will be hosting you at a visit to the commuter
rail maintenance facility and be able to give you an opportunity to engage with the Denver Transit
Partners and operators boards. And so you'll be getting more details about that. So that hits the high
points, Madam Chair, and I'm happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. That's great. I see a question from Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Appreciate that, and thank you very much for your
report, Ms. Tonilas. It's an excellent report as always. Something struck me in packet page 71 where you
address the University of Colorado A Line fifth anniversary. We call it the University of Colorado A Line
because the University of Colorado paid us for that privilege 5 years ago pursuant to a five-year contract.
Upon the occasion of the fifth anniversary, do we have any understanding or hope that the University of
Colorado will continue its sponsorship of its naming right, or will this now simply turn into the A train
following this fifth anniversary event?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Director Tisdale, thank you for that question. It's a great question, and so we are
working with the University on that. You're right. That five-year contract is about up. The naming rights
program actually started when we were getting ready to open up the A line, and we saw that as an
opportunity to, again, give communities an opportunity to engage with those that live within them and put
their name on RTD's transit service, but also as a revenue generator for us.
We will be keeping the Board apprised of how that program moves forward. We have not had any other
serious developments in terms of companies that are interested. We have had a few that have expressed
interest of late, and so we will be giving the Board an update soon on that. But thank you for that
question, and we'll follow up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, you. Thanks for this information, Pauletta. I really appreciate it. Two things. One,
on the customer complaint or contact snapshot, that's useful, and I can imagine it's useful internally. Just

verifying that you provide that information as well to the staff members whose areas encompass those
areas of concern, is that true?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, so again, because this reporting and the monitoring is fairly new, and how
we're reporting this and able to pull information, it's a fantastic system that gives us that availability. What
I'm hearing from you is that you would like to know more about what's coming from your area, and so I
can definitely work with Will Adams. Will is actually on the call. He is our Senior Manager of Customer
Care, and he may be better to answer this than me, so-DEBRA JOHNSON: Actually, Ms. Tonilas, that's not what Director Cook was asking.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, that's correct. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I was wondering whether the
information is also used internally to the extent it suggests some change in operation or improve
communication or something like that? Are you able to? Is that part of your new system?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, absolutely, and sorry for that. That's the very intent of it, and so what the
customer care team does, and I mentioned that there were 1,300 customer complaints in all of the 136puls interactions that we had in the first quarter. So the very intent of that is that we loop back with the
division that is applicable to that particular person where there was a complaint, or if it's not even just an
individual, but maybe an agency complaint, so that we can follow up on that and make that aware to the
relevant people in the organization with the very purpose of continuous improvement.
And so given that we're now just starting to look at how we can best utilize this information, that will be a
great tool for us moving forward.
SHELLEY COOK: I figured that. I just wanted to verify. And the second thing is, I don't need it tonight, but
on page 74, you had a breakdown of the EcoPass outcome so far. Would you mind providing that with
percentages? I couldn't tell what the total number of EcoPasses that were out there to calculate, for
example, how many appear not to be renewing at this point and so forth. So if that's easy for you to get to
us, that'd be great.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, absolutely. We can definitely follow up. We have seen some better
movement with our EcoPass clients that are renewing. There's still quite a few we're doing outreach with
and trying to find ways that we can make it amenable for them to continue in the program, but we'll look at
getting that information.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks so much. Thank you, Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Doug, do you have another question or is your hand still up?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, my hand is still negligently up. It is now lowered.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. We will accept that. Great. We are in our last discussion item of our first
meeting here, the government relations report. We're doing it a little bit differently tonight. We have all our
lobbyists and public affairs teams on here to answer questions, but our report is coming from our new
Government Relations Officer, Michael Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair and members of the Board. My name's Michael Davies,
Government Relations Officer. I'm going to give a quick summary overview of the government relations
report in a packet. To start at the federal level, Congress has mostly been focused on passing the
American Rescue Plan. This was the third of the COVID relief funding packages that came out of
Congress.
This bill, American Rescue Plan, provided $30.5 billion to transit. $26 billion of that will go through the
formula program that was similar to CARES and CRRSAA. FTA has put out apportionments, and then

this last Friday held a webinar providing guidance to transit agencies nationwide to understand further
how agencies can draw down that funding.
During that webinar, they did express that the way that that funding is drawn down out of CRRSAA versus
the American Rescue Plan will be different. So FTA will be putting out new guidance for the American
Rescue Plan specifically, and it had to do with the language change on how you use that funding with
regards to payroll and operations and that being the focus for FTA.
Moving on at the federal level, I want to highlight that it appears that Congress is going to move toward
infrastructure as the next large package that will move in Congress. On March 31, President Biden did
introduce an outline of his infrastructure proposal. That proposal was $2.25 trillion total. Of that 2.25,
about $600 billion, $621 billion, is for more traditional infrastructure, surface transportation, airports, et
cetera.
And so we'll be engaging with our congressional delegation closely as that package hopefully moves its
way through Congress. Lastly, at the federal level, I just want to touch that we continue to make progress
on our credit risk premium legislative fix and have been working with our congressional delegations to
address that both on the authorizing and appropriations side of Congress, and have received positive
feedback from our congressional delegation of trying to move that goal forward and solving that issue for
us and getting our credit risk premium back from the previous RRIF loan that was paid.
Moving on to the state, as the Board knows, RTD worked closely with the Accountability Committee and
with our Transit Union on House Bill 1186. And of course, the Board took a support position on that. That
bill did pass on third reading today out of the House with a vote of 38 to 24 and three excused, and so
we'll of course, keep the Board up to date as that the bill moves its way through the General Assembly.
Also at the state level, I just want to highlight the conversation around the state transportation funding
proposal that was put out. There's no legislative language on this bill yet, and at this point, it's high-level
talking points that outlines exactly what the General Assembly is thinking there. That's a $3.9 billion
package, and that funding is then split into largely four different pots of funding that address different
issues.
On the transit side, you could assume that things like funding for multimodal or funding for things that help
air quality could be possibly available for transit funding, but we will of course keep the Board up to date,
and hopefully, when we see legislative language on that, provide a summary to the Board.
And then just lastly, at the state level, we are of course tracking all of the bills that are moving through the
General Assembly at this point. And inside your packet, we've provided a tracking chart on several bills
that we're paying close attention to. I'm not going to go through all those bills, but we just wanted to let
you all know that we will be providing an updated tracking chart weekly and sending that out to the Board
to keep you apprised of all the bills that we're paying attention to.
And then just lastly at the local level, two quick points. Again, with regards to the state funding plan, we
have been monitoring what municipalities have been saying largely, and what their advocacy has been on
this. In particular, the metro mayors have been very active and put out a specific advocacy plan. And so
we're monitoring what they're advocating for at the state level there.
And then just the last point on the local level, RTD worked with the communities up in the northern region
with regards to the N Line promotional fare pilot ending, and that ended on March 27. And so we worked
with them on how we're communicating that change to customers. And so with that, I'll end, and happy to

take any questions. And as you mentioned, our contract advocates are on the line and can add in any
details I missed or answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Michael. Any questions? I see Director Dishell, and then I see Director
Broom and Director Cook.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Michael, for a great presentation and thank you
to all of the rest of the government affairs folks who are on the line tonight. There's one governmental
agency or quasi-governmental agency that regulates us that I know this is not here, which is the PUC.
And I'm curious what sort of government affairs type work we're doing in terms of intervening or not
intervening as it relates to thinking about the future of transportation, making sure that electric bus
incentives or electric fleet incentives are included in [AUDIO OUT] plan, thinking about what is the future
of upgrading substations.
I know we have not made any sort of commitment or indication on electrification. It'd be great to sort of
keep tabs on that to make sure that whether it's electric or hydrogen, I don't think the natural gas and oil is
really the future in the long term. So making sure that we're sort of [AUDIO OUT that.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Certainly. I would say it's a great question. I'm not familiar, with the few months that
I've been here, interacting with the PUC, but we'll take your question as advice to look further into that.
BOBBY DISHELL: That works.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Is that it, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: That's it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Did I unmute?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're unmuted.
BOB BROOM: I have a question. We adopted a balanced budget, which means that we had revenues
from sales tax and so forth to cover our operating expenses, and that was before we knew we were going
to get a couple more large tranches of federal funding. That federal funding comes with strings.
You can only spend it on certain things, but obviously, if you can spend it on salaries and contracts with
other bus services, that means that the money that you had set aside from sales tax is going to be there
at the end of the year. Do we have any strategies on how those funds are going to be used going
forward?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Broom, if I may, I would like to have this question addressed by Doug
MacLeod, and before he speaks, I wanted to surprise you that we plan to bring forward next week at the
Finance Committee our specific strategy as relates to the funds that were referenced in Mr. Davies' report
relative to CRRSAA and the American Rescue Plan. So with that, I'll yield the floor to Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thak you, General Manager Johnson. This is Doug McLeod. Yes, so that is one of the
things that we were looking at. Obviously, we have a lot of moving pieces with the bringing back of the
employees at the beginning of the year. We also have some run board changes that we are
contemplating for June with the use of some of the CRRSAA funding.
You may recall that we had discussed having $180 million of the CRRSAA funding set aside for six run
boards and increases there. And we also have some other challenges that we will be speaking about
Tuesday night next week such as the forecasted fare revenue. Looks like it's materializing quite a bit
lower, so I guess I mentioned those pieces because we have a lot of uncertainty still.

We have a lot of moving pieces, and so we're really not confident that what we had budgeted is going to
materialize the way we had anticipated back in November just due to all these changes.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to follow up on some of the
advocacy efforts. For your information, the American Public Transportation Association's Transit Board
Member Committee had its Board talk live session today on advocacy and outreach and addressed a
number of the topics that have been mentioned here.
For those of you who were not able to make that session, it was recorded and it will be available from
APTA. And as soon as I have the link for that, I will make sure that the Board Office distributes it to all of
the Board Members. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, and if Patty Doersch is on the line, I had a quick question for her. On the
same day that the administration announced and released its infrastructure plan, Amtrak released a new
map that included new corridors including one along the Front Range here and fact sheet that
accompanied it.
Are we to read into that? Was that coordinated? It's what, I think $80 billion set aside for Amtrak. Does
that include or expected to include the new corridors? Do we have any information about that?
PATRICIA DOERSCH: We do not have specific information tying certain dollars to certain routes. You
know, my own personal thinking on this is that $80 billion for intercity passenger rail is an enormous
number. Right now, we provide $2 billion a year to Amtrak. This would be $10 billion a year in addition for
eight straight years. It's a huge number.
You know, it's a question of whether ridership demand could even fulfill that. I think if you did everything
Amtrak envisions for Northeast Corridor, that would be $30 or $40 billion. Leaves an enormous amount of
additional money. I think what Amtrak is saying with that map is, we know there was a huge number that
came out, $80 billion for intercity rail. That basically means Amtrak. Here's how we could envision
committing those funds.
I think it's more to justify the big number rather than to commit particular dollars to any single route. I
mean, I too was very pleased to see the Cheyenne to Pueblo route, but I don't think dollars are assigned
to it at this time.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. This may also be directed to Patty, and I know Michael said
that we are making progress on the credit risk premium. But we've heard that for several years now, and
I'm just wondering realistically where we are with the federal agency that would be responsible for that,
which is not, as I understand it, USDOT. Isn't it Treasury? Or is it budget? I don't know. What is the reality
of that?
PATRICIA DOERSCH: USDOT is the agency that's responsible. I think we're in a good spot with USDOT.
We made great progress last year through our delegation when DOT was able to give us a funding
number to cover the cost of returning the CRP to all loans in this third cohort.
You know, the difficulty last year, as you may recall, we've got the RRIF CRP fixed through the
appropriations bill last year in the House, through the authorizing bill last year in the House, passed by

the full House twice. The hang-up was on the Senate side. I now think that since both are Democraticcontrolled, I think we are in a better position. But again, I'm trying to get a repeat bill.
I want to be in the House Authorizing Bill. I want to be in the House THUD appropriations Bill. I want to be
in any Senate authorizing bill. Again, we didn't have a Senate authorizing bill last year, no transit title, no
rail title. I think we'll have those. I want our RRIF fix in it, also from Senate THUD appropriation. And then
I want standalone bills again.
We had our house delegation introduced a standalone bill in the Senate. Perlmutter is already committed
to introducing a bill in the House, and I think we can get that meeting tomorrow with Hickenlooper's new
transportation L.A. To speak with him and get Senator Bennett again to introduce a joint bill.
Not that they would move these bills independently, but it is a way to signal to the authorizers and
appropriators that our entire delegation is committed to moving this provision, and so it should travel on a
bill that will pass, for example, the appropriations measure. So you don't pay me to be pessimistic. You
pay me to be optimistic, but I'm hitting every possible base, working it as hard as we can, and I have
every hope to be optimistic this time around.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that additional detail. I appreciate that, and so then I will become more
optimistic. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Whitmore is actually before me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Please go ahead, Shontel. I'll wait. I need a little more time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. I just have maybe two questions and maybe a
comment or maybe two comments. We'll figure it out as we go. On packet page 79, at the very end,
Michael, you spoke about the N Line promotional fare. And the very last sentence, it reads that
Government Relations was among staff providing information to N Line stakeholders who were interested
in exploring options to maintain a local fair along the whole N line.
And so I had two questions about that. My first question is around the data that we would have collected
on the N Line promotional fare. I know you all sent some information out last month, and I was curious if
that information was being used to inform how the stakeholders along the N line might be able to maintain
a local fare. That's the first piece.
And then the second is if that would be extended further, because we talked about this in terms of our
fare zones. And so if that conversation would be extended to maybe some of our bus routes or some of
our local routes, so I'm just curious of those two things.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis, if I may take that question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Davies, if you don't mind yielding the floor. So Mr. Davies was in support of me in
reference to meeting with various constituencies as it related to the N Line promotional fair, and Director
Buzek was also a part of those conversations that were spawned by our State Advocate, being Jenifer
Brandberry.
So with that as a backdrop, there was some inquiry relative to us extending the term of the promotional
therapy, which we do not have the auspices to do, recognizing that we must adhere to the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, specifically Title VI, and moreso the Executive Order 12898 that addresses environmental
justice. So with that as the backdrop, conveyed that to the stakeholders along said corridor, and there

were discussions that ensued with two municipalities whether or not they would want to subsidize that
fare so their constituents could benefit from that.
So that was the nature of the conversation at hand. At this juncture, that conversation hasn't gone any
further, and recognizing that once I examined the situation that was before us, recognizing that the N Line
was open during the course of the pandemic, that data which you all received relative to the N Line
basically took a snapshot of people's willingness to support the regional fare.
However, in reference to using that to do anything else, it did not speak to the aspects that should be
captured when you do a survey of that nature relative to a fair equity analysis, relative to no demographic
information regarding income level nor one's race and/or ethnicity.
So with that as a backdrop, that led to me convening a cross-departmental functional team whereby we're
going to look at fare equity across the district as well as a study that will enable us to have a basic set of
facts, a common set of facts, as we move forward, recognizing when you do a fair analysis as prescribed
by Title VI, you need to have your data set within a five-year window.
The last time we collected information to be utilized for that effort took place in 2015, so that's the context
around that statement that was included in the Board packet. I hope that addresses your questions.
Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. Thank you so much, General Manager, for the context. I appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that all, Director Lewis? Great. Director Whitmore, no more time.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. This is either the second or third meeting in a row that Director Dishell has
helped me remember something or at least to trigger something, so man, I'm going to be dangerous once
I get to meet him finally in person and shake his hand. So thank you for that. The thought came into my
mind regarding the PUC conversation, but a bit of the spin off in regard to the electric fleet issue.
And it seemed to me that there may be some monies available through the five stimulus bills at the state
capital, most of which are bipartisan. And I was just wanting to check in with Jenifer or Meghan on that,
and perhaps Michael knows if there were some, but it seemed like there might be somewhat of an
opportunity. So if any one of those individuals could weigh in on that, it might be helpful to at least
Director Dishell and a couple others of us.
MICHAEL DAVIES: I'll let Jenifer touch on that.
JENNIFER BRANDEBERRY: That's a great question, Director Whitmore, and hello, everybody. It's nice
to see you. There are a handful of stimulus bills going through the legislature right now, and one in
particular, Senate Bill 230, probably is a place that I would go looking. It is $40 million to the governor's
department of energy, and I think there's some opportunities potentially there that we could have
conversations with as sponsors about some of the electrification issues that Director Dishell raised.
I know, and Meghan might want to chime in on this. In the past, we were also able to get some money
from that Volkswagen settlement, national settlement, that went towards electrification as well. So happy
to dig in on that and report back.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else, Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Not at the moment, unless Director Dishell puts another seed in the back of my
hollowed mind.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We'll get more chances in another meeting in a few minutes.

TROY WHITMORE: I'll go to mute. Just quickly, Jenifer, do we expect to finally see some legislative
language on the big transportation bill soon?
JENNIFER BRANDEBERRY: Well, it is April, and the session technically will go through the first week of
June, so I would hope so. I think the sad thing is we've been told since January that we would see
something, and I think all we have been able to share with you to date is the PowerPoint presentation that
was presented to various interest groups.
I know that the bill has been delivered to the sponsors. It's over 100 pages long, and they just haven't
decided to share it yet. I think part of that is because the budget has been introduced in the state Senate
this week, and I think the bill is starting in the Senate, so my guess is maybe toward the end of the week
or the first part of next week.
This week, really, in the Senate, the priority focus is the state budget that is supposed to be finished at
the end of this week and it'll go to the House. And then I think we might have a shot of seeing a draft, and
we will certainly get it to as soon as we have our hands on it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much.
JENNIFER BRANDEBERRY: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, it looks like Director Dishell took the-BOBBY DISHELL: This time, Director Whitmore put something in my head, and I promise this is the last
thing, which is just to put a fine point on the electrification piece. It's also any money or funds that might
be available to put in electric vehicle chargers, that sounds like a great opportunity at our park and rides.
And if there is, it's not free money, but if there is money or incentives available, right, not just on fleet
electrification but other ways that we can support an energy transition, making sure that we're capitalizing
on those opportunities.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Certainly. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And just this has come up again, but I've been hearing it at repeated forums this
morning at commuting solutions, the air quality control council rulemaking that is going to require
employer trip reduction for major employers, that they have to meet certain goals. It just seems like such
a great opportunity for us in our pass programs and all of those things to be talking to them.
I think I was told at a previous meeting that we have somebody sort of involved with that, but we following
closely? Are we thinking about how we can capitalize on that at this point?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. And yes, we are
working cooperatively. A couple of weeks back, we met with various environmentalist groups as we look
at this from a holistic fashion, trying to discern the best path forward as we discern what it is that we
should be doing. So yes, we are open to leveraging this, because recognizing that we're looking at
reducing our carbon footprint quite naturally, the most logical method in which to do this, is utilizing mass
transport.
So this gives us a prime opportunity to have a seat at the table and lean into the discussion to figure out
how we can be that integral piece in reference to being the mobility provider. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much. I'm glad to hear it. All righty, are we done? I think we're
done. Thank you all. Thanks to our advocates. Our next meeting is June 8. Are there any other matters
from anybody on the Board before we take a little break and launch to our next meeting? All right, do we
have a motion to adjourn?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.

DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, I'm going to assume everybody supports that. We are going to adjourn.
Let's see. It is 7:02. How about a five-minute break before we come back for the next round.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks everyone. Yeah.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.

