2025-09-30
Special Executive Committee Meeting
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: [INAUDIBLE] OK, I'll now call the Tuesday, September 30 Special Executive
Committee to order. We're convened as of 4:01 PM. I'd respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting in
person to remain quiet unless called upon, and those attending remotely to mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings,
will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-Time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who'd like to access this service should send an email to the Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. A link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who'd like access to a live transcript of this meeting in
Spanish. The livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I'll call the roll for the committee members. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: I'm here.
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect, and I am here. We have five members, five of five. I also, for the sake
of the record note, Director Harwick has joined us. Director Guissinger has joined us. Director Catlin has
joined us. Director Larsen has joined us. And Director Chandler has joined us. And I don't see anyone
online.
JACK KROLL : No, I think Director Gutschenritter will join the executive session.
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect, sounds good. Please note that today's Executive Committee does not
have a section for public comment this afternoon. However, the public can still offer comments by email or
by participating in person or remotely during the regular scheduled September 30 Board Meeting, which
will commence later this evening at 5:30 PM or at the conclusion of this meeting, whichever is later.

In a moment, the Committee will meet in executive session with the Executive Manager of the Board office
regarding his 2024-2025 performance leading the agency values, base job accountabilities, performance
priorities, and to receive input from the Board of Directors related to his performance. I'd like to amend the
motion to move into executive session to state that the Executive Committee meeting will be deemed
adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session.
For public transparency, this means that once the Committee moves into executive session, the main
meeting will adjourn. I'll now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So, moved.
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: Well, let me say it. Pursuant 2224-6-402, for consideration of personnel matters
regarding the board's dialogue with the Executive Manager of the Board office on his 2024-2025
performance in meeting the agency values, base job accountabilities, and his performance priorities and
input from the Board of Directors on areas of focus for the 2025-2026 performance period. Director O'Keefe,
I heard you as the mover.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yeah, I'll still keep it on the record.
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: Sounds good. Do we have a second?
SPEAKER 3: Second.
CHAIR JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent, is there any discussion on this item? OK, are there any no votes
before we go in? OK, none. For the sake of the record, we would also like to say Director Guzman has just
joined us, OK.
SPEAKER 4: OK, I'm going to exit this meeting.

