Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 7, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 8, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on June 7, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Brohl, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Chair Kemp and Director Hoy left the meeting early.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Cory Granrud, David
Hollis, Terry Howerter, Genevieve Hutchison, Austin Jenkins, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Julie
Skeen, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, Mike Turner, Del Walker, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Cameron Bertron – DURA, Dan Cohen – D4 Urban Investment Group,
Jason Fell – City of Boulder, Lloyd Herren – Alameda Station, Jeff Leib
–Denver Post, Tyler Lowe – Alameda Station, Bill Mosher –
DUSPA/Trammel Crow, Howard Noble – Noble Property Group, James
Reurd – DURA, Debra Wilcox – CAC, Tracy Winfree – City of Boulder,
****

Call to Order

I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 7:08 p.m.
Director Cohen gave a quick update regarding the Mayoral Election
noting that Michael Hancock is leading Chris Romer by 10,000 votes
almost 13% of the vote.

CAC Update
Debra Wilcox noted that in lieu of the work session in May, the Citizen Alliance
Committee attended the Transit Alliance event. The quarterly meeting is June 15th
which will be held 11:30a.m. – 1:30p.m. at the Plaza One Tower Arapahoe Station

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 7, 2011
Page 2
location. This is a great opportunity to attend since this is a lunch time meeting on
the rail line at one of the stations.
Director James noted that the Transit Alliance Event held in May was a great event
that allowed for strategic planning and included a question and answer session to
develop ideas as to which direction the alliance should look towards in the future.
Director Bagley noted that he along with Director O’Boyle will not be in attendance
for the next CAC meeting due to the upcoming APTA Conference in Boston, but that
perhaps Director McMullen could attend instead. Director McMullen indicated that he
would indeed try to attend, and Director Cohen noted that he would be at the next
meeting as well.
II.

Recommended Action


Authorization for Contract Amendment with White Construction for Elati
Maintenance Facility.

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment not to exceed $200,000 to White
Construction Group for additional enhancements to the Elati Light Rail Maintenance
Facility. This action would increase the current contract amount of $5,357,417.64,
including previously awarded change orders, to a new contract total of
$5,557,417.64. Funding for this contract amendment is included in the 2011
Proposed Amended Budget for the FasTracks Light Rail Maintenance Facility Project.
Greg Straight explained that this project begin in 2007. The FasTracks team came
up with the concept of expanding the existing facilities to accommodate the new
vehicles for the FasTracks program. This is the 3rd and final phase of the project by
adding a wash bay and making modifications to the interior for parts storage. Also,
additional offices will be added to the facility, which will require reconfiguring of the
administration hall.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the June 21, 2011 Board
meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director
Brohl
offered
her
congratulations for this project
regarding the high percentage of
DBE participation.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 7, 2011
Page 3
Vote on
the motion:



The motion passed Unanimously.

I-225 Property Acquisition Phase I

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as
necessary for construction of the 1-225 Segment 1 Light Rail Project and authorize
staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
Susan Altes noted that at the beginning of any property acquisition staff approaches
the Board so that we can pursue the acquisition process. All property acquisitions
are done under the Federal Uniform Acquisition and Relocation Policies Act of 1970
as amended.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the June 21, 2011 Board
meeting.
Director
motion.

Discussion:

Bagley

seconded

the

Director Brohl noted that the
resolution document needs to be
updated to show Director Malpiede
as the Secretary instead of Director
Bagley.
Director Cohen added that for the
newer Board Members that have
not attended Acquisition Training,
staff has brought booklets for
Directors to reference as questions
arise from constituents regarding
the acquisition process.

Vote on
the motion:
III.

The motion passed Unanimously.

Update
 FasTracks Quality Management
Rick Clarke noted that ongoing activities include the implementation of the of $305
Million in projects, LRT design criteria updates, Environmental planning has been
completed on all corridors, Planning for the West Rail Line and DUS cutovers, and
the Rail Activation Team for the West Rail Line has begun. Overall the West Corridor

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 7, 2011
Page 4
is 75% completed and should be completed on time, and within the established
corridor budget parameters. Denver Union Station is 30% completed and should also
be finished within the set time frame and corridor budget. The Eagle P3 Project final
design is ongoing, along with property acquisition and the EMU Commuter rail model
is currently on display at DUS until June 18th.
Director Cohen added that the current Cold Springs Park-n-Ride will be closed later
this summer, and the parking area will be moved to the south 2 blocks and renamed
the Federal Center Station Park-n-Ride.
Rick Clarke further noted that the FasTracks Program Management Plan (PMP)
describes the basic FasTracks program, organization and technical and business
processes, and each corridor has its own PMP.
General Manager Washington added that the Program Management Plan has to be
submitted to the Federal Transit Administration, and this plan lays out the
organizational structure, leadership, and other criteria required. The FTA will not
issue a FFGA unless a PMP is in place with experienced staff in residence that can
manage these programs. This is one of the most important documents in terms of a
FTA review before any FFGA will be issued.
Director Cohen thanked the FasTracks team for this presentation and noted that this
highlights RTD’s management of $3 Billion dollars at work among the different
projects/corridors.
Director Daly inquired as to what was the current FFGA countdown. General
Manager Washington indicated that 23 days were left.
Directors Brohl, Deadwyler, and Malpiede added that they had attended their
individual Mock EMU Stakeholder Tours and were all appreciative of the comments
by their constituents and communities, and thanked staff for their time and
commitment to this project.
 Right of Way
Susan Altes noted as mentioned previously, RTD acquires all property acquisitions
under the Federal Uniform Acquisition and Relocation Policies Act of 1970 as
amended by Congress in 1987. The West Corridor process identified over 320
parcel impacts that had to be acquired in addition to the rail right of way that RTD
already owned for the construction of the West Corridor Light Rail Project. Of the
320 plus impacts that had to be acquired, 264 were acquired from private entities,
and many of those were in residential areas. There were 22 full takes, with the rest
being partial acquisitions. It is important to note that there were only 36 Petitions
and Condemnations filed, meaning we only moved to the legal process 36 times and
of those 36, there were only 5 value trials which is less than 2.7% of acquisitions
going though the court process.
Director Cohen added that he was very happy to hear the emphasis on the fact that

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 7, 2011
Page 5
RTD takes property acquisition very seriously, and are sensitive to the emotional and
logistical impacts this process can entail.
Director Tayer added that we should act fairly, respectful, and also to demonstrate
integrity in the process. Based on the numbers provided tonight, it shows that we
are proceeding delicately with those individuals who are confronted with life
changing circumstances not of their doing.
Director Deadwyler noted that one of her constituents had received a letter of intent
quite a while ago, but had not since been contacted, and inquired as to what
happens next in these situations. Susan Altes indicated that since this is a design
build contract, there could be factors delaying the acquisition process. Until the
design is completed, we cannot appraise the property, nor give the property owner
the appropriate information for them to have their own appraisal completed. Director
Deadwyler inquired as to what happens if a letter of intent was issued, but we
change our mind regarding their property. Susan Altes explained that scenario has
happened before, and if the property owner expended funds, RTD may be
responsible for some of the costs the property owner has incurred up to that point.
 Industry Forum
General Manager Washington indicated that staff has been discussing this for over
the past year. The idea is to open our agency to the private sector, which is one of
the Board/SLT goals for 2012.
Julie Skeen noted that this program has 2 specific objectives: Finding opportunities
to finish the FasTracks program faster, and finding ways to enhance the overall
customer experience system wide. Our overall strategy is to create a program within
RTD that gages private sector firms, and brings technology to the table. A key piece
will be an industry forum which will be held in August to introduce this program to
the private sector.
General Manager Washington added that a few agencies had wanted to join us on
this Industry Forum, but we have decided to do this ourselves. Once we put this out,
this Forum is likely to become a national model.
IV.

Other Matters
Director Cohen expressed his expectation that the full Board would be attending the
APTA Annual Meeting later this coming year, especially since Denver-Aurora topped
the list of the 10 Best Cities for Public Transportation, published by U.S. News and
World Report. Also, he noted that our own David Genova was recently named the
Vice Chair of the APTA Rail Safety Committee, which will be ratified at the APTA
Conference in Boston next week.
Director Daly highlighted that at the recent Bus Conference, RTD was presented with
a certificate of merit for exceptional achievement in safely and security.
Director Cohen lastly added that according to the news updates and email alerts,
Michael Hancock is being named as the new Mayor of Denver.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 7, 2011
Page 6

V.

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for July 5,
2011.

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the Planning and Development Committee at 8:25
p.m.

