Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, March 8, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

6:32 PM
6:35 PM
6:33 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Committee Chair
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Present

6:31 PM
6:31 PM
6:30 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:34 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

6:33 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:32 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:30 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

6:32 PM
6:30 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

6:33 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:32 PM

Directors Archuleta, Hoy, Lubow, Menten and Solano were late.
Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Garrett Christnacht, Heather Copp,
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Lee Cryer, Nate Currey, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Cory
Granrud, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Doug
MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Andy Mutz, Scott
Reed, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,
Brian Welch

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Robert Ferrin, Eugene Howard, Sheryl Machado,
Sean Makin, Julie McKenna, Chris Nevitt, Cindy Patton, Josh Retzkl,
Joe Triplett, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, RTD Position on Senate Bill 16-123
The RTD Board of Directors votes to approve Resolution No. __ Series of
2016 to take a position in opposition of Senate Bill 16-123. If passed,
Senate Bill 16-123 would prohibit the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) from requiring a high occupancy vehicle to use a
switchable transponder when driving in a high occupancy toll lane.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 29, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 0]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, James, Lasater,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
AWAY:
Archuleta, Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Solano
Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, apologized on behalf of
Roger Sherman for his absence as he was sick. She shared that the
Colorado Contractors Association, Associated General Contractors of
Colorado, the Colorado Construction Industry Coalition and Move Colorado
were moving forward with a transportation funding measure. She said
details were still being worked out such as how much might be allocated for
transit funding.
Sherry Ellebracht stated there were 5 open seats on the Citizens Advisory
Committee. Applications from interested citizens are due by the end of
March.
Director Lubow expressed concern over the transportation funding efforts by
the various Colorado contractors associations. She wondered if it would be
difficult for a transit related initiative to pass in the future even if the
transportation initiative proposed by the contractors did not have any
funding set aside for transit. Sherry Ellebracht noted there was still much
discussion that needed to happen around what would be included in the
ballot language but there was talk of including transit funding.

• State Update - Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna, indicated that Julie McKenna
and Megan Wagner were both in attendance with her. She reminded the
Board that the Legislative Session was about halfway through. She stated
House Bill 16-1008 related to our bus-on-shoulder operations passed both
chambers and was awaiting signature from the Governor.
Jenifer Brandeberry noted there were several additional bills that were of
interest to RTD. The first is House Bill 1010 that is related to prairie dogs
and notification of their release, which could mean additional time and cost
for RTD if prairie dogs needed to be moved due to our construction;
however, she said as this bill stands it will probably not pass without any
amendments. She commented that Senate Bill 16-037 related to the
Colorado Open Records Act was postponed indefinitely but there will be a
meeting of interested stakeholders to keep the discussion going. Finally,
Senate Bill 16-123 related to free access to high occupancy vehicle lanes
has been laid over until additional data from CDOT and the HTPE about the
cost can be gathered.
Jenifer Brandeberry shared that RTD was asked to present to the House
Transportation Committee about paratransit services. She said Interim
General Manager Genova, Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus

Operations, and Chair Tobiassen were all in attendance. She stated
committee was very impressed with the presentation. There were a lot of
questions but overall it was a great opportunity to educate the committee
about the challenges RTD faces due to technology and a lack of drivers.
She thanked everyone for their time in presenting as it was very well
received.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Sherry Ellebracht indicated that Mike Dino was already in Washington, D.C.
in preparation for the APTA Legislative Conference. She said information
packets for the conference were provided to all Board members so everyone
was aware of the itinerary and planned meetings. She noted that Squire
Patton Boggs was still working to set up meetings but as of the last count
there were 17, so it would be a very busy trip.
Sherry Ellebracht shared that USDOT just announced another TIGER Grant
pot of money of about $500 million. She said staff has not made any
decisions yet but is evaluating potential applications. Additionally, the
President’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget proposal was released at the beginning
of February. Included in the budget was $175 million for the Eagle P3
project. She explained that RTD should not expect to get $175 million as
the budget would not be passed as presented but it shows how much the
President values the project.
Director Bagley expressed his support of the five Directors who would be
attending the APTA Legislative Conference. He thanked Chair Folska, ViceChair Francone and Sherry Ellebracht for the material that was provided to
the Board about the conference itinerary.
Committee Chair Folska thanked Sherry Ellebracht for all her hard work.

D. Other Matters
Committee Chair Folska shared that Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of
Communications, would be showing a video about connecting Colorado that she
was very excited about. Scott Reed stated this was a three minute version of a
longer video that would be released shortly before the A-Line opening. He said the
video was put together in conjunction with DIA, DRCOG and CDOT. He pointed
out that Director Folska was really the muse for this video. He recognized the
amazing work of the marketing team that put the video together.
Committee Chair Folska commented that DRCOG showed a video for their Diamond
Anniversary and she thought RTD needed something similar. She thinks the
marketing department did a wonderful job on the video.

Director Bagley stated the video was fantastic. He asked that the Directors be
provided with copies as it would be great to show during community presentations.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 5, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 6:51 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

