January, 2 2020
Special Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And Peggy, you signed this, right? And Jeff, did you get a chance to
find this card for Jenifer?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
All right. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I now call to order the Special Board Meeting of
Thursday, January 2, 2020. The record will reflect that we are convened as of 5:35 PM Mountain
Standard Time on this date. I would respectfully request everyone to turn your cell phones on
silent, or stun, or whatever works for you. And I will also state, for the sake of the record, that all
of our proceedings are audio and video recorded, so please be mindful of that. Thank you. Miss
McManus, if you would now please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow? Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE TISDALE: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Fourteen present, one absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We begin all of our meetings with the safety briefing.
And I know many of you have heard this many times over and over, so I'll try to make it as quick
as I can. If we have a medical emergency that necessitates calling 911, I will ask our General
Counsel to make that telephone call. If there are any medically trained professionals in the room- I don't know that there are-- we would respectfully request you to assist. And if needed, an
automatic emergency defibrillator device is available on the wall outside this room on the right.
In the event that we must evacuate the building due to an emergency, I ask you please calmly to
exit out the door through which you entered, go up the stairs, around the security desk-- the brand
new security desk-- and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to
direct you to a safe meet-up area. If there is anyone needing special assistance, that assistance will
be provided by RTD staff.
And of course, all of you know that the other thing that we always talk about is the opportunity to
download the Transit Watch app on your phone. So if you haven't done that, make sure you do it.
And before I conclude with the safety note and go into the agenda, I see Director Williams chooses
to be recognized. So Director Williams, you are recognized.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I wanted to comment on how very much we like
the front entrance. It's much more welcoming, more modern-looking, and I stopped and told the
guys that. So whoever is responsible for that, I'm not sure who the RDD room designer is at this
moment, but we thank them very much for that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And speaking of thanks, we thank all of you for being here on the
day after New Year's Day. That's quite an accomplishment for you to do that. But a special note
of thanks to our birthday boy, Director Vince Buzek. We thank you for being here.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
Yeah. Maybe we can forego that. Although I know we would be delighted and entertained by the
voices around this table. Some in particular. But maybe we'll pass on that.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
So we turn now to the most important topic on our agenda. There are several other ancillary topics.
And that concerns the Interim General Manager search discussion. The Board is convened here
tonight for purposes of discussing the applicants that have submitted materials to us for the position
of an Interim General Manager.
The Board Office-- for the sake of this record, let us make this very clear. The Board Office has
supplied at each Director with a binder of all those who submitted application materials. Those
binders were personally delivered to each Director on Christmas Eve. Each Director has had the
opportunity to review and consider those since that date.
The Executive Committee met on Friday, December 27, and discussed all of those materials. And
there were some Directors who were present for that discussion in person in the Executive Session
of the Executive Committee Meeting. Our task this evening is to narrow those candidates down to
a reasonable number to invite for interviews in the coming days.
So we have a few intial items of business. Here, I'll put this here so you can read it easier. We have
been advised by our Human Resources and Civil Rights Offices that the panel of interviewers
should be consistent for all interviewees. That is, the Directors who cannot participate in all of the
interviews for these candidates should ideally, in the words of our Human Resources and Civil
Rights Offices, not participate in any of the interviews.
And with that in mind, the Board Office has conducted a polling of all of the Directors to determine
potential dates to conduct interviews for the initial pool of candidates during one or more Special
Board Meetings that would be held as necessary between this coming Thursday-- that's one week
from tonight, January 9, 2020-- and through until Friday, January 17, 2020. Alternatively, several
Directors have expressed an interest in setting aside one business day in order to conduct
interviews for all of the initial candidates in that one blocked time-- assuming, of course, that we
would find that all of the interviewees would be available to speak with us on that date. The

majority of the Directors have indicated to the Board Office that in fact, they could attend such a
one-day session of interviews during business hours next week-- one week from today. That's this
coming Thursday, January the 9th.
So at this time, with your permission, I'm going to ask for a head nod from each of you to determine
if you are amenable for conducting interviews on that date. And that's, again, Thursday, January
9, during the day. If you are ready to proceed in that manner, then we're going to ask-- again,
remembering that if you can't make the interviews, then really, you shouldn't participate at all.
So before I ask for the head nod, I note that there are some Directors who have signed in to speak.
Let me acknowledge them first, because the issue is January 9 to do it as a block or to set up for
some evenings. And I will restate to you the obvious, which is we're discussing this matter now in
open meeting, rather than in the Executive Session, because all questions that relate to procedure
are public and transparent and held in the open meeting. Anything other than that is to be conducted
during the Executive Session. So first, let me recognize Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You had mentioned that HR and Civil Rights have
weighed in that if we can't participate in every interview, we shouldn't participate in any. Is that
the sense I'm getting?
DOUG TISDALE: That is what has been reported to me.
VINCE BUZEK: And if there are, say, eight candidates, and I can make seven of the interviews,
but I can't make the eighth, I shouldn't go to any of them. Is that right?
DOUG TISDALE: That's how I read the advisement. And I would certainly ask our General
Counsel to weigh in on that. Or if there are any representatives of either HR or from Civil Rights
who are present who would wish to speak to that further. And Ms. McManus, as the Executive
Manager of the Board, might also supplement. But-VINCE BUZEK: I'm going to ask the General Counsel for an opinion in a minute, if I could finish
my questions. But what about, then, the selection process? If I can't participate in all of the
interviews, am I forbidden from participating in the selection process?
DOUG TISDALE: I wouldn't think that was the conclusion, but that's simply my view.
VINCE BUZEK: No, I get you. So I'll turn to our General Counsel and ask, first of all, is it the
law that if I can't make all of these interviews or any one of us can't make all the interviews, we
shouldn't go to any of them?
DOUG TISDALE: And we'll now recognize General Counsel and give him an opportunity to
opine, recognizing it wasn't a statement from the General Counsel's Office, but rather from the
Human Resources Department and from the Civil Rights Division.
VINCE BUZEK: Understood.

DOUG TISDALE: That made that statement to the Executive Manager of the Board. General
Counsel, you are recognized.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. I can't state the letter of
the law on that. I wasn't asked about that ahead of time, and I don't know the answer to that.
I can state that it's consistent with RTD practice in all the hirings we have that we have the same
interview panel whenever we interview for candidates, just to ensure that there is consistency in
the selection process. Otherwise, if you have a panel that varying, not all the panelists have the
opportunity to see and hear from all the interviewees, and you may end up with inconsistent results.
The goal, though-- overall, the goal is to try to ensure that the process is as clear and as fair to
everyone as possible. And the more you inject uncertainty into the system, the more likely or
possible it is that somebody could complain that they weren't treated fairly.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, someone can always make that complaint, can't they? So what about the
ability or inability to participate in the decision-making process if a Director hasn't been to all of
the interviews.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I don't know the answer to that. I can look into that.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm going to need an opinion on that before I give a head nod to any date.
ROLF ASPHAUG: All right. It would help-- the sooner I can get questions from you, the better.
It's very difficult for me to answer on the spot.
VINCE BUZEK: What about-- well, we all think on our feet. What about if a Director who couldn't
make the meeting listens to the audio, watches the video of that session? Does that cure the issue?
Because they can't ask questions. My understanding is it's going to be just a few people asking
questions. So if I'm just going to sit in the audience and listen, what's the difference between
listening to an audio or videotape of it later?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you. To me, I think that that's acceptable, that that's a solution.
VINCE BUZEK: That would be OK, then.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Because there's no requirement that everybody actually ask questions, or
anything. It's right the opportunity for everyone to see and hear.
VINCE BUZEK: In fact, my understanding is not everybody is going to be asking questions. That
would be a melee.
[LAUGHTER]
And I get that. I get that. So I went and-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Starting with you.

VINCE BUZEK: Chose our questions. So anyway, if you could give me a firm opinion on that,
that would be pretty important, because these dates are coming up. And of the one date that I said
I was unavailable for two hours of, that's the date that's being picked. So same you? With you?
OK. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Excuse me, I'm sorry. Let's-VINCE BUZEK: I'm good.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. Let me ask Ms. McManus, perhaps if she has anything to
expand. I think, by the way, the thought of listening to the recording or viewing a recording is an
excellent solution that gets past all those issues. But Ms. McManus, because you had the
conversation with HR and Civil Rights, can you expand it all upon that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I basically just passed on the information as I heard it. It was brought
up today about listening to the recording. I don't know that we'll have full video of being able to
capture the candidates, but we will have, certainly, the audio of that. Just reminding folks that if
the interviews take seven hours, that for anybody to review it, they have to commit to seven hours
to listen to all the video, and it would have to be done here in the Board Office or somewhere here
in the building, as we wouldn't be able to release those videos, in my mind, to the street.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that. But obviously, I think if the point is that a Director can
make some of the meetings, they probably wouldn't have to listen to seven hours, but rather would
listen to the portion that they missed. And I'll turn to Director-- I'm sorry, to General Counsel to
supplement. Yes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would like to finish.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There is also the possibility, depending on what the Board wants, that
we take a break in a two-hour period that someone can't be there and reconvene later that day.
We're always happy to work around everybody's schedule, and if it's the Board's wish to get it
done on the same day, then we would try to work around that schedule.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you that's a great statement of flexibility. We appreciate that. General
Counsel, did you have a further comment?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. I just wanted to-- this is Rolf Asphaug again. Just wanted to say that if
it's a situation where somebody can't attend one or two of the interviews but they can listen in and
can hear the responses, then that would be fine. It's an issue of ensuring fundamental fairness that
everyone's treated in fundamentally the same way. That seems appropriate.
When we have interviews for people who are being hired by RTD, we certainly try to assure that
there is a small interviewing panel and that the same people attend all of the interviews. I realize
this is a little different situation, but it's just important that we get the procedure down. And that

sounds like a fair, reasonable approach, given how difficult it is to have 15 people attending
everything.
VINCE BUZEK: Understood.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I think that's an excellent thought. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Are these interviews conducted in an Executive Session or in public session?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Executive Session.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. So I don't think you could listen in live, right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: You can't listen in. I was just going to interject that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. OK. So thanks for the-DOUG TISDALE: Right. Yeah. Well, I understood the Executive Manager to be referring, when
she said listen in, listen in to the tape, because obviously, we don't have telephonic connections for
Executive Sessions for the reasons that we've stated at numerous points at great length previously.
Anything further, Directer Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No. Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I have a couple of things. Is there-- couple
questions-- a required number of Directors? Is there some kind of a quorum that must be there in
order to make it happen? That would be my first question.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, in the first instance, respond. The Board determined on December the
3rd that it would act as a selection committee of the whole. That's all 15. But needless to say, any
Committee or Board meeting need not proceed with all 15 members present. We have 14 present
here this evening.
The determination was, in the first instance, to say that questioning individual candidates would
be rotated through. Depending upon how many applicants there are that the Board chooses to
interview, we would take that number, divide it into 15, and say, all right. We'll have three or four
or five people, perhaps, conduct the questioning. And we would rotate through so that each
Director would, at least as to one candidate, have an opportunity for asking questions, again, on
behalf of all of the Selection Committee, of the whole.
KATE WILLIAMS: So in other words, if nobody but you could be there, you could conduct the
interviews? That's what I asked. How many Directors must be present on whatever date we pick?

DOUG TISDALE: So for a Committee meeting, I believe the quorum is five, and for the Board
meeting, the quorum is eight.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I think-- this is Rolf Asphaug. I think that the quorum is as low as-- yes, the
quorum is five for a Committee meeting. That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And I think for the Board, the quorum is eight, so you'd have to have at
least eight people present. And again, for those who are not able to be at a particular interview, the
same remedial process would be made available.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you. That was my first question. The second point I want to make
is this is 2020, and there are a number of government agencies that conduct what's called a Zoom
meeting-- it's a certain type of technology-- and successfully. And it can record the meeting, audio,
video, both, either, neither, however you want it to happen. I don't see any reason why we could
not conduct the interviews in a Zoom format, and then we would have an audio and video recording
that you can allow people to access.
And they don't have to watch it for seven hours straight. You can turn it on and turn it off and
continue to watch it. So if the RDT IT Department needs some help, in that my non-profit does it.
I'm happy to volunteer my time.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just checked with our IT folks, and we can support Zoom, although
we would have to readily test it very quickly in order to meet our dates.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well, the offer of Director Williams is noted and appreciated. And
I'm sure that our IT Department could profit by any experience from Director Williams in that
regard. Anything further, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just confirmed earlier tonight an 11 o'clock phone call on that
day with the State Auditor's Office, so I would hope that that could be rescheduled. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And I believe relative to the Office of State Auditor appointments that have
been made, that accommodations can be made should our interview process for an Interim GM
interrupt with those at any time and in any way, because I'm trying to recall-- oh, no. Mine is on
the 15th. All right. So yes, I appreciate that, and we would obviously make accommodations for
that. Director Walker-- I'm sorry, Director Broom, anything further?
BOB BROOM: No, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Mr. Secretary, Director Walker, you are
recognized.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Excuse me. I noticed that the process for-- pardon me-- that the process
for hiring slash transitioning to a new GM does allow for an appointment of a committee. So it's
not necessary that we all be present. I know I won't be able to make all of those dates, so I won't
be able to participate at all, I guess, especially on the 9th, because I have other commitments then.
So you can count me out of that participation, and I'll trust my Board members, however many are
able to participate to make that decision on what names are selected for finalists.
So I'm OK with the committee. I am wondering if all of the interviewees will be conducted by the
same medium, either in person or Skype or whatever? And if not, does that call into question the
fairness of the interviewees, allowing them all access, either personal or through technology, to
the Board Members?
DOUG TISDALE: I believe that as long as the opportunity is presented to participate in one of
those two media, it would be deemed the equivalent. Let me ask General Counsel to opine.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. This is Rolf Asphaug, again. Yes, we often do that, especially with outof-state candidates. We'll have candidates interviewed through Skype or some other means. So it's
not that unusual.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Executive Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: At this time, I think it might be appropriate for me to introduce our
folks here that are from HR. If any of the directors have questions, they can direct them to them as
well. We have Roger Vesely, who is with us. And he can step up to the podium where all our
speakers are, if you have questions of him. And then we have our Senior Manager of HR, Andrew
Gale, is here with us as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for pointing that out and let me ask at this time, Roger,
if you would, come forward and just confirm. First of all, have we messed anything up so far?
[LAUGHTER]
You need to turn the mic on.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There's one here.
DOUG TISDALE: Our Chief Operating Officer steps up and takes care of the situation. And is
that one-- we're having-ROGER VESELY: Evening. No, everything sounded great so far. I would just to [AUDIO OUT]
what General Counsel said, we do use the Skype, or we use GoToMeeting technology for our

remote interviews. [AUDIO OUT] cost. For most of our positions, we don't cover travel and per
diem.
It does work pretty well. Just a comment is, is that we see people perform sometimes better in a
GoToMeetings situation, electronic-type situation versus the face to face. So it really depends on
the individual. But I think having the choice available to each candidate is appropriate.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And, Andy, do you want to add
anything to what Roger has stated relative to this process? If you can just introduce yourself on
the record so that we know that you're here.
ANDREW GALE: This is Andrew Gale, Senior Director of Human Resources. And [AUDIO
OUT] Roger and Rolf do an excellent job. I have to [AUDIO OUT].
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Director Walker, did you have
anything further?
JEFF WALKER: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. So I wanted to know of other Directors if maybe the 10th
could work as an alternative date. I was just giving the one date. But I wonder if there were other
dates that other Directors might be available so that we-- those of us who are interested in
participating in all the interviews have the opportunity to do so.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Let me actually turn that question to the Executive
Manager of the Board. When you had the opportunity, Ms. Executive Manager, Ms. McManus,
when you had the opportunity to poll on the question of dates available, did you, in fact, have the
opportunity to check other dates, including, for example, January 10, 2020?
JOHN MCKAY: Chair, this is John McKay from the Board Office. When I conducted the polling
this last week or before the new year actually, the 9th was the most common thread among all the
responses from Directors. The 10th was available for eight or so Directors. But the 9th was
amenable to about 12 of them. So that's why we suggested that date.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so half again as many. Director Lewis, anything further?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Curious if we were to push it into the following week, if there would be dates
available?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, again, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm curious if we were to push it into the next week, so that Monday or the
Tuesday, if there were dates available.

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, on Monday the-SHONTEL LEWIS: 13th.
DOUG TISDALE: --13th?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Mm-hmm.
JOHN MCKAY: I can speak to that as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me ask Mr. McKay to respond to that.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. There are fewer people who had acknowledged that the 13th was
available. But we didn't ask that question specifically. We could re-ask the question.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So what we could do to respond to Director Lewis's question is get
at least a show of hands at this time as to availability. And let's supplement the question with the
fact that people who cannot attend in person would be able to review the audio and video for the
meeting. And we presume that video will be available through the miracle of modern technology
and the cooperation of Dr. Mack in creating a video record of these interviews.
So the first date that is in question is January 9. Can we just have a show of hands. This is not a
vote. This is just a survey, show of hands as to who's available on January 9? And with the one
portion of the day not available to you. But otherwise it looks like 12 or so.
How about January 10? Who would be available on January 10?
SHELLEY COOK: If I can reschedule those two interviews.
DOUG TISDALE: So we have about eight who indicate January 10 or more. I won't count.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're not available?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm supposed to talk to the state auditor.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, me to.
DOUG TISDALE: But I think-- yes, in terms of those state auditor interviews, I believe if we do
this, we can actually arrange rescheduling of those dates. Let me ask again. January 10, if you
would hold your hand up so that age-advantaged eyes will see you. So there's about 10 who would
be available on January 10. How about January 13? That's the Monday.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, that's the day meet auditor --

DOUG TISDALE: So we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 is what I see. I don't know if anybody sees anything
else. How about-- and of course January 14 is a Board meeting day. So it could be a little
problematic for us to do it then.
KATE WILLIAMS: Didn't John already do all this?
DOUG TISDALE: I believe he did. But the question was asked, and I didn't want it believed that
the Chair was somehow trying to obstruct dates. So we're going to replicate the process that John
McKay already did just to make sure that we have comfort with that.
So I am still seeing January 9 as the day that most Directors can do it. Now I will ask for a head
nod whether the Directors would be comfortable in attempting. Remember, this is an exercise that
is dependent upon the people with whom we speak.
They may say I can't make it on January 9. I'm getting married that day. I mean, I don't know what.
There's all kinds of things. So the point is this is simply checking availability to explore. Otherwise
we would have to explore a series of evening meetings, as we have previously discussed.
So if I may ask now for the head nod, are we in general agreement by at least eight Directors that
January 9 would be a day that we could do? And we have some dissent to that. But we have what
the Chair sees as a consensus in that regard. Director Lewis, did you have anything else that you
wanted to bring forward at this time? If not, Madam Second Vice Chair and Director RiveraMalpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Roger, just a question, if you can come
back up to the podium. I just want to make sure in terms of transparency that if we interview x
number of candidates and some can come in physically and some can come in by Skype, that's
OK. Or do they all have to use the same medium.
ROGER VESELY: No, that has been our practice here, where we've taken people from both the
electronic side and also face to face. And it has worked fine for us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much.
ROGER VESELY: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Second Vice Chair. Anything further?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Madam First Vice Chair, Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY: CATLIN Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Even though candidates are allowed to participate
by Skype, which we all thought was a good deal, particularly from a TDM perspective, but I
thought I understood from a conversation last week that the Board members could not participate
by Skype if they are out of town. Is that correct?

DOUG TISDALE: I'm trying to recall where that may have been mentioned. I'm not-BARBARA MCMANUS: We spoke about that in the Executive committee meeting. But because
we'll be in Executive Session, that is why anybody else would be exempt from dialing in through
that medium.
PEGGY: CATLIN OK, Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And for the reason, just to state again, the reason that we don't have people-and I know I said I wouldn't repeat this. But I feel the record wants it. That is because you cannot
control.
If a director dials in, you cannot control who else might be monitoring the conversation. So you
could be violating the privilege of an Executive Session. Despite someone's protestations that they
were alone, we cannot confirm that. Anything further, Madam Second Vice Chair? Director
Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. Director Buzek asked the question of, if he couldn't
attend, if he could still vote on the candidates? And I know we've said you can listen in or watch
it and that would heal it. But for some people, if they can't make the whole day, that's a long time
to need to watch video.
And we still have to get eight votes, I assume, to move someone forward. So I'm just wondering
how that would work. Do they-- can people still vote without being in the interview, if we take
good notes or something? Or how does that work?
DOUG TISDALE: Short answer, yes, they vote. Longer answer, the point is the opportunity to
participate in the interviews is just that, an opportunity. It's not a requirement. It's an opportunity
to participate. But in the past, when we have had a separate selection committee do the first process,
in that case, everyone was entitled to vote.
There was a committee that ran the process, came up with candidates. And everybody was entitled
to vote and then selected finalists, and then things proceeded. And I will illustrate. I'm on the
Denver Zoo Board of Governors, and we did just exactly that, where we had a committee go
through the process of finding a new CEO. And then we all read and spoke with the committee
and then voted.
So there is no prohibition on voting. And I looked at General Counsel to affirm that I haven't just
given bad legal advice.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug. No, that's correct. That's correct. I also just wanted to
add that the Board approved guidelines, that are part of-- that were actually approved by the Board,
say that Directors can't participate by phone in Executive Sessions. I just wanted to check on that.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Say it again.

ROLF ASPHAUG: The Board approved guidelines that, or the rules that have been approved by
the Board state that Directors cannot participate in Executive Sessions by phone.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. So that's an additional reason. But that's what I explained was the
policy behind that statement. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, just wanted to mention that from what I recall last time we went
through the process, we did have one candidate who was not in Colorado, tried to participate by
Skype. That was semi successful. It kept dropping out. I don't know if any other director here at
that time remembers that. So we had some challenges.
So I'm just simply stating now that if we could have a backup plan in place, since we can't control
that whole exchange, that would be very nice. Because that was extremely frustrating for both
sides. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I believe that Mr. McKay already has taken some
steps to provide for backup in the event that Skype doesn't work. And I forget all the details. And
I'm not sure whether this Zoom process is a way of addressing that as well. But yes, I am informed
that we do have backup procedures in place because that can be problematic.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair, I can speak to that. So right now we have a new GoToMeeting
set up for the Board office. We also have the one that we know is stable that is utilized through the
HR department. So we have two. If we lost one connection, we could connect through the other
account, if there happened to be something wrong with that account. Since they are spread across
multiple servers, they probably wouldn't be coming from the same place. So yes, that's what we
have in place right now.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Anything further, Director Menten?
Thank you. Director Walker, Mr. Secretary, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I remember that interview, and I'm hoping that technology has
advanced since then. But I have participated on some recently, some GoToMeetings, where the
connection-- the connection has to be solid on both ends not just one. I have a question. I don't
believe it's been answered yet. But what happens if we do not have an interim identified by January
20? How do we seat an interim interim? I don't believe that question's been answered.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for raising the question. The Chair had some other points that we
were going to go through relative to procedures before we get to asking for a motion for Executive
Session. So I think it's most opportune that we do that May I ask if I can defer that for a few
moments, as I address these points first?
JEFF WALKER: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Appreciate your cooperation, Mr. Secretary.
All right let me point out for the sake of the record that this is the first of two noticed meetings of
the Board on this topic. For the sake of the record, for the benefit of all, we have a meeting

scheduled here tomorrow night at 5:30 PM to discuss all of these matters, should we not be able
to conclude our business tonight.
Now, if this Board does conclude its business with the selection of preliminary candidates tonight,
then there will be no meeting tomorrow night. If, however, the Board does not conclude its
selection process tonight for candidates for interviews, then there will be a meeting tomorrow,
Friday, January 3, 2020, at 5:30 PM. You won't know that until the end of the Executive Session.
So the meeting is noticed. It's on the record.
We have only, if you will, internal people present in the room. So there's no one from outside the
RTD who will be prejudiced by this process in any way. But it is just something to state for the
record. If we don't conclude tonight, we carry over to tomorrow.
And we do not know how long this Executive Session will go. There is no time limit set in advance
or arbitrarily concerning that. So with that in mind, and Director Walker has anticipated this, the
Chair wanted to note that before we enter into Executive Session, this is the time for the Board to
ask any other questions regarding process or to comment on the process or take other action as
may be appropriate. And so now, if I may, I'm going to go back to Director Walker to state the
question again so that Counsel and Mr. Meter, as the interim GM present here this evening, and
the Board office, if anyone has any comments on that. But why don't you restate your comment,
Mr. Secretary, so we have that clear in this record.
JEFF WALKER: My question is regarding the placement of an interim-interim General manager,
in case a permanent-- well, I guess the interim General manager is not seated by January 20,
meaning the finalist for that position is not seated in place and-- by the-- I'm sorry, not by January
20, but by January 21, what is the process for identifying that person?
DOUG TISDALE: And then we'll recognize people in order in just a moment. Let me begin with
Director Menten. And then we'll go to Director Williams. And then the Chair has some
observations as well. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So how come I get a go ahead of Director Walker? I missed. I
was daydreaming or something.
DOUG TISDALE: You're off-- are you going to raise a different question? Because I'd like to see
if we could have some discussion on this point first before raising additional points.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, it's a big spiderweb. So-- really is. It goes along the line of a question
that Director Williams asked at one point. I don't know that we got the answer of, what if we just
take the interim as top notch, and we're going to skip this step of really going out for a permanent?
So that somewhat plays into all of that. But I think also some of the Board of Directors who weren't
at the February-- or December 27 meeting may not be aware of where we are in the permanent
search.

So maybe that's also something that should be in this open session. Those are the two main things
that come to mind for me. And I'm happy to step aside and let Director Walker ask his question
because I have some concerns about that also.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Let me make note of the question first for the record that
we'll address first, and that is, do we have a process for an acting interim General manager to serve
in the event that our process of selecting an interim General manager is not concluded by January
20, which is the last date for our General Manager, Mr. Genova. And I understand that Director
Williams is anxious to weigh in on this. And so we will now turn to Director Williams to address
the topic.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair, I think, Director Walker, that Dave Genova isn't here right
now. And the agency is functioning and that we have somebody that Dave has designated. And I
think that if we had to have an interim-interim-interim or whatever, I know that we have-- I don't
know what I'm at liberty to say and not say. But I think that the agency will not grind to a halt if
Mr. Genova leaves on the 21st and we have not appointed an interim.
Perhaps I am mistaken about that. But I think we have done a stupendous job of moving this
process forward. We got 40-plus applicants without spending any money or going outside. We
have all been working very hard to move this forward. And this discussion began on a decision of
what day could the majority of us meet to follow the process through. It seems to me that you are
only trying to derail the process. And so I think that we should just move on.
JEFF WALKER: Mr. Chair, if I may.
DOUG TISDALE: I understand. I'm going to give him a right of reply, by virtue of that last
comment. So Mr. Secretary, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: So Mr. Genova's contract expired. Mr. Genova is an employee by contract. His
contract expires on January 21-- on January 20. His contract allows him to delegate authority to
various employees. Once he is no longer under contract, he no longer has a right to delegate
anything to anybody.
So his succession plan no longer exists. So I want to know who will be sitting in that seat because
the people identified-- because he no longer has the authority to grant anything to anyone, because
he no longer works here. So I want to know who will be sitting in that seat and how do we get
them into that-- how do we get that person into that seat. That's what I'm unclear of.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. If the Chair may weigh in at this point, I believe that
actually-- I think Director Williams point is well taken, that the succession plan is intended to
operate upon the absence of the General manager, whether voluntary, involuntary, or otherwise.
So I believe that the question of an acting General manager is probably resolved by the succession
plan, which names Mr. Meter in the first instance, Mr. Ford in the second instance, and Ms
McKillop in the third instance, again, because each of those would be subject to their agreement
to step into that interim position.

They cannot be mandated to do that. I believe that to be the case. Now, having opined as much as
a lawyer shouldn't, let me turn to General Counsel and ask whether he has any thoughts in this
regard.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolph Asphaug It's an interesting point that, in fact, his contract is
ending on January 20, as Director Walker points out. The succession plan is if on January 19-- I
always talk about somebody being hit by a bus when I refer to unusual things happening. If I were
hit by a bus on February 6, the day before I retire, I have a succession plan in place, as we should
have.
And so that is something we can fall back on. Ultimately, it's up to the Board how the Board wishes
to proceed on this. There's not a legal constraint on this. But the succession plan is one way to go.
One thing that needs to be discussed is what do you do if there are people who are on that
succession list who also are candidates? That's something the Board should take into account. I
know that in the past, in the distant past, when I first came to RTD, we had the General manager
suddenly leave.
And we had somebody who clearly stated they were not interested in being the General manager
serving in an interim capacity until a more permanent situation could be developed. So that's a
possibility as well. But the succession plan is there for a reason. It's people who have been
designated and who are willing to serve and who have some training to do that.
DOUG TISDALE: And again, the Chair will simply state that the Chair's understanding is that the
succession plan exists outside of the contract. The succession plan is approved by this Board. And
we-- the General manager had to submit one to us. That had to be approved. That was approved.
So it exists.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, in that case, I was not aware that the succession-- yes, if the succession
plan was approved by the Board, that puts a whole-- that puts a different wrinkle on it.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, because there is a requirement that the General manager submit one, and
so that was done. So I think that that perhaps addresses the question as to an acting General
manager while the Board is engaged in the process of selecting an interim. But the political issue
that General Counsel raises is also worthy of consideration. Madam Second Vice Chair, Director
Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to make sure that, since we're
in the public process, open process, to reiterate the fact that this Board of Directors has voted and
has agreed to have our applicants participate by Skype or Zoom, which really falls in line with our
whole mission of getting cars off the street, flying people, and polluting the air, and that we're
really doing our due diligence in terms of lowering our carbon footprint. And I think that should
just be notated because I think it's really great. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I think that's a very admirable point to make sure the
record clearly reflects that we are doing that. Director Menten, you are recognized.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I just don't want us to believe something without double checking. I
personally don't recall approving the succession plan. We could check further. But I don't think we
should take it that we did until that be checked. But just so-BARBARA MCMANUS: I would like to research that because I don't recall that it's Board
approved either.
DOUG TISDALE: And I may have misspoken. It may be that it's simply the General manager is
required to submit a succession plan to the Chair. And the Chair definitely remembers signing the
succession plan and again, as being something outside of the contract, but rather a separate
document that the General manager prepared.
And it may be, and I-- as I say, I recall looking at it recently and seeing that the Chair did sign it
and that the Chair was required to approve it, which the chair did. And whether it came before the
Board as an information item or an action item, I cannot presently recall. The information was
presented. I know that.
I know that the Board was advised of that succession plan by the Chair. The question is, was there
then an affirming vote? That I can't recall. Anything further?
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know that it all matters. I just want to make sure that we were on the
right page. That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Broom, you are recognized.
DIRECTOR BROOM: Thank you, Chair. It's not uncommon for a acting person or interim person
to be appointed as the permanent person. And so I don't see the difference between this, which is- and that situation. So I don't think we're going out of bounds by doing it that way.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I-- the Chair would concur in your observations.
Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If it saves some trouble, I'd be happy to make a motion that we approve
the succession plan and follow it for-- as-- for an acting General manager.
DOUG TISDALE: I see no problem with that. Is that a motion to approve the General Manager
succession plan on file, as recited by our chair a moment ago? That's a motion. There's a second.
Is there any discussion on that motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: I'm just trying to respond to Director Guissinger's request. I hear objection.
That can be expressed in a vote. General Counsel, did you have--

ROLF ASPHAUG: I just wanted to clarify for the record, we were talking about approving that
succession plan for the purposes of if there needs to be someone in the acting position between the
time-- between January 20 and when the Interim General Manager is chosen.
DOUG TISDALE: That's what I understand the motion to relate to.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Between January 20 is what you said-- is that what you said? Yeah, if we
need it. That's fine. That's great.
DOUG TISDALE: Commencing January the 21st, and continuing until this Board concludes its
process of appointing an interim General manager, is that your motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a motion and a second. Is there discussion on that motion? Director
Walker, are you speaking to the motion?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: That was a quick change. You're recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, my neck hurts a little bit from that. So I just want to make sure that the
succession plan survives the contract because there might be contracts with vendors that need to
be signed or other documents that need to be executed. And I think that we should make sure that
whomever's sitting in that seat has the authority to execute those documents. So that's why I'm
asking about this and not just trying to derail the process, although it wouldn't bring me to tears if
it were. So that's what I'm asking. That's why I'm beating this horse.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me seek affirmation from General Counsel.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Well stated-- I think it's a great idea to have this discussion. And so, yes, to it
to ensure that whoever is in that position, whether it's on a-- for one day or one week or whatever,
has-- is authorized.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. Thank you. Director Menten, are you speaking to the motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I am. Can we just get this on agenda, on a notice, have the document
in front of us, the 20th is not tomorrow.
DOUG TISDALE: I hear your request. The succession plan is a relatively simple document. And
I'm sorry. Directors are free to look at whatever they wish. I would suggest to you that the
succession plan was presented to this Board previously, full information and a copy thereof. It is
also in your Resource Manual, I believe, because I had to find it recently. And I think that's where
I found it.

So the succession plan is out there. I have accurately recited the content of the General Manager's
succession plan, as to the three individuals named and the order in which they are named. If you
have further questions, you could either move to table, or you could vote no on the resolution.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'll just made to table. I don't have that big of concerns right now. And
instead of making-DOUG TISDALE: There's a motion to table. Is there a second on the motion to table, Director
Guissinger's motion? There's a second. All those in favor of tabling this motion and this discussion,
indicate by saying aye.
ROLF ASPHAUG: To a date certain.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, to a date certain, which would be tomorrow, if there's a meeting, or
to January 7, which is our next scheduled meeting.
NATALIE MENTEN: January 7.
DOUG TISDALE: January 7. So a motion to table to January 7, all those in favor, indicate by
saying aye.
Directors: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed?
Directors: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. In the Chair's opinion, the nays have it. The motion fails. Anything
further on the motion? Director Lewis, no, the motion to table is over. Director Lewis, on the main
motion to approve Director Guissinger's motion for approval of the succession plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. I have a question of clarity. How-- so if this is that interim for the interim,
how are we dealing with compensation for Mike Meter, Mr. Ford, or Heather?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's in the succession report. It says 10%.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, it does.
DOUG TISDALE: I was going to say, if I may speak to that-SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm not asking about the 10%.
DOUG TISDALE: The Chair recalls that the succession plan provides that if someone steps into
that position, that they receive 10% increase in their salary for purposes of serving in that
succession position for an acting period, as acting General manager.

SHONTEL LEWIS: So you would then need to modify the document because it would need to
have the correct dates for the succession plan, because this is an interim for an interim. It's not us
appointing an interim.
DOUG TISDALE: If I understand the question, there are no dates that need to be activated. The
point is the succession plan says in the event of my absence from this position, I designate the
following people in this order to act in my place. And that would continue as long as the disability
or the absence continues. And the Board has determined when it will determine an interim General
manager. So I don't believe there are any changes that need to be made to the document, if I
understand your question correctly.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't think you do. But I don't think I'm going to get the answer.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I've-- believe me, I've been guilty of misunderstanding so many
things lately, I've just lost count. So I let it go. Any further discussion on the motion as presented
by Director Guissinger? Do we need an electronic vote on that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is not an action item on the menu-- on the agenda. That's why
Director Menten was saying that we should postpone it to a date certain because this is a little bit
out of order. So if we did a head nod, and then we prepared-- umm-- prepared something to go
forward at a date certain, whether it's there-- I know that already failed. But you can do a head nod
and still pass it. If we have consensus, we don't need to have it as a formality because it was not
an agenda item.
DOUG TISDALE: Good. Then may I ask-- may I ask at this time, is there any objection to simply
proceeding with a show of hands on this motion? And we can proceed accordingly. And if we need
to validate that further at the meeting on the 7th, we could do so. But in the meanwhile, I believe
the Chair reads the sense of the Board as being in favor of this motion. And the Chair would
therefore like to call for a vote by a show of hands as to all those in favor of Director Guissinger's
motion, as seconded by Director Williams, to approve the succession plan.
By a show of hands, all but one of the Directors present-- I'm sorry two. I thought there was a hand
up. But then I saw it go down. OK.
[LAUGHTER]
All but one of the Directors are in favor of the motion. The Board office may proceed in
documenting that further, should it choose, and present that on January 7. And that just says we've
got a succession plan. That said, are there other items to come up before we ask for a motion to
convene an Executive Session? Seeing none, I will at this point in time indicate that we're about
to go into Executive Session.
As I said before, we don't know how long this will go. We don't know if it will end with our coming
back in open session in order to have a recommended action item presented and voted on to

preview. If there is a recommended action item presented, it would merely be generically, if you
will, anonymously, to indicate that the Board chooses to proceed with interviews of designated
candidates as designated in the Executive Session at some future date. And we may have some
specificity on those.
We're looking right now at January 9, based upon the action we took earlier in getting a head nod
on that date. Therefore, if you are interested in sticking around, you are welcome to sit outside,
upstairs in the atrium on the first floor or elsewhere. But we cannot give you any assurance as to
how long this process will go and whether this process will conclude with simply an adjournment
of the Executive Session and a continuance until tomorrow evening, or whether it will conclude
with an action item.
I'm hoping that's vague and ambiguous enough that everybody feels sufficiently confused because
then I'm keeping my track record straight here in terms of confusion. So is there any other comment
that any other director would like to make at this time before I ask for a motion to convene an
Executive Session? Director Walker, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, you all know what's coming. So I haven't made any-- I haven't minced any
words about my displeasure with this process. I think it's unnecessary. I think it's wasteful of staff's
time. I think it's wasteful of our time. I think it's wasteful of the dollars that this agency doesn't
have. And I think it could have been handled a lot quicker if we had simply followed the process
that's identified in the procedures to name an interim General manager.
I'll make a motion. I'm going to make a motion relative to this discussion. I think that's appropriate
for this discussion, since we're talking about procedures.
DOUG TISDALE: You are in order. And you have the floor, Director.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So I move to end the current process of seeking an interim General
manager through solicitation of applicants currently within and outside of the employment of the
Regional Transportation District and follow the process for naming an interim General manager
as described in Board of Directors documentation on process for hiring transitioning-- for
hiring/transitioning to a new General manager.
That's section 3, first bullet point and second bullet point and section 4, first bullet point. I can read
those, if you want. But it was in the document I sent to all Board members to Miss McManus last
night. So that's my motion.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a motion. Is there a second to the motion? Is there a second to the
motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a second to the motion. So Dr. Walker has made a motion. Director
Lewis has seconded the motion. Director Walker, you may speak to your motion.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So this process has-- I'm sorry. The process of filling the seat has been
documented since 2010. It's been used once before successfully after a previous General manager
had been seated. So we've used it once.
And I think it was a solid process. I think we expanded it at that time because the GM at that time,
the person who was selected as interim GM, wasn't hand selected. The person was-- it was Mr.
Genova. He was selected through a competitive process. It was internal.
I think it speaks well of the Board to have the faith in its staff. That shows that we can get our
business done with internal existing staff. Other-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me. Other private
sector agencies have announced an interim GM or a permanent GM the same day that a current
GM has left employment, or at least the CEO position.
Regional Transportation District in San Joaquin lost their General manager earlier in December.
And they had already started negotiations with an internal-- for the new CEO to fill that position
within a week after the CEO announced her resignation. I don't know why we're going through
this process and putting our staff, putting our stakeholders through these exercises when we have
a process in place that worked well before and can work well again.
I think our attention is better suited, and our staff's attention's better suited to dealing with the
process-- with the challenges that we have before us. So that's all I have to say. Thank you very
much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Director Williams, you are recognized
on the motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'm happy to talk about this motion. I find the same motion,
interestingly enough, as an alternative number two in a packet that I have here. And I'm wondering
how this got in to the same motion, got into this packet. I don't remember having any discussion
on this motion earlier. But here I find it printed.
So I feel like there might be some stuff going on behind the scenes that allows Director Walker.
This second point to that is that normally when a motion, it says, is there any discussion on the
motion? And then the people speak in order. I noted that you called directly on Director Walker to
speak to his motion before anybody else. So that's two reasons that I think that this is outside of
the norm.
Number three, I noted that except for Director Lewis, nobody was interested in seconding this
motion. And I think that Director Walker sent us all this information beforehand. And nobody was
interested in it then. So I'm glad that Director Walker has some very strong feelings about how this
process should go. But unfortunately, I think he's out of touch with his peers, with the needs of his
agency, with the riders. And that he is so involved in his own feelings about this that he is unable
to function properly. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director, I'm going to ask you, if you can, just please-- Director Williams,
personal comments like that, I would ask that we try to avoid in terms of any Director, as to anyone.

I will-- and it's unfortunate that she's left the room. But I will point out it is the custom always to
acknowledge the movant to speak to the motion. That is always done, without exception. It is the
procedure under Robert's Rules. It is common civility. Director Broom.
DIRECTOR BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Mr. Walker's position was my position a month ago
when we talked about how we were going to proceed with this. But the Board made the decision
to go outside and to solicit candidates. And so it would make us look ridiculous now to change this
process at this point in time. So that's why I didn't vote to support this. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. It's a question for our General Counsel. This seems to be
a motion to reconsider a Board prior action not brought by a member of the prevailing side and
not timely. Is that correct?
ROLF ASPHAUG: It could perhaps be viewed as such. This is Rolph Asphaug. But it isn't in the
same meeting. And it's-- the motion, as I saw it, was-- stated, I move to end the current process
and follow the process for naming the interim GM under sections 3 and sections 4. So it's not
exactly a motion to reconsider the exact same motion, but-VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just wanted to make a note that I really
appreciate Director Walker's intent. And I wasn't for going outside. I thought going through our
succession plan was appropriate. Just like what Director Broom has mentioned, I think that now
that we have the Board decided to go outside, then we're in the middle of that process. And I don't
want to demean our credibility and our reputation and our trust to our community and certainly to
the people that put forth the effort to participate in the selection process-- and for our staff. So I
think it's time to finish the business and get right into Executive Session and hopefully conclude
things this evening and move forward. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Chair is going to recognize the
Executive Manager of the Board for a comment at this point.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I just want to point out that if there is a process in place that we've
used before, we always add that as an alternative to an amendment and a Board action. So that
alternative was going to be in there based on Board process. Director Walker did bring it up in the
Executive committee meeting, although there wasn't a vote or a consensus taken on it. I just wanted
the record to note that it was put in by the Board office based on our normal process.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms McManus. And we all understand that to be the
case. Director Walker, you are recognized. Oh, did you wish to withdraw? All right. Director
Lewis, you are recognized.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I would like to acknowledge Director Walker. Like you, I
shared a desire to not go externally and to put forth an interim because I think it's really important
to the stability of this agency, like Director Broom. So I was actually really interested in the
discussion.
Like Director Broom, I think we have gotten quite far down this process. And so I'll continue to
be committed to it. But I will say that I do think it takes away time for staff. It takes away time for
us to really be able to prioritize making sure our buses and trains are showing up for our riders and
our constituents. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. The Chair will note that the Chair was
similarly a negative vote on the process that was raised on December 3, which was also brought
up at the last minute, which is fine. The Board approved it by a vote of 8. And so I stand in support
of and following that process.
I recognize and welcome the opportunity to speak about it because it is an expensive and timeconsuming process. Nonetheless, I have to say it is the process that the Board adopted. And while
this Chair sits in the chair position, the Chair feels duty bound to support the process that the Board
has undertaken and would therefore be reluctantly but nonetheless opposed to the motion. Dr.
Walker, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: So Thank you all for your comments. I do appreciate the discussion that I've had
with some of you, even if we've been on different sides of this issue. I do respect the process. I
will respect the process and will participate as much as my time allows me to participate. But there
are a lot of unknowns in this process.
I don't think it was developed as fully as it should be or as it should have been. But it's-- I had to
say my piece. And that's because I do believe strongly. And as a bus rider, as a train rider, as a
consumer of this product that the agency puts out for the last 18-- yeah, last 18 years, I have a
strong stake in this. And next year I'll be back to being a bus rider and train rider only.
So that's-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me. So, yeah, I am involved in my-- I am wrapped up in
my feelings, and rightly so, as everybody should be. But anyway, so I'll tell you what. I'll withdraw
the motion. But I'm glad we had the discussion. I will fully support the motion the way that the
Board is going and participating, like I said, as fully as I can. So motion withdrawn.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you, Director. We need the consent of the second in order to
withdraw the motion. Does the second consent? All right, Director Lewis has indicated her consent
to the withdrawal of the motion. And she is the second, and therefore without further discussion,
the motion as made by Director Walker is withdrawn.
We then turn, at last, to the Chair's request for a motion to enter into the Executive Session.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.

DOUG TISDALE: And just because the State of Colorado requires that there be a legal record
made, I'll finish it. But I'll come back to Director Williams as the movant. But we will ask for a
motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose of the discussion of consideration of
candidates for the position of interim General manager and chief Executive officer and possible
identification of preliminary candidates pursuant to Colorado revised statute section 24-6402(4)(f)(I), which addresses personnel matters and also for further conferences with legal Counsel
regarding Colorado revised statute section 24-6-402(3.5). I understand have a motion for Director
Williams to that effect.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have a second from the Treasurer. Director Cook has seconded that
motion. So for the sake of the record, Director Williams is the movant, and Director Cook is the
second. We are ready to proceed to vote on entering into Executive Session.
Do I need an electronic vote? All those in favor of entering into Executive Session please indicate
by saying aye.
Directors: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. Therefore,
as of 6:50 PM mountain standard time, we will be requesting that all members of the public or the
RTD staff who are not permitted to be present in the room during the Executive Session, which
essentially will be Board office staff and General Counsel and Deputy General Counsel and, of
course, to the extent needed, security, will be present during that discussion. Before we begin the
discussion and Executive Session, we will take a five-minute recess.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: I understand that. Thank you. We stand in recess for five minutes. Now, Troy.
And our next item is agenda item number four, recommended action. And I believe for the sake of
the record, it is noted as Action Item 4063. But I will advise that in any event, this is a
recommended action stated as follows.
The selection committee of the whole for interim General manager presents to the RTD Board of
Directors a motion to proceed with initial interviews for those five individuals identified by the
Board during the Executive Session held this evening during the special Board meeting on January
2, 2020 as preliminary candidates for the position of interim General manager. May I have a
motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Williams is the movant. Is there a second?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a second from Director Folska. And that's Williams and Folska. And I
will state also for the record, consistent with the remarks that we made before we went into
Executive Session, that the interviews for these five individuals will commence as of Thursday,
January 9. That's one week from today, somewhat earlier than this time.
It won't be this late that they start. But one week from today, those interviews will commence. Is
there discussion on the motion? Any discussion on the motion? Seeing none, we are ready for a
vote on the motion.
Director Williams was the movant. Director Folska was the second. If you two would two please
vote. Then the rest of the Board may follow. We note that Directors Lubow and Whitmore are
absent. And we therefore do not have any vote from them.
The balance of the Directors, 13 in number, voted yes. So that motion passes unanimously. Are
there any other matters that any Director wishes to bring before the Board at this time? And I
would note if you have some specific questions about procedure, obviously you may ask that
question now because we are in open session and we can do that. If you do not, we're fine, and we
can carry on.
And for the sake of the record, I will note a meeting had been noticed for tomorrow night. That
meeting is canceled. That meeting will not occur. The business was accomplished tonight in the
first meeting noticed. Therefore the meeting on Friday, January 3, that had been noticed will not
be conducted. Now, Director Folska, I recognize you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I don't know if this is the appropriate time. But I
would like to know when it is appropriate where these interviews will be conducted? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That's an excellent question. And the Board will be
advised, obviously, as to the location for the interviews because one of the purposes of the
preliminary discussion we had before the Executive Session was to talk about dates so that we
could secure the greatest possible participation of Board Members in this interview process. So we
will definitely speak to that very soon.
And we may even have that information available at our next Board meeting, which will be on
Tuesday, January the 7th. We like getting together so much, we get together every couple of days
now. Any other speakers who would like to address the Board at this time, any other Director on
any other matter?
If not, then I will note that our next meeting is Tuesday, January 7 at 5:30 PM. And I'll now
entertain a motion to adjourn this RTD special Board meeting of January 2, 2020. As of 9:15 I
have a motion. Is there a second? There's a second. Any discussion on the motion? Hearing none,
all those in favor indicate by saying aye.
Directors: Aye.

DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. The meeting
stands adjourned. Thank you all very much. Have a good evening.

