1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Vince Buzek, District J
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Troy Whitmore, District K
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Shelley Cook, District L
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Rosenthal, District E
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Thursday, April 21, 2022
REMOTE MEETING
12:00 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 818 7020 8671#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Vince Buzek
I.

Call to Order

II.

Public Comment

III.

April Board Meeting Agenda Review

IV.

Discussion Items
A.

V.

Monthly Government Relations Report – April 2022

Other Matters
A.

Reinstatement of Board Travel Budgets

B.

Post-Covid Meeting Expectations

C.

Board Retreat Summary

VI.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - April 26, 2022
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Land Acknowledgement

IV.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

V.

Retiree Awards
Recognized Quarterly

VI.

Public Participation

VII.

External Entities Reports

VIII.

Audit Ad Hoc Committee Report
A.

Audit Discussion Item

IX.

TABOR Ad Hoc Committee Report

X.

Finance and Planning Committee Report

XI.

Operations and Safety Committee Report

XII.

Performance Committee Report

XIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports

XIV.

Chair's Report

XV.

General Manager's Report

XVI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Coping Panel Budget Transfer

For the Board of Directors to approve a budget transfer of $6,000,000 from the
Unrestricted Fund balance to Light Rail Maintenance of Way for coping panel repairs
and authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter a contract to
complete repairs.
XVII. Recommended Action

XVIII. Other Matters
XIX.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.4.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Monthly Government Relations Report – April 2022

Committee Meeting Date:
April 21, 2022

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to the Board-adopted 2022 Legislative Program, the agency developed a Legislative Program
that serves as a guiding document for staff to pursue goals related to legislative and policy matters. A
Legislative Program serves as a living document that can be adjusted throughout a legislative session to
provide an avenue for Board adopted policy positions to be communicated and pursued by agency staff.
In line with the agency’s mission and vision established in the Strategic Plan, the development and
inclusion of the goals and actions contained in the Legislative Program are designed to make lives better
through connections.
It is important that RTD serve as a trusted partner to the region’s local, state, and federal elected
officials. To achieve these goals, RTD must be proactive in educating and informing the District’s elected
officials of the challenges and opportunities available to advance shared goals.
In furtherance of the program, the agency’s Government Relations Officer coordinates and develops
strategic communications to advance the agency’s legislative priorities and serve as a point of contact
for elected officials in the Denver metro region.
DISCUSSION
Included herein are notable Government Relations highlights at the federal, state and local levels since
the last Executive Committee meeting held on March 17, 2022. This report was prepared on April 14,
2022 and will be updated verbally as needed during the Executive Committee meeting scheduled for
Thursday, April 21, 2022.
Federal
On Wednesday, April 6, 2022, the Federal Transit Administration announced full federal fiscal year 2022
apportionments to transit agencies nationwide. The apportionments inform agencies final amounts of
formula funding that are available to draw down through reimbursement. The funding is generally
available for operating maintenance and state-of-good-repair projects and will assist RTD in reducing the
agency’s current $290 million maintenance backlog.

Packet Pg. 4

1.4.1

State
At the state level, RTD staff, in coordination with the agency’s state lobbyist, is closely tracking the
work being done by the Colorado General Assembly. The General Assembly is scheduled to adjourn its
current legislative session sine die on May 11, 2022. RTD is closely tracking and working to support the
two bills for which the Board of Directors has taken support positions:
• HB22-1026, Concerning the replacement of the income tax deduction for amounts spent by an
employer to provide alternative transportation options to employees with an income tax credit for
amounts spent by an employer for that purpose
• SB22-180, Concerning programs to reduce ground level ozone through increased use of transit
Additionally, anticipating that SB22-180 will pass, RTD staff will be working with the Colorado Energy
Office to coordinate and to implement a potential fare-free August application for Board consideration.
Further, staff is seeking feedback from the Colorado Secretary of State’s Office as well as from county
clerks within RTD’s service area regarding the advisability, for the Board’s later consideration, of
providing fare-free service on General Election days to bolster polling place access.
Local
RTD staff, in coordination with RTD’s local government relations contractor, continues to track and
participate in various meetings of local elected officials. On Wednesday, April 6, 2022, The General
Manager and CEO participated in a discussion with the Metro Mayors Caucus and presented information
regarding:
• The 2021-2026 Strategic Plan
• RTD’s labor environment and the Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Amalgamated Transit
Union Local 1001
• Budgetary considerations
• RTD’s commitment to environmental stewardship and collaboration to improve air quality

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.4.1

Packet Pg. 6

2.16.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Coping Panel Budget Transfer

Committee Meeting Date:
April 12, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
April 26, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to approve a budget transfer of $6,000,000 from the Unrestricted Fund
balance to Light Rail Maintenance of Way for coping panel repairs and authorize the General Manager
and CEO or her designee to enter a contract to complete repairs.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
In 2006, the Transportation Expansion (T-REX) project was completed through a partnership among
RTD, the Denver Regional Council of Governments, the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT),
the Federal Transit Administration and local municipalities, which widened I-25 and added the Southeast
Rail Corridor. As part of the $1.7 billion project, retaining walls were constructed and fitted with coping
panels, decorative concrete panels attached by metal fasteners to the top of the walls.
The original construction of the coping panels requires repairs for corrosion mitigation to maintain the
safety and integrity of the retaining walls and rail alignment. CDOT proposed a solution to install new
stainless-steel fasteners, epoxy and grouting to permanently rectify the corrosion issues.
In 2016, CDOT received an insurance settlement to complete the necessary repairs and engaged with a
contractor to begin repairs first on the I-25 coping panels followed by those on the RTD rail alignment.
After numerous attempts to complete the work, as well as multiple change order requests that were
denied, CDOT terminated the contract for convenience. In October 2019, CDOT paid RTD $4.1 million
to complete the repairs.
Beginning in late 2019, RTD attempted to complete this work in-house using internal labor and
equipment. Due to ongoing people power problems, weather constraints and other maintenance
obligations, this process has been determined to be ineffective as to time and cost.
Staff estimates, at a minimum, that an additional three years would be required to complete the coping
panel repairs using internal resources and has determined that the repairs will be completed more
expeditiously through a third-party contract.
DISCUSSION
RTD has expended $1.1 million of the $4.1 million from CDOT on coping panel repairs resulting in $3
million remaining in the unrestricted fund balance to complete the repairs. RTD currently estimates a
cost of up to $6 million to complete the repairs necessitating an additional appropriation of $3 million.

Packet Pg. 7

2.16.A

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact of this action item will be to appropriate $6 million from the unrestricted fund
balance, of which $3 million has already been provided by CDOT. The estimated unanticipated additional
cost of up to $3 million is available from positive budget variances in 2021.

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 8

