Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 11,
2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

October 12, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
October 11, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen
and Walker.

Director Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Chuck Culig, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue,
Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jeanette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, James Smith, Jim Starling, Walt
Stringer, Paulette Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil
Washington and Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Ken Burns – CAC, Howard Humle, Galina Leiphart, Andrew Murray –
Metro State, Bill Mosher – DUSPA, Sarah O’Brien – Mullen High School,
Terra Rose Puncerelli – Mullen High School, Nikki Ricks – Ricks Group.
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Updates
 DUS
Bill Mosher explained that as of September 30, 2011 the project is 48% completed.
The Light Rail Plaza improvements are under way, and the concrete vent tubes have
been covered in blue plastic to protect them during the remaining construction.
Hopefully by the end of October, the mall shuttle will have its own two designated
traffic lanes. Also, the Chestnut Pavilion will eventually be fully enclosed with glass to
allow for natural light to filter down into the bus facility. The Denver Union Station Gas
Line Relocation is complete, a new boiler has been installed so that the building is self
sufficient for heating purposes and we are anxious to identify a cooling solution. We
want to move Amtrak back by March of 2014.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 11,
2011
Page 2 of 5

Chair Kemp added that the Board of Directors and State Legislators from Longmont to
Colorado Springs were in attendance at a tour of Union Station today. Everyone was
very impressed with the work being done.
Director Cohen asked for a brief description of the ridership experience in the Bus Barn,
and asked if there would be restrooms and rest/waiting areas.
Bill Mosher indicated that there will be bus lanes on both sides of the primarily glass
enclosed central concourse and will be very well lit. There will be sky lights, seating,
leaning rails and 5 ways to get in and out of the bus facility. There will also be
ticketing, information, security offices, marketing offices, and restrooms. The space
will be very open, well lit, safe and accessible.
Director Malpiede inquired about what options were available for bicyclists to use. Bill
Mosher noted that there will be bike lockers, bike racks and elevators.
Director Deadwyler inquired as to how many bathrooms were available in the facility
and how many stalls were in each including how many were handicapped accessible.
Bill Mosher indicated that he could not recall the exact numbers, but that information
would be provided.
Director Tobiassen asked if there was any hope to install self cleaning bathrooms. Bill
Mosher explained that we are not doing that at this time, but they could potentially be
added to the surface level later.
Director Deadwyler noted the flooding the city experienced earlier this summer and
asked if there were any drainage issues, and who would be responsible for adequate
drainage for water.
Bill Mosher explained that we are raising the site significantly and are exporting very
little dirt from the site excavation. We are raising the site so that it will be taken out of
the flood plain. Also, various storm drain systems along the train track lines are being
dealt with. There is also a pump system in the basement of the bus facility should there
be water down there.
 DUS Historic Building Re-use
Bill Sirois noted that we received 2 proposals from two different developers last week;
one from Union Station Neighborhood Company and another from Union Station
Alliance. We are in the evaluation process, and have a multi-discipline, multi-agency
team that is reviewing the proposals. There will be an initial meeting this week with the
evaluation panel including representatives from the City of Denver, DUSPA, RTD and
outside real estate experts. We will then be completing interviews with the evaluation
panels and the teams the week of October 24th and then a public presentation on
November 3rd. A location for the November 3rd meeting should be confirmed by the end
of this week. We will not come to the Board with an official action recommendation

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 11,
2011
Page 3 of 5

from staff until we have the tenants of a deal that we are comfortable with, which will
most likely not be until the first quarter of 2012. The two concepts for both RFP teams
are for either a Hotel, or Retail/Office space.
 Industry Forum Recap
General Manager Washington explained that the day of the forum, he gave a brief and
unofficial recap. There were 240 attendees at the forum and some of those were not in
the transportation industry such as IBM, Motorola, Oracle, Panasonic, Sprint, Xerox,
Hewlett Packard, and again, these are companies not normally affiliated or associated
with transportation. Also, to let the Board know, we revised our unsolicited proposal
policy to state that when a conceptual proposal is received that we will evaluate that
proposal and determine if we should move forward to the next phase. If we do decide
to move forward to the next phase with a conceptual proposal, we will request a
detailed proposal. If that detailed proposal has merit, we can pursue open and
competitive process in terms of putting out a Request for Proposal without disclosing
proprietary information.
General Manager Washington added that with regards to the unsolicited proposal, we
will brief the Board on any developments at the Board Meeting on October 25th.
Director Tayer noted that the forum is a great program which will most likely be
replicated across the country because it is truly a model to be followed. However, it
would be very interesting to know what impact this unsolicited proposal would have for
a future potential ballot proposal to build out FasTracks. Would this proposal reduce the
amount that we need and would it completely take the North out of any need for
additional funding.
Director McMullen added that at the APTA Annual Conference, everyone was talking
about this unsolicited proposal. The hopes are high, and people are looking to RTD to
set the trend.
Committee Chair Bagley noted that he is delighted not only in the forum, but in the
possibility of the unsolicited proposal to allow us to do something that we were not
expecting.
General Manager Washington explained that we made it very clear at the forum, and
we continue to make it clear that we are looking for ideas for the entire agency. Yes,
we want to finish FasTracks sooner rather than later, but this forum and what we have
been encouraging really applies to the entire agency. All ideas that the private sector
may have we want to listen to, and this expands beyond FasTracks.
II. Other Matters
John Shonsey indicated that he wanted to update the Board about the Pine Junction
Park-n-Ride. Currently we are in the process of designing the new park-n-ride.
Preliminary Engineering design drawings have been completed and subsequent to a
meeting with CDOT we are entering into an IGA with CDOT in order to receive FASTER

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 11,
2011
Page 4 of 5

funds that were granted to us. Those funds amount to $960,000 to go towards the
construction of the project. We anticipate completing design in November and bringing
this back to the Board in March or April.
Chair Kemp added that before this meeting adjourned, he would like to un-mute the
phone to see if anyone on the line had any questions or concerns. Chair Kemp indicated
that he had disengaged the mute option and asked if anyone was on the line that had
been listening to this committee meeting. Chair Kemp received no response.
Committee Chair Bagley noted that he had breakfast with Arapahoe Country
Commissioner Nancy Sharpe. She provided him information regarding Arrow
Electronics. Arrow Electronics is a Fortune 140 company and it will be relocating into
the district. Their new Regional Headquarters will be located on Lima Street, just south
of Arapahoe. This is a major and exciting development for Arapahoe County and the
Region.
Committee Chair Bagley added that he had been asked to participate in a group that is
looking at Metro Vision Implementation. This is a task force and steering group for the
years 2011 and 2012 for the 2035 plan. They wanted to make sure an RTD Board
Member was able to participate and Director Bagley is pleased to be able to represent
the district as a member on this committee.
Director Deadwyler added that the APTA Annual Conference in New Orleans was
wonderful, and hoped that if anything like that happens here in Colorado, that we
would do just as well. The transportation and ADA vehicles were great, and it was a
fantastic experience.
Chair Kemp noted that RTD had great representation at the APTA Annual Conference
and there were several very informative sessions, particularly in regards to P3 type
projects and the conference floor itself was very informative. There were 17,000
registered participants, and a lot of valuable information was passed.
Director Cohen added that he attended Chair Kemp’s session regarding social media
and how agencies are using various forms of social media to connect with their
constituents. He congratulated Chair Kemp on a job well done.
Director McMullen further added that during hurricane Katrina Chair Kemp went to New
Orleans and drove a bus from the Superdome to Houston and during this trip he helped
build a home for Habitat for Humanity in the 9th Ward.
Director Daly noted that General Manager Washington spoke at a session labeled
“Public/Private Partnerships: Are the Public Being Served” and he did a great job
presenting our P3 program and where it stands right now.
III. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 11,
2011
Page 5 of 5

November 1, 2011 (Changed to November 8, 2011).
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:20 p.m. to the FasTracks Committee.

