2025-07-07
Performance Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good morning. Welcome to the July 7 Performance Committee meeting. We are
calling it to order at 8:30 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself
unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom,
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Can I receive confirmation about
whether we have the CART transcriptionist? I do not see one on my screen.
AUDIENCE: Yeah, they're going.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, great. Thank you. During today's meeting, RTD will be providing Communication
Access Real-Time Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access the service should
send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to access a live Spanish transcript of this meeting. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page. I would now like to call the role of the committee members Director Vince Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Vice Chair Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: And I am Chair Michael Guzman. For the record, I also see that we have been joined
by our esteemed Board Chair, Julien Bouquet and Director Kathleen Chandler, as well as Treasurer Benker.
Did I miss anybody?
All right. Let's move on to public comment. I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like
to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your
virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board of Directors at rtd-- Excuse
me. Rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. I don't see any hands raised. Are there any hands raised for public
comment?
AUDIENCE: No, Director Guzman, there are no hands raised.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. And we had previously spoken with the Office staff, and I was informed
that we had not received any emails regarding this meeting. Is that correct?
AUDIENCE: That is correct, yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Then we will close the public comment period and we will move on to our next
item. We have one recommended action on our agenda today, and that is for the 2026 General
Manager/CEO short term goals. This is for the Board of Directors to approve pursuant to the General
Manager and CEO performance framework adopted in January of 2024.
In alignment with the Board's employment agreement with the General Manager/CEO, the proposed short
term SMART goals for the performance period commencing January 1 and continuing through November
8 of 2026. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek. So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Is there a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have a second from Director Guissinger. Thank you. Before opening the floor to
Debra, I would simply like to remind everybody that we have a contractual agreement that requires us to
work with, in cooperation and collaboration, our General Manager/CEO to establish goals that serve the
agency for the term of a review period, a 12 month period.
Given the discussions on trying to make this process more effective and smooth, we have advanced our
calendar to work on these now so that we can put this before the full Board by the end of the month. The
goals are meant to be written in the format of a SMART goal-- specific, measurable, achievable, realistic,
and time bound.
And so when we're looking at these goals, we are going to look at the preferences that have been offered
by Ms. Johnson, what aligns with the Board of Directors' priorities that came out of our retreat earlier this
year, and move forward. The goal is to get this passed through committee and to the Board, and that way
we can continue on with the work. This is one piece of the entire performance framework. There is still more

work to do. But when we have this part done, then we can look at the other pieces and do a final approval
with all of the framework later.
In that, this is a bit of a negotiation, and it is a give and take. We have certain priorities we would like to see
done, and Ms. Johnson is going to bring her transit expertise and tell us where she will be most effective
and what's going to make her stretch during this time. So with that, I would now invite Debra Johnson, our
General Manager and CEO, to share any additional information she may wish to present to the committee.
The floor is yours, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Good morning, everyone. I'm Debra Johnson, General
Manager and Chief Executive Officer. As outlined by our Committee Chair, these short term goals are
supposed to be specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time bound. Recognizing we last convened
two weeks ago to the date, I received some very insightful feedback from a couple of members of the Board
of Directors, and I've had the opportunity to meet with, I would say, the majority of individuals that provided
comments.
And in doing so, through the course of those discussions in which I've had with the members of the Board,
I was able to incorporate certain elements once we had a discussion, recognizing the intent behind some
modifications to the goals. With that as a backdrop, if you look on package page four more specifically with
short term goal one that basically spans customer experience and welcoming transit environment
incorporated another facet of the goal.
And there's three sections of said goal that would be equated to 33% of the overall goal attainment in which
I will develop and launch by June 30 of 2026 a mystery transit customer program that will enable us to do
more or less pulse checks throughout the course of the time period. But more importantly, establishing a
baseline in doing this that gives us an opportunity to have mystery customers not just utilizing our transit
services, but actually being able to lean into the customer experience in which they've garnered by engaging
with frontline staff from the vantage point of getting help at the customer service center throughout the
phone lines and things alike in multiple languages.
And it's my intent to leverage this solicitation as we go forward. And so I appreciate the dialogue in which I
was able to have with Director Larsen, who put some thought into this. And as he and I discussed, this is
something in which I'm very familiar with recognizing that this agency, when I came in, wasn't doing
something of this caliber due to the fact of the adverse impacts from COVID. This is a great step in the right
direction, and I embrace this enthusiastically.
Moving forward as it relates to short goal two, relative to ridership, there were some conversations that
have ensued, but I believe that the critical factor here is for the Board to lean into this discussion,
recognizing where we are with our five year financial forecast, and what we have on the horizon in the near
term, recognizing the system boardings are at 3%. Next Tuesday, this body will have an opportunity to look
at our five year financial forecast in the course of a discussion, because there may be some decisions that
you all need to make relative to a trade off.
While I recognize the genesis of our purpose here is to deliver transit services, would not want to cut off
our noses to spite our faces whereby we do that, and then in the near term, have to do a reduction in force
because we can't support what we have put forward, recognizing our debt capacity and other obligations in
which we have. So that has remained at 3%.

As it relates to short term goal three, relative to reliability, quite naturally, for those that did partake in the
training session relative to our asset management, many of you understand the criticalness of asset
renewals, especially in an environment where we're delivering public services and we rely upon
infrastructure to get the job done, and more importantly, people power.
Recognizing that aspect, this goal has been divided into two sections whereby I've incorporated in achieving
system wide service availability for all the modes that we operate, i.e. Bus, light rail, commuter rail, and
complementary paratransit modes. Of paratransit, that is. And so with that, Mr. Chair, I will yield the floor
back to you. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. Directors, you've had an opportunity to review updates to this
packet. I will kindly ask you to raise your hand and I will call on you in turn if you have questions or
comments. I saw Matt, Director Larson's hand shoot up first. So you are recognized, sir.
MATT LARSEN: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Excuse me. I would like to mainly comment about the goals
two and three. I think with regard to goal number two and the 3% increase, I really think, at this time, it's
difficult for the Board to really know if that's the right number, given that we will be having some upcoming
discussions about the five year plan and some, I think, scenarios for how we manage the next year and
what the growth opportunity in terms of ridership can be.
I really think we should postpone a decision, particularly on goal two, until we've had a chance to have
those discussions with GM/CEO Debra Johnson and her staff about what really is achievable for the
following year. And I think that really we should give ourselves until September to determine what the goal
is and what the resource allocation is to support that goal before we finalize a percentage at this point.
Then on goal number three, I appreciate that and I support what's there now so far. I do think it would be
good to also have a part of that goal that identifies a target for the light rail on-time performance where I
think we've struggled lately. And I would propose probably a goal of around 95% for light rail on-time
performance to be added to number three.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Larsen. I just want to make sure I heard you correctly. You said
95% for light rail on-time performance?
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. I think that-- I mean, I'm certainly-MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just want to make sure I have the number correct.
MATT LARSEN: But yes. Yeah.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. So I understand your objection to number two. However, I am going to push
back very hard on this and say we are doing the work that we were asked to do by the Board. Early in the
year, we had a conversation about whether goals should come before the processing of the budget, or if
the budget should come first and inform the goals.
You were a strong advocate yourself about making sure that the goals were done prior to the budgeting
process. And although I understand the concern, we find ourselves at an impasse here. So I'm going to
suggest we continue forward and move this as a recommended action to the full Board completely and not
delay. Director Catlin, you are recognized.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to say thank you to Director Larsen for proposing these
changes to the goals. And I particularly like the changes to goal one. I know that we've talked about that a
little bit, and to strengthen what had been a really weak program due to COVID.
I know there were-- I've talked to some of our mystery writers, and I just think that having something a little
bit more established is really welcome. With regard to short term goal two, I'm also a little bit concerned
that we do not know, in light of the resources available, how we can increase that ridership. And I was
struck by the article a couple weeks ago that downtown Denver remains at a 35% vacancy rate.
So it's pretty clear that we are not getting at least the commuter traffic that has historically supported
ridership. I think we need to look at other ways that we could increase the ridership. But I just want to make
sure it's an attainable goal. But again, I wanted to thank Director Larsen for his suggestions. I thought they
were really good. Anyway, that's all I have. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Catlin. Vice Chair Gutschenritter, your hand was up next.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you very much, Chair Guzman. Yeah, I just wanted to echo Director
Catlin's comments on the first goal. Thank you to Director Larsen for putting that thought in and thank you
to GM/CEO Johnson for adding or amending it. Big fan of how goal one reads now.
For goal three, I'm comfortable with how it's written and what it is. For goal two, I share the same sentiments
around landing on a goal without knowing what the ridership is in 2025. So I think I would be supportive in
finalizing the verbiage of that goal now and having a TBD percentage.
That's one approach. I mean, I think the other thing is I'd be interested in understanding more detail in the
logic behind how we landed on 3%. I mean, I know you're looking at what the budget is, but as much detail
as you have to share on that logic, I'd be grateful in better understanding it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Gutschenritter. If it's OK with you, Ms. Johnson, I'm going to keep
going through collecting some Director comments, and then we can circle back to goal number two,
because it sounds like that's going to be our sticking point. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So agree on goal number one. Looks great. For goal number three, I
think my biggest thing is each of the modes that are mentioned in there, commuter rail, bus, light rail,
paratransit, all face different service availability challenges. And I think that it would actually benefit us to
have GM/CEO Johnson come to the Board meeting with specific targets for each of those things that are
different, based on the challenges that we've had and just break it up among those four modes.
So rather than saying 98% across the board, I just assume our Access-A-Ride has very different on time
challenges than our light rail has very different on time challenges than our bus, or is not on-time service
availability. So that would be one piece there, and I'd accept whatever GM/CEO Johnson, relative to that
98%, felt like was the appropriate number for each of those.
The second concern I have with that is we run a lot more buses than we do light rail trains, but the light rail
trains are the ones that get in the news when they're delayed because of how many people they carry and
the impact. So my concern there is that we might be underweighting the significance of service availability
of dropped runs when it comes to light rail or commuter rail, if we're running so many more buses.
So I would just want some clarity over how we're calculating all of those together. If we're saying 98%
across the board but most of our trips are in one mode, then we're going to, by definition, underweight or

ignore, to some degree, the other modes. So that's my concern there. For number two, I'll just reiterate
something that I think I raised earlier. There are two components to the ridership or boardings, really.
There's the number of buses we run, number of service hours we run. And then there's how many people
get on those buses each service hour that we run. We are running more service hours this year than we
did last year. That's my understanding, GM/CEO Johnson. That we are consistently increasing service
hours. The problem is, this year we've seen a significant decrease in how many people are getting on the
buses. To the point that, as I understand it, we're projected to drop in ridership on the order of 3% to 5% at
the moment.
We're down from where we were. And so my concern with targeting a 3% increase is sort of my concern
when I'm measuring my ability to lose weight. If we're going down in our performance this year, and then
we have a target of a 3% increase, the odds are if we hit this goal, we will still be down from where we were
in 2023.
If we drop 5% this year and then go up 3% next year. So I would say I would want to target this based on
the 2023 numbers, because that was our most recent peak. And then say, hey, let's do a 0% increase over
2023 and just try to keep the number where it was, recognizing we're going down. So I would want to split
this into two pieces, because I think that GM/CEO Johnson is doing a great job bringing back service, and
that's one component of boardings.
And I think that the question of how many people are getting on the bus or the train is less in leadership's
control, but it's something we obviously need to be worried about as well. So I would break it into those two
pieces and I would base it off of 2023, because we're unlikely to have an increase this year, it seems like.
Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Benker, your hand was up next.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you very much. At your last committee meeting, you requested the Directors to
send in comments, suggestions, and whatnot. I would very much like to see what everyone sent in. I took
a fair amount of time putting my thoughts together and sent them in, and I would like to have them shared
with everyone on the Board, and I would be very curious to see what everyone else is suggesting, because
I'd be more than happy to share mine with the Board. Hopefully others would feel that way too. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Without any objection from anybody, I would hope you would let me know. I have no
problem sharing that information out. It was quick turnaround time, Director Benker, and so Vice Chair
Gutschenritter and Debra and I received all of the transmittals we could prior to the deadline. I did get one
that was a little bit late, but we still shared that out directly amongst the three of us, so I can compile that
and share it out for everybody. If somebody does not want their information shared, please let me know.
But I think it's all helpful, so. Director Guissinger, your hand is up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair, and thank you to Director Larsen for the work he did on this and
to Ms. Johnson for, I think, some very thoughtful changes. I think these are looking pretty good. I share the
concern about-- I shared somewhat the concern about the 3%, is that the right number?
I would be OK moving forward with it. I'd also be OK if we waited to hear, especially given Ms. Johnson's
warnings that we have some big information coming up. I don't know how that affects-- whether the
September date is really a problem in terms of the budget. Maybe Ms. Johnson can let us know what she
thinks.

And in terms of Director Nicholson's comments, I tend to agree that we're going down. Almost all of that is
light rail. And I know that Ms. Johnson and her team are working on that. And a lot of that, of course, came
from the slowdowns. But I'm still hearing a lot of safety concerns, smoking of drugs and things like that. So
I'm hopeful that we can really focus on that and start to bring our numbers back up. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Your hand is up again, Director Nicholson. But before I recognize you, I
have other members of the body here. Director-- sorry. Chair Bouquet. Director Chandler. Would either of
you like to chime in at this point? Please go ahead, Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. I think there's-- I think one, if I'm summarizing and hearing it correctly, it seems
like goal one is by far there's some common consensus. And it sounds like the changes that were made
based on Director Larsen suggestions are very popular, and I agree with that. I think where we're getting
stuck is goal two is the biggest one that I'm hearing from.
And so I think that potentially some context in regards from staff about that 3% number would be very
helpful. And I guarantee you that Ms. Johnson will probably speak on this later. So I'll probably circle back
after I hear from the staff.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Thank you. Director Chandler. Good morning.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Good morning, and thank you so much, Chair Guzman. I agree with what's been
said. I think that the challenge we have right now is that all of these are being measured in the same vein,
and I'm not sure that they are the same. So I agree that we should break them up based on rail, based on
bus, et cetera. I also think that 3% goal may be even too high in respect to what is the trend. And I'd sent
in my comments asking for not just the trend of the last five years, but I think I asked for the last 10 years
to see where that trend line is.
Because I think, as Director Nicholson brought up, we could be on a downward slope-- not due to anything
else, because we are increasing service times, but because of just demographics, because of the society
in general. And we shouldn't put that burden necessarily on what's happening. And so I think a trend line
over the past, including a longer time frame, and then also breaking them up, would help me make a better
decision as well. So I hope you guys take that into consideration. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chandler, when you say breaking them up-- real quick, sorry. Do you mean
by mode?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Thank you. I just wanted clarification on that.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yeah. Because I think that, as Director Nicholson and others have brought up,
bus is far different than rail in reliability and also just on-time performance. It's just everything. And so I think
we need to give the benefit of the doubt and expect different services are going to perform differently.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Thank you. Director Nicholson. One last chance and then I'm going to turn it over
to Debra Johnson to be able to speak to this.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Yeah. I just wanted to concur with Lynn and Director Guzman-- or Director
Gutschenritter and Director Larsen that I think delaying the numbers for the number of service hours that

we intend to run and the number of boardings per service hour is reasonable, both because we'll know
more about where our ridership is and our demand per service hour is later in the year.
And, to everybody's point, we'll have a better thought on, OK, here's where the budget is. We will be able
to accurately predict what we want the number of service hours to be better based on that budget
conversation. So I would say I think we should set an initial target now for the number of service hours that
we expect to run in 2026.
And I think that's something that we can do. And I think that from that, you can set a service hour, boardings
per service hour goal to get to whatever it is, your percentage increase that you want to be and then say,
OK, let's work on the budget around getting that number and then have that conversation in September
and say, OK, we're going to finalize that number based on where the budget ended up, how much revenue
we expect to have, are we going to lose revenue. I do think it's OK to come back in a couple months and
say, do we know something different now? Maybe we need to revise compared to what we thought today.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Madam CEO, you have heard from everybody. It looks like number two
is the hot potato question. We can talk about goal three maybe in a little bit. But I am also interested in
hearing a little bit more about what we know about the boardings going up to 3%. So the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Just for everybody's edification,
we're talking about the percentage increase in revenue service hours, not relative to boarding. That would
be an output. And more specifically to Secretary Nicholson's point when he said we should use 2023
numbers, I would like to remind everybody that in 2023, we had Zero Fare for Better Air in July and August.
So it's fair to say that we can artificially do anything to increase ridership in the short term, but I think it
would be in everyone's greater interest to ensure that we could sustain that going forward, because we can
do those various aspects, but we're trying to create a new customer segment that would be transit, not
reliant, but make the choice to utilize transit going forward. So I wanted to offer that up in reference to that
comment relative to 2023.
More specifically, as we look at where we're going, we are in the midst of our budget development. And in
doing so, the team, we start with our five year financial forecast, because we have to ensure that we are
planning accordingly and recognizing what the Board heard, or I could say the Finance and Planning
Committee from our colleagues at the lead school of business as it relates to sales and use tax, recognizing
that 70% of our revenue does come from that source.
We are being good fiduciaries in moving that forward. I do have Todd Nikkel, who's on the call this morning
standing in for Kelly Mackey, our CFO, and Todd serves as our senior manager of budget. And Todd, if you
could come off camera and just speak at a high level relative to the conversations that we have had just
last week when I was posing the same question to you and the budget team relative to that 3% number.
I do know we're going to have a conversation next week-- excuse me, the week after next relative to Finance
and Planning. But if you could just give a high level in relationship to where we are and why, we are looking
at 3%, recognizing what I said at the outset about ensuring that we're not cutting off our noses to spite our
faces, I'd appreciate it.
TODD NIKKEL: Sure. Todd Nikkel, senior manager of budget. The issues we're facing right now in
forecasting for the five year time period is twofold. We have fund constraints, like we always do. But the

new constraint that we're facing this year is we have a debt coverage ratio of 1.2 that is in our fiscal policy,
of 1.2.
And that simply means our net revenue, revenue minus operating expenses, that net revenue number must
cover our debt by 1.2. And in order for it to do that, we're seeing a need to reduce our operating expenses.
That will impact our ability to do a lot of things that we would like to do, some that we probably even need
to do, and increasing service could be one of those.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Todd.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. We are in the Performance
Committee, so we'll leave the Finance and Planning for the Finance Committee. Just a friendly reminder.
So let's stay focused on the task at hand, which are the goals. Director Nicholson, your hand shot up
immediately. Please go ahead.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So, GM/CEO Johnson, two questions. What is the year over year ridership right now?
Or rather, I'll just ask the question because I was just able to pull it up. Am I correct in saying that our year
over year ridership, according to our audited monthly financial statements, is 6.2% lower than it was in
2024? What I'm reading here is that we're down 6.2%. Is that number correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: For April, I should say.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I can't answer that off the top of my head because I don't have the documents you're
looking at. So I could circle back because I would be remiss to answer that question without doing my due
diligence to provide an accurate answer.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I follow up?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Is it your understanding right now that ridership is down year over year?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So to the point that was raised, Mr. Chair, if I may, I would say that there has been a
decline in reference to the boardings that we have seen if we're comparing it year over year. But I can't give
you the specificity relative to what those numbers are, as I indicated in my previous response to you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: One more.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Last one.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Would you say that it is accurate to believe that we will see, at the same
time as that, an increase in service hours run this year as compared to last year? So are we on track to
increase service hours this year?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Committee Chair Guzman? Thank you. Secretary Nicholson, it would be contingent
upon the Board, but staff's recommendation would to be increase service hours relative to our August

service change. And then going forward in January, as you heard Mr. Nikkel say, we're looking at 3%
increase relative to operating. So if it's the Board's will, then I would say yes. But if you guys decide to do
something differently, then no.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That's it. I gotta move on. Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes. I was wondering, I mean, looking into next year, where I guess we have concerns
about our ability to increase service hours next year or possibly have to decrease them, and thinking about
goal two. If we were looking at both service hours and boardings per hour, would it be possible to have a
proposal that would, within a given amount of service hours that's budgeted for next year, include a
proposed configurations of our service that would allow us to concentrate service on the lines where we
think that the boardings per hour, we know that the boardings per hour are highest, and thereby within given
a certain amount-- with a certain amount of service hours, be able to increase ridership, even if that meant
that we might have to decrease service hours on some of our less efficient lines?
I was wondering if we would be able to see a scenario or projection over the course of the coming weeks
or months that would allow us to possibly have an option, I guess, to say, well, we want to do this with this
goal. Is that something that we would be able to get?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Thank you, Director Larsen.
Just for everyone's edification, at the Operation Safety and Security Committee meeting that's taking place
on July 16, we will be putting forward our service performance and monitoring standards, a revision of-- or
I should say a review of what was done previously.
Quite naturally, one would use a COA to ensure that we can leverage that going forward. But simply put,
that would be up to the Board to discern if you wanted to do a trade off relative to looking at the efficiency
of a bus route and a rail line.
And if in fact, there is a threshold relative to a certain boarding per hour, this body could decide if in fact
they would like to alleviate, or I could say eliminate the non-performing bus routes and/or rail lines going
forward relative to the monies that are being put into those. So that would basically be a policy decision.
Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Larsen, did you have any more?
MATT LARSEN: No. Well, I guess I do in the sense that, is there a way for us to see a projection of what
we think would change given a policy decision like that?
Because, I mean, really, that's what I would like to get to is seeing, is there a way within the budget
constraints that we're going to have for next year to get to an-- or at least expect to get to a higher ridership,
even within those constraints, by making some of these trade off decisions. What I'm really looking for is
kind of a way to see a projection so that if we're doing that, we have some expectations around it and that
we can update the performance goal too to reflect those changes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Larsen, can you be more specific? I'm not certain that I'm following you relative
to what you're saying.
MATT LARSEN: I think for the OSS meeting, if we wanted to change the thresholds for keeping lines and
things like that, in order to make that decision, I would like to understand, well, if we do that, would that
allow us to put service, more service in places where we do have the most efficiency, and would that allow
us to increase the number of boardings per hour on those lines so that we could make that decision with
some expectation of increasing ridership, if that makes sense.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. So I know you're using the term lines, but you mean bus routes as
well as rail lines, because we wouldn't just be taking out rail lines.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. So with that as a backdrop, there are some factors that we have to take into
consideration. We have to look at land use. We have to look at various demographics in reference to what
we see the population growth. We will be working with Dr. [INAUDIBLE] to get those numbers as we move
forward. And that's part of the COA. That's why we call it the comprehensive operations analysis.
And so if, in fact, there was going to be a short term iteration of that, I would really implore everyone to
recognize that that would be short term, because we have to do our due diligence recognizing that there
has been a lot of different changes that have come full circle since this agency last undertook a variation of
the COA, considering that it commenced prior to COVID.
And so as we move forward, yes, there could be something of that sort if you wanted to hone in and look
at the efficiencies relative to boardings per hour in trying to ascertain where we're getting the biggest bang
for the buck. I'll use the same example. Once again, if you have bus route AA versus bus route ZZ and you
only have two boardings per hour on one and the cost per revenue service hour is $100, that means that
each boarding is costing you 50.
But on the flip side, route ZZ has 100 boardings per hour, it's only $1. So that would be for this Board to
deduce what would be most prudent as we move forward. And staff could put forward those scenarios. I
have looked at numbers, and it's really interesting because oftentimes, just by virtue of the subdistricts that
the Regional Transportation District has, that there's often concerns raised by members of this body that
say they don't have service in their district.
So I really believe that's a conversation that needs to ensue amongst the Board members. And relative to
staff, we're more than happy to put that forward, but that'll be up to this body to deduce what might be most
beneficial as it relates to service delivery. So simply put, yes, we could provide that information because
I've seen it. And so that will be a discussion. It could be difficult, but I think you don't have to be disagreeable
when you disagree. But it's discerning what might be optimal relative to this body, providing I say direction
to staff moving forward. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
MATT LARSEN: Thank you.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger, your hand was up next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I agree it would be really nice to see by line and by bus route and all of that.
It gets back to the old family of services chart that we used to do, used to get to see what the boardings
are. I think that one also showed the subsidy. I think that would be very helpful. I mean, I think that in terms
of making the big decisions that Director Larsen is raising, that probably is best done as part of the COA
process, because all of that is going to raise a lot of concern and interest, I think, among the public.
We would want to go through in doing it that way. Getting back to just the short term goals. As I think about
it, I think there are questions around the finances and all. But if Ms. Johnson is comfortable going forward
with 3% today, I'm fine with that as well. I suppose we could talk about whether we change that in the future,
but I'm comfortable moving forward on that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Catlin, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with Director Guissinger and also with GM/CEO Johnson
that the appropriate place to look at that trade off analysis is within the comprehensive operation analysis.
And we started on that. I think it was called Reimagine RTD, and I was part of that subcommittee.
And there was a big discussion about coverage versus ridership. And as you pointed out, in certain
subdistricts-- in other words, mine-- when you have three boardings or three trips per peak hour in the
morning and afternoon that one region, that there's a minimum amount of coverage that the taxpayers are
asking for.
And I think in a trade off analysis, if you look at the pure cost benefit, you're going to find that you're not
going to have a minimum amount of service in some areas. So I guess we have to be cautious about it.
And just-- sorry to go on, but I do think that the appropriate vehicle for analyzing that would be in the next
iteration of the COA. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Caitlin. Actually, I came up through Conifer on my way back from
New Mexico during this week, and I counted the number of commuter rail or commuter bus stops from the
moment I hit the county line till we got to Denver.
And I think it's the CV that was running on the stretch that I was driving with my friend and saw firsthand
how large of an area that we are providing some minimal amount of service to and how desperately
important that could be for somebody who doesn't have a car or is unable to drive themselves from those
further back parts into Denver. So I have a great appreciation for that. Thank you for your keen observation
there. Director Bouquet. Sorry, Chair Bouquet, you had your hand up and then it went down.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm going to come back, if that's OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That's fine. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I have one quick point to make, and then I have a question for
GM/CEO Johnson. And the point would be that service in from Conifer or a Ken Carroll that comes into
Denver is service to my district. It's service to downtown. And so I think we do want to have question-- we
do want to address the idea of the importance of increasing service hours to play in those sorts of places,
even if we're not getting an increase boardings per service hour.

And so I do think that when we talk about separating service hours and the question of increasing service
versus the question of how many people are getting on those buses and trains, we should be thinking about
them differently, because Peggy's district does need more service, just straight out, whether or not it gets
more boardings per service hour. So I would really encourage us to split that 3% up as a sort of math
problem into those two components.
But the question I have for GM/CEO Johnson is, can you talk a little bit about the different types of control
that you have as GM/CEO over those two components? Because I assume you have a very different levers
to pull to increase service hours than you do to increase the number of people boarding for each service
hour that we run. And I just would love to hear you speak about what you can do to increase each of those
differently.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. If I heard you correctly, you're talking about increase in revenue service
hours versus transit utilization, am I correct? All right. So basically when we look at revenue service hours,
that's something that we're going to do with intention and purpose as we look at where we are holistically
with our budget, quite naturally because this agency is labor intensive and we need people power to do
that going forward.
So if anything, when you set a schedule, you're going to start with a primary aspect of developing said
schedule. From that, you're going to discern how many vehicles you have. From the vehicles, then you
discern how many people you have, and then you look at the supervision and the congestion relative to the
actual service delivery in and of itself.
So when we think about that holistically, we want to ensure that we are being good fiduciaries and that as
we deliver service, we're being most efficient with said service delivery. So on the flip side of it, we want to
ensure that we are not putting forth service whereby we're not getting a return on investment, but also
factoring in the service equity piece in and of itself as we move forward, recognizing the connectivity.
Because we operate a transit network, we have to think about the transferability as we move forward, where
are the primary employment sites or activity centers in which people are going to. So it's more or less like
a configuration of a puzzle as we move forward, discerning what might be optimal relative to what we
foresee in reference to the potential of transit utilization with somebody perhaps going to a higher institution
of learning versus medical appointments and things of the like.
You can have greater throughput as you look at the customer segmentation relative to somebody using
mobility devices. When you do a schedule, perhaps you need more running time in reference to those
people being able to board because you won't have a vehicle berthed at a station or a platform is long. So
those are the different elements that we take into consideration moving forward.
And then the transit utilization piece around that, utilizing the examples that I had is engaging with those
different activity centers per se, especially if we're looking at the customer segmentation, what might the
purpose of the usage be about, and do some promotive type activities around that. Is that helpful?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Buzek, your hand is up.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I think I'm the only one that hasn't said anything yet. But I thought that by
making the motion, I made myself perfectly clear. I support these goals as drafted and as amended by our
GM/CEO after input from Directors. When we set the 2025 goals, we had these wild-- where did these
numbers come from? I don't know. But now we've got some numbers that make some sense, and Directors
have worked with our GM/CEO and we've tweaked some of this stuff.
Like I said before, ridership is a very difficult animal to improve or increase merely because we don't own a
lot of the factors that go into that. We can only do what we can do. As I said, I think at our last meeting, our
GM/CEO put safety first over knowing that there'd be a tremendous impact on ridership. And that was part
of her short term goal for 2025.
So I really don't believe that Ms. Johnson is doing anything nefarious to make sure she passes her goals.
But I think that we rely on her as the consummate professional to help us and guide us in this regard and
not just lead us by the nose and say, here, just do this. So I'm a big fan of getting this done, getting this
passed today. Bring it forward to the Board. We need to move forward on this. And so Ms. Johnson can
today start creating the strategies to make all this happen. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. I guess for me, I don't think Ms. Johnson has any nefarious motivations here, but I
do think ridership growth is-- it's certainly been defined by the legislature as one of the chief things that we
as a Board and an agency need to accomplish, and I think that we really need to do our utmost to
understand what the trade offs are and the choices are for this coming year to increase ridership growth
and with understanding the budget that we're constrained by.
So I would motion to postpone a decision on goal number two in particular, but the performance goals in
general until we have an opportunity to understand some of the issues that are coming up in our upcoming
committee meetings, and to really get some more back and forth and deeper understanding of what choices
could be made for next year within the current COA to increase ridership. So I'd motion we postpone a
decision on this for July and instead plan on it for September.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: A proper motion has been made. I see no second. That fails. Director Nicholson, your
hand is raised.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. I'd like to make a motion to amend the short term goals to read-- for short term
goal number two.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. Before you make a motion, maybe offer your suggestion to find out if it is
something that can be agreed to with the General Manager/CEO. This is not a one way conversation. This
is a two way conversation. So that's why we're here. Let's have the conversation first, and then if it's
agreeable, we may not even need to make a motion. It may just be agreed to. I don't know. But go ahead
and say what you were going to say.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. So my suggestion would be that we amend the short term goal number two to
be to increase system wide boardings by a number to be proposed by the GM/CEO no later than September
30 of 2026 and approved by the Board no later than September 30-- or sorry, no later than September 30,
2026 for the period commencing October 1, 2025 and continuing through September 30, 2026.
So that would give the GM/CEO the opportunity to-- so let me actually restate the motion. My apologies.
Let me restate the motion.

To increase system wide boardings by 3% or a number proposed by the GM/CEO by October-- by
September 30, 2025 and approved by the Board by September 30, 2025 from the period commencing
October 1, 2025 and continuing through. So what that would do is it would leave the number the way it is,
but give us the option, give the GM/CEO the ability to propose an alternative number at no later than the
end of September, as long as we approve it by the end of September.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Just a restatement of Director Larson's motion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah. OK. I am going to call upon our Chair real quick. Please opine here, because
you requested this committee do its work and hand over to the Board a recommended action from this
meeting for the end of the month. The collection of Director feedback was received. The goals were
adjusted, keeping them within the SMART framework.
And I would remind everybody, this is a first piece of a larger framework that we have to figure out. A
mistake that was made last year was that we were not able to complete the entire framework. We got
caught fighting over goals. And that cannot happen again. So we're trying to break this down into
manageable pieces as we go forward. Mind you, we're still responsible for working on the framework we're
currently in for this review period as well.
So this is a simultaneous thing going on. I am at a pinch point. Right? So we need to make a decision here.
If we're going to delay this at this point, my suggestion would be then we revert back to the contractual
language. We don't discuss the matter again until the end of the year. I don't think anybody wants that.
There's been plenty of work put into this quickly. So, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well, first off, before I go forward with my statement. Was that a motion prior from
Director Nicholson?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It was a suggestion. I don't believe it's a motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. OK. If it was a suggestion, then it's different. If it was a motion, then it would have
failed due to a lack of a second. OK. So if I were to give my recommendation, I believe that, one, GM/CEO
Johnson has been more than flexible in regards to listening. What were the priorities of this Board.
Again, what we're hearing from the state is very reflective of what I believe we identified as our priorities
and what the GM/CEO has turned into our SMART goals. My recommendation for this committee is I would
pass this through committee. And again, it seems like the holdup is when it comes to the second goal. And
we're getting to a whole other area where-- which I appreciate the conversation.
But it's like, I feel like we're putting the cart before the horse with this idea of we haven't even seen an
updated COA. We haven't even seen what are going to be potential ridership ideas. And then this idea of,
hey, give us multiple scenarios and see which routes aren't performing. I'd be very cautious with that as
well for this Board, especially because this Board is currently geographically elected, just to be cautious
with that going forward. So my recommendation is land the plane.
I would bring this forward to the full Board. I think that the suggestions that were made, and again, the
feedback that was given, specifically Director Larson's feedbacks for the first goal, is shown and has been
updated here and I think it is an improvement. Where I'd be cautious between now and the 28th, because

this is what we are trying to avoid, as Committee Chairman Guzman said, is we don't want to get into a
conversation between now and the 28th of, I'm not happy with the 3%.
Here's a number I want to propose. I think this is more than reasonable. That has been presented to us. If
there's anything that you truly believe would be reflective of what you're hearing from your constituents in
which they are not happy with that goal two, I mean, that is one thing. But I just would be cautious with us
going back to where we were in January and just throwing out numbers there.
So my recommendation, lay on the plane. I mean, again, ultimately it's up to what this committee is. I also
want to respect the rest of your guys's decision, and we don't want it where the Board is coming in and
saying, hey, we're making all these major changes. So, I mean, I'm happy where it is and I'll respect where
the committee is at, so.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I don't believe I got the chance to receive any feedback about my suggestion from
GM/CEO Johnson of just splitting that goal into, to be clear, the two metrics that were provided or rather,
sort of, in the previous year's goals. In our current goal, we list the number of service hours is the way that
GM/CEO Johnson wrote it.
This many service hours, this many boardings. All I'm asking for is this many service hours and this many
boardings per hour, which multiplied together to be this many boardings. And I'm wondering if GM/CEO
Johnson would be amenable to describing the goal in those terms for this year.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair. So you said for this year, sir. I'm confused because we're currently
in 2025 and that's already been outlined for 2025. Are you talking about 2026?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. And so recognizing where we sit currently hints with the movement of this goal
development process to be July, hence I have 3%. We can go back and modify that once we've adopted
the budget to be more specific relative to what that 3% would equate to.
As I indicated at the outset of this meeting, we're in the process of doing our budget development relative
to what that may be-- and you heard from Mr. Nikkel, senior manager of budget-- as it relates to that. So I
can't give that to you as I sit here right now as we're doing trade offs. And then further to the point that you
raised about your amendment, keeping in mind that, pursuant to statute, we have to have the budget
available for public inspection by October 15. If we were to garner feedback, I don't think September 30 is
feasible.
So I would ask this body once again to decide collectively what it is we're doing, because I'd be remiss to
say that I'm slightly frustrated because each and every year-- this is the fifth year now, we're really moving
into the sixth year in which each time the goalposts are moved relative to having this conversation, even
after this body has adopted a framework relative to the actions taken in January 2024. So please excuse
my tone, but it's like it's Groundhog Day over and over again. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: To Ms. Johnson's point, I would suggest that we vote on the original motion.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am just writing out the list of names to make sure that I have an accurate roll. I'm
going to do a roll call vote because we do have disagreement. I don't know how people are going to vote
on this. So we'll go by name. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: No.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, for today.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm Committee Chair Guzman. I am also a yes. The motion passes six to one, the no
being Director Larsen. Thank you very much. I appreciate everybody's input on this. I did not say it at the
beginning. Director Larsen did provide very thoughtful feedback, and I do appreciate the work that you put
into that and your ability to follow up and answer further questions for the General Manager/CEO.
As requested, I will compile the emails that were sent in by all Directors that I received them from and that
will be distributed by the Board Office to all Directors of the Board. Thank you for the hard work. We send
the recommendation to the full Board. Chair Bouquet, I am passing this off to you, sir. And we will continue
the work.
Ms. Johnson, to you, I know this was a quick turnaround. I know this is frustrating from the end of having
to change calendars every year and do this work, but I really do appreciate the effort and the ability to lean
in and work through the Director comments one by one. We spent an hour of time going over what we
thought were the most relevant to the goals that were presented and discussing the others that were given
to us.
Vice Chair Gutschenritter received the information. Unfortunately, because of complications with schedules,
that meeting had to be moved and then canceled and then moved again. And so we were not all three of
us able to get there, but we were all three aware of what was being discussed. And saw the immediate
proposals coming back. To that end, chairing committees is difficult, and I thank you for your patience with
me as I learned to do this, and I think we have worked well together this year.
So to all of you, for your effort and hard work put in, I want to thank you. This is probably one of the most
difficult conversations this committee recommends to the Board, and it is where we need to lean in and butt

heads a little bit, and that's fine. It's also where we need to find reconciliation with one another and agree
where we can.
Even if we disagree on other things, we don't need to be disagreeable. So I just thank you for your
professionalism and for your decorum during our meetings. I think that's really important to tell all of you.
That said, if there are no other matters before us, I can certainly call for a motion to conclude. Director
Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Yeah, real quick, I just-- right back at you. Thank
you for chairing this committee and for your leadership and navigating this group through difficult
conversations. So thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I appreciate that. All right. As a reminder, the Board does not hold any
meetings during the month of August. So the next Performance Committee meeting will be scheduled for
Monday, September 8. For that meeting, the Performance Committee work plan includes items regarding
the General Manager/CEO performance of the 2025 appraisal, the 2026 goal setting timeline, which we're
currently working through right now, and the strategic initiatives for the 2025-26 performance year.
The quarterly performance discussion with the General Manager/CEO will be held in executive session.
However, please keep in mind that plans are subject to change, so September's agenda may be slightly
different from what I have outlined today. Part of that is we were going to discuss the creation of the goals
to get them ready. We're already doing that. It was on the work plan. So when this was planned, that's part
of the conversation.
Maybe what we will need to do is look at the framework for the current year. I would suggest if you don't
know what that framework looks like, refer back to previous emails for this committee. The information was
sent out with the RKL reports that we received and how we set up the framework last year, and I thank you
for your time. If there is no objection, I would like to call this meeting adjourned at 9:37 AM. Thank you so
much.

