Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 12, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
September 11, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair James, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker.
Director Cohen and Tayer arrived late.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover,
Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Brian Mathews, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez,
Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Dean Shaklee, John
Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Greg Smith, John Elias, Brenden Morgan, Robin McIntosh Jr., Richard
Rost, Ryan Hiatt, Eric Farrington, Gary Googins

Others Present:

Terry Bright, Dana Easter El, Kevin Fehn, Gary Forbes, Stan Gronek,
Steve Lewis, Stu Livensparger, Carol Smith, Larry Tenenholz, Stephan
Weinstein
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

Salaried Employee Pension Plan Review
Terry Bright from Rael & Letson provided the Board with a Power Point presentation
on the Fund Status as of January 1, 2012. Terry explained that in looking at Page 2
of the presentation, the actuarial values are going in the wrong direction. This is
because in 2011 the investment return was 1% versus the assumed 7%. He also
noted that the plan will be solvent for approximately 22 years which is 5 years
sooner than the projection in 2011. Terry explained that their recommendation is to

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 2 of 6

move away from a funding policy that limited the contribution made by RTD to a
percent of covered payroll. The problem with this is that in a closed plan as is
RTD’s, as the plan shrinks, covered payroll shrinks to the percent contribution would
need to continue to increase.
Director Bagley asked for clarification that if we looked at the last six years, the
amount contributed ranged from $2.85 million to $3.8 million. Terry Bright stated
that on an actual paid basis the range was $2.9 to $3.4.
He stated the
recommended flat contribution of $3.1 fits within that range.
Director Walker noted Terry Bright’s comments that if RTD maintained the plan as it
is now, the funding level would need to continue to increase every year. He asked if
there are any cases in which it could be less some years. Terry explained that their
projections are fairly static. They do show a small dip in about 15 years but then
maintains its increase. Director Walker asked why they are predicting a dip. Terry
Bright stated that there are two things that make up the $3.1 million contribution:
there is what is called the normal cost which is the cost of the benefit accrued and
then there is the payoff of the unamortized losses. This happens over an 18 year
period.
Director McMullen asked if he should be concerned that the projections now show
the plan remaining solvent for five years less than last year’s projections and if that
was unusual. Terry Bright stated that it is not unusual but is of some concern. He
explained that the issues are investment related more so than related to how the
policy is structured. Terry explained that because the plan is closed we have fixed
our liabilities but do not have a variable asset base.
Director McMullen asked if we could expect to see an improved rate of return like we
have seen occur on the stock market. Marla Lien explained that was a question for
the investment managers who were not present at the meeting. She stated that
staff worked with the investment managers to determine if 7.5% was a reasonable
assumption and this was an assumption that they felt comfortable with RTD
continuing.
Director O’Boyle commented that with the return on investment rate through June
being at 6.2% it looks like 2012 is going to be a good year.
II.

Recommended Actions
 Amendment of the RTD Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Plan and
Certification of the 2013 contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees’ Defined
Benefit and Defined Contribution Pension Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors amend the RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined
Benefit Pension Plan to change the contribution cap from the 9% rate to allow
for a maximum annual contribution not to exceed $3.1 million. Further it is
recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2013 contribution to
RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Plan at the actuarial

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 3 of 6

recommended amount of $3.1 million and Salaried Employees’ Defined
Contribution Plan rate at 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.
Motion:

Director O’Boyle made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the September 18, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
O’Boyle, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against.
Committee Chair James declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.



Authorization of RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”),
attached to the Board Report.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the September 18, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter began by introducing Brenden Morgan, RTD’s
new Manager of Debt & Investments.
Director James commented that he appreciates that the policy
explicitly states the Board will evaluate it every year rather than
having the review be optional.
Director O’Boyle asked for clarification of what the changes on
page 5, paragraph 4 meant. Brenden Morgan explained that
RTD’s policy states that no more than 3% of the Districts’
portfolio may be invested with a single corporation despite the

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 4 of 6

fact that Colorado law allows for 5%. Director O’Boyle asked if
this meant there was essentially no change to RTD’s policy, it
just not references the specific C.R.S. Brenden said that was
correct.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
O’Boyle, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against.
Committee Chair James declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

III.

Updates
 Second Quarter 2012 Performance Report
Jannette Scarpino briefly reviewed the Second Quarter 2012 Performance
Board Report provided in the Board Packet. She explained that while there
were 6 out of 22 performance measures in which the District did not meet the
goal, we are seeing improvements form the first quarter of 2012.
Director Tobiassen stated that he has heard we are having trouble
approving/finding mechanics. He asked how that is affecting our ability to
maintain the fleet. Bruce Abel stated this is an area that is in constant flux.
There are times when we have more vacancy than others. He explained that
this has historically been an area that is difficult to maintain a full head count.
Director O’Boyle asked if there was a correlation between meeting the
preventative maintenance goal (1.2) and the mileage between lost service
road calls goal (3.3). He also asked if there is a correlation, can we continue
to see improvement in Goal 3.3. Bruce Abel explained that there is a
correlation.
He stated that the stronger the Preventative Maintenance
Program the less breakdowns will be seen.
Bruce Abel took a moment to introduce the management teams of the
contracted services providers. At the meeting was: Stu Livensparger – First
Transit, Gary Forbes – First Transit, Larry Tenenholz – Veolia, Steve Lewis –
Veolia, Dana Easter El – First Transit, Carol Smith – First Transit.


July 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod briefly reviewed the July 2012 Monthly Financial Status Board
Report provided in the Board Packet. Terry Howerter noted that at the time
the Packets were prepared, the official Sales and Use Tax numbers were not

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 5 of 6

yet in. A handout was provided to all Board members with the official
numbers that is available in the Board Office for review.


Transit Finance Presentation
Marla Lien provided the Board with a Power Point presentation on the
mechanisms that RTD and other local governments in Colorado can use to
finance RTD projects.
Director O’Boyle asked if there was a blanket public approval for receiving a
TIFIA loan. Marla Lien explained that each TIFIA Loan comes out of the voter
approved debt authorization from 2004. She stated there is a dollar cap that
is limited by what the voters approved.
Director O’Boyle asked how we would accept money if a private foundation
wanted to make a donation to RTD. Marla stated that for the FasTracks
program RTD asked voters to forgive our TABOR Revenue Limitations for a
period of time so right now we would be able to accept the donation;
however, the TABOR Revenue Limitation does not go on forever. She
explained that on the Base Systems our Tabor Revenue Limitations are only
forgiven up until T-Rex is paid off. Marla also explained that how the gift was
made whether it is a cash payment or development in infrastructure it may not
hit against our caps. We really need to worry more about cash coming into
RTD that counts against our Tabor Limitation.
Director Anderson shared that she is wondering if there is a way we can share
in a PIF (Public Improvement Fee). These are fees that are charged for sales
within an urban renewal district. She thought we could share these with a
TOD district. Marla stated that we could share those but it would require us
to enter into an IGA with a local government for a specific project.
Director Hoy asked if an RTA required RTD be part of the IGA if a city or cities
wanted to develop land around one of our rail lines. He also asked that if they
did build a station, can they gift it to RTD without causing a TABOR issue.
Marla explained that if an RTA is created within the District they must inform
RTD. She stated that within a county or city they do have more tools to
utilize other than creating an RTA. An RTA is a tool that requires consultation
with RTD while some of the other tools do not. Marla explained that as items
relate to TABOR there are many factors to consider. Assuming we get no
cash and no property but some right of use that is not specifically valued it
will be okay.
Director Daly thanked Director Tayer and Marla Lien for the presentation. He
feels it is good to see all the tools in one document. He also appreciate that it
included the cons to the various funding types.
Director Tayer stated that the credit for the presentation goes directly to
Marla. He thanked her for putting it together. He believes that it is a great

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on September 11, 2012
Page 6 of 6

tool. Director Tayer shared that he was at a US36 commuting solutions
meeting and this topic came up with several RTD candidates. Director Tayer
mentioned the suggestion by Aurora Mayor Hogan to essentially create an
RTA or some type of scenario where Aurora would front the money for a
project and ask RTD to pay the funds back over time. He asked if we would
need a TABOR election to do that and if the IGA would need to include that
understanding. Marla explained that depending on the debt authorization from
2004 we may need to do another election. She stated that an IGA could only
be signed based on an election.
IV.

Other Matters
Terry Howerter shared that Jannette Scarpino and Todd Nikkel have received the
GFOA Distinguished Budget Presentation Award for creating an outstanding budget.
He stated that they do a great job every year, make great improvements every year,
and are an asset to RTD.
Committee Chair James mentioned that the Contracts Awarded and Pending Awards
section of the General Manager’s report now have a slightly different format. He
explained that in working with Brian Iacono and General Manager Washington he was
able to make a suggestion that was implemented to make those sections easier to
read. He encouraged other Board members to make suggestions if they see
something that can be improved.

V.

Next Meeting Date – October 9, 2012

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 6:34 p.m. to the Operations and
Customer Services Committee meeting.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

