1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, November 14, 2017
Board Conference Room
2:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Chaired by Tina Francone
A. Call to Order
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Francone, Committee
Vice-Chair Sisk, Chair Hoy, Directors
Anderson (via phone), Broom, Walker,
and Williams (arrived late)

Other Board members present:

Directors Menten and Solano (arrived
late)

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive
Manager Barbara McManus, and Board
Office Administrator John McKay

B. Discussion of General Manager's Performance Appraisal
Committee Chair Francone stated that the purpose of the meeting was to discuss
General Manager Genova’s performance appraisal and the committee’s
recommendations. She noted that that meeting agenda showed the possibility of an
executive session, and she asked whether the Directors felt the need to go into
executive session or whether they could speak freely.

Chair Hoy said he did not feel the committee would need to go into executive
committee but the possibility should be reserved.
Director Sisk agreed and said he would like to stay away from executive sessions.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether the General Manager had any objections.
General Manager Genova said he had no objections to remaining in open session.
Committee Chair Francone said the possibility would be reserved but noted that, if
someone felt it necessary, the committee could resolve into executive session. She
stated that procedurally the committee had evaluated the General Manager’s
performance, and the General Manager had completed a self-evaluation, based on
the core goals stated in his job description and the task goals set forth and
approved during the joint Board and Senior Leadership Team (SLT) retreat in March
2017. She noted that the General Manager had previously provided the committee
with his formal mid-year self-evaluation and had updated that document to reflect
his accomplishments to date. She stated that the committee also considered
surveys submitted to the Directors from mid-year and the end of the year. She
stated the committee’s consensus was that the General Manager had exceeded
expectations on Core Goals #1 through #5 and Task Goal #3 and had achieved
expectations on Task Goals #1 and #2. Based on that evaluation, she stated the
committee’s recommendation, on a vote of five in favor and two opposed, was to
award the General Manager a 4% discretionary performance payout. She noted that
her no vote was based on the amount of the payout, rather than the General
Manager’s performance grade or any other factor.
Director Broom asked whether the recommendation would be voted on by the full
Board.
Committee Chair Francone said that the full Board would vote and that she had
hoped for more participation from the rest of the Board during the review process.
She said the purpose of that day’s meeting was to socialize what would come
before the Board, which was the committee’s recommendation.
Ms. McManus said that, though the committee voted at last the meeting, based on
the conversation during that meeting and the committee’s previous vote, she had
put together the official Board report, which the committee would move forward
that day.
Director Broom clarified that the Board report would reflect the committee’s
decision and the Board members who were not on the committee would still be
able to speak to the recommendation.

Ms. McManus said that was correct and noted that the Executive Committee would
approve the recommendation and send it to the full Board, barring any unforeseen
circumstances. She stated that the full Board would receive the entire contents of
the committee packet, rather than just the recommended action.
Chair Hoy mentioned that he and Committee Chair Francone had met with General
Manager Genova the previous Friday to brief him on the outcome of the
committee’s recommendation.
Committee Chair Francone said they had spoken with the General Manager so that
he would be prepared to answer questions.
Director Broom asked General Manager Genova whether the Board could do
anything to help him do his job better.
General Manager Genova said that the Board supported him and the staff very well
and that he and staff had two-way relationships with each Board member. He said
that all of the Directors were comfortable talking to him and to staff about their
ideas and recommendations and suggested that everyone should continue forging
ahead with open, candid dialogue. He noted that he had met the previous week
with Director Broom to discuss ideas surrounding the R Line and stated that he
would continue to do one-on-one meetings with Directors in 2018. He said that it
was important to be transparent and present with the stakeholders and with the
Board. He stated that committees and community groups were good ways to tell
RTD’s story and to get input from stakeholders.
Director Anderson thanked the General Manager for his hard work trying to keep
the agency focused on going down the right track. She said she knew things had
been tough and was still disappointed with the G Line not opening on time. She
stated that she appreciated everything that the General Manager and staff had done
to see everything through, even though the cards were stacked against them. She
said the agency had received a great deal of criticism, but she had not seen any
wavering as they strove to achieve their goal.
Director Sisk noted that 2018 would be an election year stated that he hoped the
Board would continue to do the business of the agency and rather than politicizing
and making staff the subject of anyone’s campaign. He said that would mean
taking the high road in supporting staff and understanding that staff was
responsible for implementing direction given by the Board.
Director Menten said suggested that the phrasing of the recommended action be
changed from “Board” to “Committee” to reflect which body had made the
recommendation.
Ms. McManus said the she did not see any reason the verbiage could not change.

Committee Chair Francone asked whether a resolution would be drafted following
the Board’s approval of the recommended action.
Ms. McManus explained that the Board had adopted resolutions in the past but that
it was decided they were no longer needed.
Director Menten asked whether all respondents to the survey felt that the General
Manager had exceeded expectations.
Ms. McManus said the results were good but were not definitive as to whether the
General Manager had exceeded or achieved expectations. She said the surveys
were not set up to be as granular as the performance evaluation but would be
changed to mirror the evaluation going forward. She also asked whether the
committee agreed to change the language in the recommended action.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether a motion was needed.
Chair Hoy suggested the motion for the recommended action could state that the
action be approved as amended.
Committee Chair Francone noted for those on the phone that Directors Williams and
Solano were in attendance. She explained to Director Solano that the committee
was soliciting questions with respect to their recommendation on the performance
evaluation and discretionary performance payout and asked if he had comments.
Director Solano said that he wanted to read the recommended action.
Director Broom said he assumed that establishing a budget for the organization was
the General Manager’s primary function. He asked when the General Manager’s
goals for 2018 would be established.
General Manager Genova stated that the Board decides the following year’s goals in
March of each year. He stated that the General Manager was responsible for
presenting a strategic plan, which would become the specific task goals. He noted
that core goals remain the same and were based on the job description.
Director Broom reiterated that the General Manager would know ahead of time
what the next year would look like.
Committee Chair Francone said that the Board and General Manager were always
ahead so that the General Manager could put together a plan for the upcoming
year.
General Manager Genova said that the staff takes the General Manager’s goals and
work them into the annual budget and the longer-term strategic budget plans.

Committee Chair Francone said the committee would reconvene in 2018 around the
time of the retreat and would meet with the General Manager once again to assess
his performance.
Ms. McManus pointed out that the retreat in March 2018 would establish the goals
for 2019. She said that the General Manager would present his tactical goals for
2019 in the April 2018 study session and that the goals would be approved by
Board. Following that, she said the committee would take a break until mid-year, at
which point the General Manager’s performance would be reevaluated against the
2018 goals established in 2017.
Director Sisk said that the committee has been handled in an effective and efficient
way, and he thanked Committee Chair Francone and Ms. McManus. He stated that
the committee had previously been acrimonious and not productive and that more
objectivity had been established, which made the committee more manageable and
understanding. He stated that disparate thoughts had not been disregarded. He
gave kudos to those involved and said they were not afraid to make changes.
Director Solano stated that the human capital aspect of the agency left a lot to be
desired. He said that the agency’s budget was such that he could not see giving
the General Manager a discretionary performance payout.
Committee Chair Francone said that the work of the committee had been to go
through and evaluate the General Manager’s performance for 2017 based on the
core goals set out in his job description and the task goals that came out of retreat.
She said the review chart, which was different from previous years, was used to
graphically display this committee’s agreement or disagreement on the General
Manager’s self-assessment. She said that document was taken into consideration,
as were the Directors’ comments and the survey that went out to all Directors,
along with the committee’s performance review in which they rated the General
Manager as having exceeded expectations on six goals and as achieving
expectations on two. She said the committee voted in favor of a 4% discretionary
performance payout as a result.
Director Solano said he disagreed and stated that a public agency should not
measure the General Manager in the same way a private corporation would. He said
the General Manager was being paid a bonus out of taxpayers’ money and said he
had a problem with that.
Director Broom noted that the General Manager’s performance payout in his
contract was part of the pay package that would be reviewed as a part of the
contract. Regarding Director Solano’s earlier comment about the state of the
budget, he said that the budget was balanced and that he had never seen a public
budget in which all of the entity’s needs had been met. He explained that Director
Solano’s position would mean that the General Manager would never be given a
bonus.

Director Solano said that his position would be that employees, the backbone of the
organization, should get the bonus.
Committee Chair Francone thanked Director Solano for his comments and for
voicing his opinion. She stated that the committee’s recommendation would be
presented to full Board on November 28th, 2017. She said that she and the General
Manager were available to answer questions or take comments.
Director Solano said that he felt General Manager Genova did a great job but stated
he would be a no vote on the recommended action.
Committee Chair Francone asked Director Solano if he completed a survey.
Director Solano said that information was confidential.
Committee Chair Francone said that the comments of Directors who completed the
survey would be been included in the packet. She asked the General Manager if he
had any questions moving forward.
General Manager Genova said he had no questions but was happy to see that the
committee’s evaluation was aligned with his self-assessment. He stated that his
evaluation was reflective of the entire agency. He said he would share the results
with the entire organization to show that the agency was meeting goals set out for
them.

C. Recommended Action

• Approval of General Manager's 2017 Performance Evaluation
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General
Manager’s performance appraisal for 2017 as defined in the attached
completed General Manager’s Performance Evaluation Packet. The General
Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee is pleased to
report they are in agreement with General Manager Genova’s selfassessments and feel he has achieved or exceeded his overall goals for the
2017 Performance Appraisal. Although it has been a challenging year, the
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee
recognizes that General Manager Genova has met the “Exceeds
Expectations” for all of the Core Goals and one of the Task Goals and
“Achieved Expectations” for the remaining Task Goals set forth for
performance in 2017. Based on the consistent and outstanding performance
in leading the RTD and the overall compensation philosophy is to hire and
maintain top talent in keeping with the industry compensation of transit
leadership peers we feel General Manager Genova has earned a discretionary

performance payment of $11,400.00. This is an increase of 4% over last
year.
Committee Chair Francone said she would entertain a motion to accept the
motion, as amended.
Director Walker suggested a change to the recommended action language to
refer to the General Manager in the 3rd person, and the committee agreed.
Committee Chair Francone said she would explain her vote during the Board
Meeting.
Motion:

Chair Hoy made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the November 28, 2017 Board
Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 6 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Hoy, Sisk, Walker, Williams) and 1
opposed (Francone).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED COMMITTEE [6 TO 1]
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Walker, Hoy, Sisk, Williams, Broom
Tina Francone

Committee Chair Francone declared the motion PASSED.
D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - To Be Determined
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 2:45 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

