Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
October 28, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Carl Hall – Light Rail Operator – 20 years
Paul Deen Koogle – Property Control Analyst – 25 years
William Raymer – Bus Operator – 21 years
Kenneth Waller – Bus Operator – 29 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed Route Operator Winners
1st Place – John Johnson
2nd Place – Michael Duran
3rd Place – Paul Gaschler
RTD Fixed-Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Platte: Jon Mitchell, Ernesto Perez, Tim Wallace
RTD Service and Cleaning Winner
1st Place: Platte – Mark Buyalski
Private Contractor Fixed Route Operators Winners
1st Place – Abniger Ek Chan – First Transit Denver
2nd Place – Jose Ek Chan – First Transit Denver
3rd Place – Patrick Rhea – Transdev

Private Contractor Team Maintenance
1st Place: First Transit Commerce City: Dominick Hastings, Lance Newcomb, Fred Musisi
Paratransit Operator Winners
1st Place – Miguel Robles – MV Public Transportation, Inc.
2nd Place – Rick Isbell – VIA Mobility services
3rd Place – Janie Meadows – Greeley Transit
Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Rodney Montana
2nd Place – Christina Romero
3rd Place – Bryan Coy
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – Randall Lovegrove
2nd Place – Andre Leigh
3rd Place – Todd Woodward
Special Recognition – Snow-plow Roadeo
Single-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Richard “Chip” Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
2nd Place – Reed Sorenson and David Waite
3rd Place – David Johnson and John Prather
Tandem-axle Snow-plow Truck Winners
1st Place – Bob Alford and Leo Dowd
2nd Place – Pat Ortega and Guy Pierce
3rd Place – Lewis Dorrance and James Mohan

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker

GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 16, 2014

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Utility Easement for South Weld Metropolitan District for City of Dacono and St.
Vrain Sanitation District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a non-exclusive utility easement over 3,769 square feet (0.086
acres, more or less) on the Boulder Branch segment of the Boulder Industrial Lead in the
SE¼ Section 14, Township 1 North, Range 68 West, City of Dacono, County of Weld,
State of Colorado.
B.

Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy

It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve
the implementation of the Fare Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy.
C.

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract with Lamar Advertising of
Denver for the three year period January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 with a two
year option for 2018 and 2019. Under the terms of the recommended action, Lamar
would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $4.0 million in 2015, $4.1 million in
2016 and $4.2 million in 2017 or 2) seventy percent of net sales, whichever is greater.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.

Free Rides for Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.

E.

January 2015 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2015 Service Change package as revised and summarized
in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $969,000 and, further,
to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
F.

Approval of Budget Transfer for North Metro Sidings

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the transfer of $16 million from FasTracks Railroad Right of Way budget to a
project to construct additional track sidings (see attached) on the North Metro Rail Line
(NMRL). These sidings will improve system reliability on the entire RTD commuter rail
network. They provide for a more robust, reliable operation on the current North Metro
segment to 124th Avenue and facilitate the future construction of the remaining segment
to 162nd Avenue. Funding for the FasTracks Railroad Right of Way Budget is included in
the 2014 Amended Budget for the FasTracks capital program.
G.

Request for Increase to ACS Smart Contract (Howerter/McMurphy)

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to increase the Xerox
Transport Solutions contract not-to-exceed amount by $2,349,912 to a new contract
amount not to exceed $19,731,382.
H.

2015 Salaried Benefit Plans (Howerter/Sprague)

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2015 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorize the General
Manager or his designee to enter into agreements with the Insurance Carriers.
I.
Certification of the 2015 contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees' Retirement
Plans (Howerter)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors certifies a 2015 contribution to RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined
Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2015
contribution to the Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”),
which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment, at a
percent of each participant’s eligible compensation.
J.

Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement (Howerter/Scarpino)

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approves and adopts the 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

