1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
B
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, August 14, 2018
Board Conference Room
3:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Chaired by Jeff Walker
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Walker, Committee Vice
Chair Bob Broom, Chair Tisdale, and
Directors Deadwyler (remote, left the
meeting early), Hoy, and Mihalik

Committee members absent:

Director Menten

Other Board members present:

Directors Catlin and Solano

Others present:

General Manager Genova (joined during the
second phase of the meeting), Executive
Manager Barbara McManus

B. Review General Manager's Mid-Year Survey Results
Presented by Committee Chair Walker.

C. Review General Manager’s Year-End Survey
Presented by Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office.

D. Questions
Motion:

Chair Tisdale moved that a group consisting of
Committee Chair Walker, Chair Tisdale, and
General Manager Genova commence, by August
31, 2018, preliminary discussions characterized as
and understood to be a “tire kicking exercise,”
regarding the parties’ mutual consideration of their
options for an extended employment contract with
General Manager Genova commencing January 1,
2019 under the same general terms, including
economic, as the current contract with the General
Manager, and that the group report the outcome
of those discussions at the next meeting of the
General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee (committee), and that the
committee then discuss at that time whether to
submit to the full Board a recommended action
regarding a possible process that might be
followed for the authorization of a contract
extension in the event that the preliminary
discussions are fruitful, and that the Board
consider any such recommended action regarding
any possible contract extension authorization
process at the next Board Meeting, and, should
there be an affirmative vote for such an action
during the Board meeting, that the committee then
proceed to consider and potentially recommend for
authorization by the full Board the ratification of an
extended contract for a duration to be determined.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0
opposed. Directors Deadwyler and Menten were
absent.

E. Next Meeting Date – September 11, 2018 – 3:00-5:00 p.m.
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 4:40 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

