1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 26, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Anderson asked Director Lasater to lead the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Title
Director, District L
Director, District H

Status
Present
Present

Arrived
5:32 PM
5:31 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Absent
Absent
Present
Absent

5:32 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Absent

5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:28 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:29 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:24 PM

5:31 PM
5:29 PM

Paula Perdue called roll call. There were 12 present and 3 absent (Deadwyler, Folska and
Menten). Director James left early around 6:43 p.m.

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Bernard Celestin, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Bob Grado, Cory Granrud, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Brian
Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara McManus,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey, Pranaya Shrestha,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo,
Mike Turner, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood, Julia Yugel
OTHERS PRESENT
Lee Baze, Amy Bennett, Mallory Bettag, Matt Christensen, Janet Cogue, Don Cogue, Jane
Donovan, Boyd Gordon, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Erik Hansen – Adams County
Commissioner, Martha Harvey, Kimberly Ketiky, Daryl Kinton, Sean Lehocky – Commerce
City, William McMullen, Jon Mollenberg, Mike Newman, Shawn Prichta, Glenda Richey,
Ted Rutledge, Mike Salmon, Kenneth Shepard, Jeanne Shreve, Dean Simpson, Gilbert
Sisneros, Karen Stuart, Chris Taylor, Lorae Tracy, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Gaspar
Verdugo, Monte Whaley, Gary Widlock

IV.

Retiree Awards
Gilbert G. Sisneros, General Repair Certified Mechanic who has been with RTD for 37
years, was present to receive his award. AGM Bruce Abel and General Superintendent of
Maintenance, Dean Shaklee, made the presentation. Dean stated that Gilbert had the
highest seniority and had spent all of his time working on the 3rd shift. Dean also shared
that Mr. Sisneros was a Vietnam Vet and planned to visit Vietnam again.
Mr. Sisneros thanked RTD for the opportunity to work here and stated that RTD has
always been fair to him.
Additionally, the Board recognized John Shonsey, Senior Manager of FasTracks
Engineering, who also retired from RTD. The Board offered a special recognition to John
for all of his contribution to the FasTracks project and his active involvement with the
Board of Directors. General Manager Washington made the presentation and teased that
he referred to John as “Mr. Excitement.” Staff will be making a presentation later to John
Shonsey. John Shonsey graciously accepted this recognition. He stated it has been a
pleasure working for RTD and that RTD has changed for the better.

V.

Public Participation


Adams County Commissioner Erik Hansen spoke on behalf of the unsolicited
proposal for North Metro. Erik indicated that he had sent a letter to General
Manager Washington indicating support from the Adams County Commissioners
and Honorable Mayor Joyce Downing with the City of Northglenn and Mayor Heidi
Williams with the City of Thornton (Please see a copy of this letter in the Board









office). Commissioner Hansen shared that this has been a long process of which
he personally has been involved. He has garnished a reputation for calling things as
they are and there have been times that he has been critical of the process.
Nevertheless, he believes in giving credit where credit is due and he applauds
General Manager Washington and staff for staying true to their word. General
Manager Washington has been a constant force on moving forward with getting the
FasTracks project done. He is optimistic that we will complete the project. The
cities/counties that he represents, namely, Adams, Northglenn and Thornton, are
committed to moving this effort forward and are willing to look at contributions
over and above the 1% if necessary for the completion of the North Metro. He
thanked the Board for their consideration.
Bernard Celestin, current RTD employee, stated that he had joined the RTD family
about 4 years ago. He is running in Ward 2 for the City Council of Aurora. He has
also provided oversight for the Civil Service Commission and Human Relations
Commission in Aurora and has a history for being a strong advocate for the
community and transit. If elected, he will do whatever in his power to help make
RTD successful.
Former Director William “Bill” McMullen spoke about two things: First, he
congratulated General Manager Washington and ATU President Julio Riviera for the
outstanding job they did on securing a five-year collective bargaining agreement. In
his 8 years on the Board, the relationships between union and management have
improved and securing such an agreement is unprecedented. He is proud of the
RTD leadership and the Union relationship. Secondly, he commented to the new
Board members on their journey. He stated that it takes lots of energy and working
together on this Board to make those critical decisions to move the agency forward.
He referenced the APTA legislative conference in Washington that the Board
members had just attended and noted there is lots of work to be done. He
encouraged them to ask many questions and to learn everything that they could.
Gene Putman, Transportation Planner for Thornton, spoke to how disheartened he
has been especially over the amendment to DRCOG. However, he is very
encouraged by this unsolicited proposal and he believes we can work together to
get the North Metro completed. He asked RTD to look at the proposal favorably
and he promised to do everything in his power to get this done. He thanked
General Manager Washington for his efforts.
Amy Bennett from District N, shared that she is a daily commuter on route 116X.
She provided a petition from approximately 116 riders on this route of which 103
opposed the proposed changes. She anticipates this will increase the travel time by
about 15 minutes and that the fare cost will increase. She provided copies of these
petitions which can be found in the Board office and requested staff to consider the
impact of the proposed change to route 116X.



VI.

Martha Harvey, Englewood, stated that she had talked to the Board in an earlier
meeting where she expressed concerns on the lack of kiosks at the Auraria campus
for the disabled using the ramps. She stated that she had spoken to someone there
who had indicated power was a concern for the location she was indicating;
however, she sees the overhead electrical wiring for the trains so power must be
available. She believes not having kiosks located close to the handicap ramp
creates an undue hardship on the disabled. Chair Anderson indicated someone
from staff would follow-up with her.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee - Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee - Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee - Chaired by Director Rivera- Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee - Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee - Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight and Performance Management - Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee - Chaired by Director James
CDOT - Director Walker
E-470 - Director Tobiassen
ACED - Directors Solano and Hoy
Northwest Parkway - Chuck Sisk
Pension Committee - Director Lubow/Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Director
Bagley shared that the 1st quarterly online survey for the General Manager, along with the
supporting documents of his performance for the first quarter, 2013 will be sent to the
Directors on April 5, 2013. He indicated this will have a due date for response from the
Board members by April 19th. There will not be an extension to this due date so he
encouraged the Board members to please complete this survey. He reminded the Board
members that this is part of their oversight responsibilities.

VIII.

Approval of Regular Board Meeting Minutes of February 19, 2013
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve
the minutes from the regular board meeting of February
19, 2013.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler, Folska and Menten were absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of March 5, 2013
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve the minutes
from the Special Board meeting of March 5, 2013.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler, Folska and Menten were absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

X.

Chair's Report





Chair Anderson shared that the Board members had a very productive time at the
APTA Legislative conference in Washington D.C. from March 10-14.
Chair Anderson indicated that she attended a number of good sessions at this
conference including one on the transit ADA challenges and issues and how to
comply with the paratransit requirements. She noted that Director Dr. Claudia
Folska has been asked to serve on this transit ADA committee. She also indicated
that she had attended the PPP session where RTD continues to be recognized for
having the only transit PPP in the country. Chair Anderson recognized Director
Walker for being selected as the Region V APTA Transit Board Member Committee.
Chair Anderson shared that fourteen of the current Board members and two of the
former Board members participated in a tour of the West Corridor Rail Line. They








XI.

were very impressed with the work that has been done and how it has changed the
landscape for that area. We are looking forward to the grand opening.
On April 2nd, Larry Hoy and staff will host a tour of the North Metro for the Board
and approximately 10 elected officials in that area. With the recent announcement
of the technical merit for the unsolicited proposal, this may spark additional
interest.
Chair Anderson indicated that she attended the Jefferson County All Starts Industry
Appreciation Awards where RTD was recognized for providing value- add to
transportation.
Chair Anderson attended the DRCOG Sustainable Communities Initiative Forum last
week. Mayor Murphy talked about lessons learned for the West Corridor.
Chair Anderson asked Director Bagley to read something from a book by Supreme
Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. In this book, Justice O’Connor spoke about
the judicial handshake that each member extends to each other as an act of
professional courtesy before the meeting begins. This creates decorum of
professionalism and signals an agreement that they will work together regardless of
differences.

General Manager's Report









General Manager Washington shared they received only one response to the RFP
for the Downtown Denver Circulator (DDC) Vehicle Procurement. The staff is
evaluating this request and will look at other options such as piggybacking off an
existing contract if this does not prove feasible.
The Federal Transit Administration quarterly meeting was held March 21. During
this time they look at the projects that are federally funded. The meeting went
well. The big issue for RTD right now is the ASK that they took to the FTA
administrator that RTD receive the full $150M for the FFGA for 2013. The
continuing resolution passed and the FTA was given $1.8B for their distribution.
General Manager Washington and staff met with members of the City of Longmont
Council and Deputy City Managers. They discussed bus service and the northwest
mobility study.
On Thursday, RTD will present to the joint Transportation Committee at the State
Capitol on the innovative financial tools used for Eagle P3, DUS, etc.
RTD received the Unsolicited Proposal from Graham for the North Metro and
determined that it has technical merit. This being said, RTD will follow their
process for competitive bidding. They will accelerate the release of the RFP in July
2013 and will move more aggressively to get it out. The proposal is confidential
and conceptual and RTD will treat it as such to protect the proposer. RTD has
challenged the industry and private sector for innovative funding solutions and they
have responded appropriately. They would like to leave room in the RFP for
creative ideas.

















Questions and comments from Board members:
Director Daly asked about what we might contribute the low response to for the
downtown circulator. General Manager Washington stated he does not know but
suspect that it may be due to the low number of vehicles we are asking for this
request. Manufacturers in this space would like to see a higher volume for their
efforts.
Director Sisk stated that he is excited about the technical merit of the unsolicited
proposal. He reflected on how hard the Metro Mayors that consisted of himself
and Erik Hansen at the time worked to get the passage of FasTracks in the 2003/4
timeframe. He asked for more information on Graham. General Manager
Washington stated this is a reputable Canadian firm.
Director Lubow offered her congratulations and asked if it was possible using the
creative options to extend this into Longmont and end of line. General Manager
Washington responded that he did not know and this would have to be looked at.
He wants to leave it open. He did state that it is possible that the RFP will be
closed off before the results of the Northwest Area Mobility Study are known.
Director James offered his congratulations on the technical merit of the unsolicited
proposal. He asked General Manager to speak to the issues of the downtown
circulator and the mall shuttles. General Manager Washington commented that it is
believed the mall shuttle is too slow for 17th Street or use for the downtown
circulator; however, it still may be feasible to piggyback off this contract and do a
design that will fit our needs. This needs to be explored.
Director Solano commented that this is great news. He is optimistic about the
creative financing and the possibility we could get the North Metro completed
sooner.
Director Walker asked about potential issues if the RFP is moved up while the
Northwest Mobility study is still being complete. General Manager Washington
indicated they will keep an open mind and we do not want to muddy the waters
right now.
Director Hoy stated this is a good day and it is wonderful to hear the commitment
from Commissioner Hansen. This is a true spirit of cooperation. He asked General
Manager how long the RFP will remain open. General Manager Washington replied
60 days.
General Manager Washington commented that this has been a true team effort-the
RTD staff, stakeholders, regional support of the North and South and the private
sector who believes in RTD. He reflected on one of the reasons why private sector
will invest in public transportation has to do with the leadership and the perception
that Board support and staff commitment is strong. The private sector has been a
huge partner for RTD.

XII.

Unanimous Consent
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve items A-C on the
unanimous consent.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed with 11 votes in favor and 0 against.
Directors Deadwyler, Folska and Menten were absent and
Director James left early.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Bill James, Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
A.
Recommendation for Contract Awards to Krische, Gilmore, ITP and Sky Blue for
On-Call Construction Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award contracts to Krische Construction,
Gilmore Construction Corporation, ITP Construction Services, Inc., and Sky Blue Builders,
LLC, the four most qualified firms based on the application of the evaluation criteria, in the
amount up to $40 million for On-Call Construction Services. The work in these contracts
will consist of general civil construction including grading, drainage, utilities, paving,
intersection improvements, site work and landscaping. Funding for these contracts will be
included in the budgets of the projects on which the work is performed.
B.
Contract Award for the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish
Project
It is Recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager,or his designee, to award a contract to the low,
responsive, responsible bidder, Calahan Construction, in the not-to-exceed amount of
$3,472,630 for renovation and tenant finish of the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way (MOW)
facility.

C.

Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Fifth-Year Amendment

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to
Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle
Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment is for the
fifth year of a five year period of performance. The scope and fee are renegotiated
annually. The fifth-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $1,700,000 for a total contract
value to date of $9,622,000.

XIII.

Recommended Action
D.

Property Acquisition for the I-225 Project

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the I-225 Segment 2 Light Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with
all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
Motion:

Discussion:
Vote on
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve item D,
Property Acquisition for the I-225 Project.
Director Solano seconded the motion.
Director Walker indicated he would abstain due to a
conflict of interest.
The motion passed with 10 votes in favor and 1
abstain (Walker). Directors Deadwyler, Folska and
Menten were absent and Director James left early.

RESULT:
ADOPTED [10 TO 0]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen
ABSTAIN:
Jeff Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Bill James, Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

E.
Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Certificates of
Participation, Series 2013A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A.
Motion:

Director Lasater moved to approve resolution No_,
series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD
Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler, Folska and Menten were absent and
Director James left early.

RESULT:
ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Bill James, Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
F.

2013-2015 Title VI Program Update

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Title VI 2013-2015 Program Update to comply with federal laws,
regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve item F,
2013-2015 Title VI Program Update.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.
Director Lubow indicated she had read the document and had
a couple of comments pertaining to:
 Statement on page 15 of the report which stated there
is negligible impact. She has heard from a number of
constituents and feel there is impact.







Vote on
Motion:

Under the Title VI where it provides the ethnic ratio of
the advisory Board, she thinks it is a good thing to also
include the income levels.
Under community participation plan, this should extend
to riders in general. The communities feel their
comments are not listened to.
Major service change policy-She believes the 25% is
too high for a major service change
She will vote yes on this action.

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler, Folska, and Menten were absent and Director
James had left.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Bill James, Natalie Menten
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

XIV. Old Business
Director Lubow referenced the minutes from the Executive Committee pertaining to the
Censure Request. She noted this shows a lack of trust and strongly urged the Board to
further their teambuilding efforts using a professional facilitator. Chair Anderson indicated
she would discuss this with the Executive Committee.

XV.

New Business
Director Bagley indicated he had three items:
 Each Board member needs to complete a one-page trip-tic write up from each
conference that they attend and submit to the Board office. This should indicate
the value of what they obtained from the trip or conference. Director RiveraMalpiede asked for confirmation if a trip tic should be done on the APTA legislative
conference and Director Bagley responded yes.





The CAC met in Highlands Ranch with 14 of the CAC members in attendance.
These members came from across the city and attest to their interest in FasTracks.
This was a good education experience for them.
Board members are encouraged to meet in a 2-on 1 with CAC members. Roger
Sherman is coordinating this effort.

XVI. Executive Session
XVII. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

