1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 15, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 6:45 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
6:45 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:45 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Remote

6:45 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:45 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:44 PM
6:45 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:45 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

6:45 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:44 PM

Paul Solano

Vice Chair

Present

6:46 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:42 PM
6:42 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Martha Bembry, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Heather Ellerbrock, Eric
Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey,
Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Judy
McMurphy, Don Merritt, Alice Osner, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff,
Scott Reed, Susan Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster,
Cherie Sprague, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Judy Vialpando, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Dawn Bembry, Dylan Grabonski, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• January 2014 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 2014 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
increase of approximately $635,500 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 29th, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel commented that staff took a series of
recommended service changes out to public comment, as we
always do during the service change process. Staff continues
to conduct analysis and use the public comment process to
seek input and to get their perspective of the recommended
changes. As a result of that process, Mr. Abel stated that he
came back tonight with a recommended set of changes that
resulted from staff’s continued analysis, as well as
modifications and or additions that resulted from the public
input process.
Mr. Abel reminded the Board, as discussed last month, that
staff has begun a new process and has included a read-ahead
in the Board packet. Next May, bus operations will be moving

to the new Denver Union Station (DUS) bus concourse. Mr.
Abel stated that staff likes to look ahead, not just at the
current set of changes.
Mr. Abel stated that staff will begin seeking public comment
on the DUS changes starting as early as November but they
still have a fair amount of work to do. It may seem like a
small project because all we’re going to do is move our
operation from Market to DUS, but there are a significant
number of activities that need to occur for that transition to
take place. Many of these activities take place within the
service planning arena where a number of our routes and
schedules need to be adapted to the change in facility.
Mr. Abel stated that Jessie Carter would talk about the
changes that have taken place since the initial
recommendations. He noted that copies of two different
letters were distributed to the Board that relate to the 29th and
Welton Street Station and the recommendation for a
permanent closure of that station. These letters are also
available in the October 15th, 2013 Operations and Customer
Service Committee Agenda Packet. This station was closed
on a temporary basis to assess the impacts of on-time
performance of the temporary closure of that station. As
Jessie will point out, the final recommendation is to move
forward with the permanent closure of the 29th and Welton
Station.
Mr. Abel stated that the distributed letters represent
institutional stakeholders in the area that staff wanted to share
with the Board. One letter is recognition of the improvements
in our on-time performance, which is what staff was seeking,
with a comment regarding their hope that RTD will not allow
the station to fall into disrepair. In the second letter, the
stakeholders acknowledge the improvements in on-time
performance; however, they take a slightly different
perspective and say that the improvements are not enough.
Jessie Carter greeted the Board and noted that he represents
the service development department. He stated that the
January 2014 service change proposal represents about a
$635,000 dollar service increase. The recommended changes
are primarily aimed at improving the quality of our service,
addressing overloads, on-time performance, etc. Staff also has

several service decreases, the largest of which is the
permanent closure of 29th & Welton Station.
Mr. Carter shared that staff held 8 public hearings. Several
Board members attended hearings, as well as a number of
staff, plus 76 public participants. Staff received really good
input and because of that, they made several changes to the
proposal that was brought forth in September. Those
recommended changes include an additional trip on Route 86
to address on-time performance and overloads and cancelling
the proposal to move the 6:10 p.m. trip. Staff is also adding
trips on the 120X and making some running time adjustments
to Route 225.
Also, as part of the public hearing process and further
analysis, the Route 410 proposal was altered so that there will
be additional trips , but service will not be curtailed between
the Pinery and Parker Park-n-Ride. With Route P, staff is
proposing to add an additional trip on to it at around 3:15 p.m.
Also added to the list was additional service to the Longmont
call-n-ride, which is probably the largest service addition, at a
cost of about $55,000 thousand per year annualized.
Mr. Carter mentioned that he wanted to comment on the
letters that Mr. Abel previously mentioned.
He noted the letter RTD received from the Five Points Business
Administration actually characterized their disapproval of the
proposal to close 29th and Welton. The reasons that they
cited mainly centered on the impacts or perceived impacts to
property owners in the area; the letter doesn’t speak about the
customers but instead on the perceived impacts to property
values and the amount of foot traffic in the area. He stated
that the letter RTD received from Curtis Park Neighbors, which
is a neighborhood association that actually has some folks
who use the service on a regular basis, recognized the fact
that service had improved in terms of on-time performance
and reliability, but they are looking for continued efforts
toward making improvements even better in the future and
this is something staff agrees with as well. However, Curtis
Park Neighbors also noted the recent occurrence of violence at
30th and Downing and tied that to options that may be
available for the 29th avenue station, which is something that
is difficult to address from a staff perspective.

Mr. Abel opened the conversation for questions.
Director Deadwyler shared that she is very disturbed at what
has gone on at the 30th and Downing station. She stated that
the business community is really concerned about the closing,
especially with the recent violence. Director Deadwyler
mentioned that she has asked Jessie Carter to organize
another meeting. She noted that there is some confusion in
terms of mixed messages regarding the 29th Street station.
Some members of the business community are stating that
there is a possibility the station would re-open; others want
everything out if RTD is going to close the station after the
studies have concluded. Director Deadwyler wants RTD to go
down and talk with the business community to ensure
everyone is on the same page.
Director Deadwyler advised that she received another letter
today that was opened as a General Manager Request so it
could be responded to formally. She continued that the two
letters presented earlier are not the only letters that are out
there that are opposing RTD’s closing of the 29th & Downing
station.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked General Manager
Washington if there would be any comment on the security
matters later in the meeting. General Manager Washington
confirmed that there would be an update.
Bruce Abel wanted to add to Director Deadwyler’s comments
related to the infrastructure; in the Board report, staff did
indicate the physical infrastructure would not be removed at
this time but this does not mean a potential reopening of the
station. It is based on a request made by the people involved
in the Central Corridor/Welton Streetcar study; there may be
some other use for this infrastructure, pending the outcome of
the study. Therefore a request was made of RTD to keep the
infrastructure in place, rather than take it out to find that in a
year, the result of the study indicate that infrastructure is
needed.
Director Deadwyler thanked Mr. Abel for his presentation. She
stated that this is why she thinks that it is really important to
sit down and have more conversation with the business
community as they are very concerned about commuters
riding through that area. They are trying to attract tourism

down there and they really thought the 29th station would be
valuable to them. In terms of leaving the infrastructure, they
want it cleaned and maintained; the station has to be taken
care of so that it does not fall into a state of disrepair.
Director Deadwyler stated that the business community have
also communicated that they do not want the station empty
for years.
Mr. Abel noted that staff agrees that a) there needs to be
additional conversations with the business community
members so they better understand the intentions regarding
the station and b) staff also understands the need to maintain
the facility during the closure.
Jessie Carter reiterated that he will be scheduling a meeting
with the Five Points Business district as mentioned previously.
Director Lasater noted that in staff’s original proposal, they
talked about a reduction of service on the 410 route, but the
domino effect is something that he guessed staff discovered
as part of the public hearing process. While the 410 riders
themselves may not be the numbers staff wants to see, the
number of access-a-Ride riders was a real eye opener. It’s
amazing how many people in this area are highly dependent on
access-a-Ride to get into Parker for physical therapy, doctor’s
appointments, etc. He stated that a reduction of the service
would have caused huge issues.
Director Lasater shared that he was glad staff listened to the
riders. There was a meeting in Parker and there was a lot of
concern expressed about how to get home from the campuses
during mid-day. The kids were kind of stranded; they couldn’t
get home because it was commuter hours only. With the
increase of day time hours, it has helped to alleviate some of
these issues. Director Lasater wanted to encourage our PI
department to work with the town of Parker to alert every one
of the increased service in January.
Director Lasater commented that regarding the added P line
service first thing in the afternoon, while everyone thinks that
added service is fantastic, there is huge concern about getting
to Civic Center by 3:15 pm. Director Lasater noted that he’s
had people say that traditionally, they are getting to Civic
Center about 3:20 or 3:25 p.m. He wondered if the trip time
could be moved 5 – 10 minutes to allow that extra time.

Potentially, this may just be related to people getting into a
new habit; however, Director Lasater asked that staff please
keep this in mind and monitor the route to see if there are
people sitting there at 3:20 p.m. that just missed the ride now
will have to sit around for 25 minutes waiting for the next bus.
Jessie Carter stated that as far as the 3:15 p.m. time is
concerned, this bus will actually make the first trip out of Civic
Center and then go back and make a last trip coming out of
Civic Center around 6:00 p.m. With the amount of time that is
necessary to make that full round trip, staff thinks it best to
leave the current trip time at 3:15 p.m. to allow for reliable
service. He said that if staff finds that the schedule can be
adjusted they will consider it at that time.
Director Menten commented that she spoke with Robert
Ryerson and he mentioned that staff was working on Route
21. She noted that in the Board packet it states an additional
cost of $25,900. Director Menten shared that she thought
there was an anticipated savings associated with the rerouting
planned for Route 21, so she wondered if it was correct to say
that we have a little savings on the Green Mountain run but
additional costs because of the trip that staff has added into
the schedule.
Jessie Carter noted that in actuality, when staff further
analyzed Route 21, it was determined that there was no
savings with the rerouting; additional costs are due to the
additional trip.
Director Menten inquired if the additional costs were because
of Green Mountain schedule change.
Jessie Carted advised that initially, the route had a negative
number. There is no negative number now; it’s a zero.
Director Daly commented that the Board had recently changed
its policy about the process for service changes; this was the
first time having staff go to the public for feedback on route
changes before having Board approval. He wondered if staff
felt like this change was working.
Jessie Carter felt that from a process standpoint, as far as
getting information out to the public, the change was a huge

improvement. He thanked all the Directors for voting to
support the new service change process.
Director Lubow shared that she wanted to thank the staff for
recommending adding a Longmont call-n-Ride vehicle to handle
the overflow in that area. She felt staff should be commended
because they have been having ad-hoc informal meetings in
Longmont regarding this issue for some time. A number of
staff including Jeff Becker and Brian Matthews have been kind
enough to take part in these meetings which have been very
fruitful and frank, addressing the drop in ridership that
happened in Longmont about 10 years ago that has never
been corrected. Director Lubow noted that one of the current
suggestions came out of one of those meetings, and that staff
are being very positive and proactive. Director Lubow further
stated that when this route change request passes, if it
passes, staff should coordinate having a lot of PR around the
change because this is a very positive outcome in an area
where we have had a lot of public dissatisfaction over the
constant cutting of service. Director Lubow intends to work in
conjunction with staff to stir up some PR.
Director Hoy questioned if staff increased a 120X trip in to
town back in August. Jessie Carter confirmed that an
additional 120X trip was added back in August.
Director Hoy assumed that now we had to balance that out
with a return trip.
Jessie Carter confirmed this was the case. He stated that
when you look at the 120X route, you are looking at one of
our best express routes. It carries quite a few boardings and
when you look at going into fall, you get more and more
students riding and people jostling around their trips. One of
the things staff will have to be careful with in May is looking
at both the 120X and 122X in concert because when we
move to DUS that may have subsequent impact on both of
these routes.
Director Hoy wanted to make a comment on a couple of
routes. He has been talking with staff and learned that it
turns out if you check the 120 schedule and compare it to the
120X schedule, the 120 departs Wagon Road either 0, 1, 2, 3
or 4 minutes before the 120X shows up. Director Hoy voiced
his long running concern about low ridership on the 120 route.

He wondered if Route 120 was delayed just a few minutes, if
that might help increase ridership.
Jessie Carter acknowledged Director Hoy’s comments on the
120/120X route suggestions.
Director Bagley stated that his comments relate to 29th Street
station. It was his understanding that there is a cascade
effect through all the light rail trains that go along Welton.
That impact is from the 4 car trains and also maybe because
of signal progression downtown. He noted that at the end of
the line is it makes the trains run late 3-4 minutes sometimes.
He asked Jessie Carter to confirm this is correct.
Jessie Carter reported that this was part of the issue, but that
the biggest part of the issue is that it is a single track corridor.
Two trains can’t occupy the same space in opposite directions
at the same time. There is a limitation to the level of
frequency that can be provided on that single track section.
Staff has been warring with this issue since 1994, trying to
determine where the sweet spot is in terms of understanding
how much service RTD can put in the corridor. The only way
to improve on-time performance and reliability is by reducing
the amount of time that the trains spend in the single track
section.
Mr. Carter shared that when staff first looked at on-time
performance, we were stopping 34% of the time at Park
Avenue. After staff made that one change, the number then
reduced down to 17%. Staff believes that can be improved
on that even further by working with the City of Denver to
improve a new system that they put in place for us, which is a
signal system that has an RFID type tag. We are asking the
City of Denver signal group to look at that and improve the
reliability.
Mr. Carter noted that Director Bagley is correct. A delay of 34 minutes has an impact throughout the system; however,
there isn’t any part of light rail where if something runs late it
doesn’t have a downstream effect. What staff usually
expects to see and wants for our light rail is to see routes
performing at 91% or greater with on time performance.
When you have a corridor that is performing below 60
percent, staff has to do something in order to provide a better
service to that community.

Bruce Abel wanted to further reinforce Jessie Carter’s
comments regarding service having cascading impacts. Not
only is the performance in the Welton Corridor improving, but
our system is so tied together that when we improve service
on the Welton Corridor, we are improving service throughout
the system.
Chair Anderson stated that she felt her comments might be
too late to impact January 2014 service changes, but she
hoped staff got her email regarding the 52 route and the large
complex on Carr Street that’s located just a few blocks down.
Chair Anderson noted that she wanted to leave the issue in
staff’s hands and hope they can come up with a good solution
down the road.
Bruce Abel advised Chair Anderson that staff would not be
able to incorporate changes on the 52 route into the January
service changes but confirmed staff did receive Chair
Anderson’s email and will review her suggestion as part of the
May changes.
Director Sisk noted that everyone is well aware of the
situation in Lyons and that any schedule changes for that area
would be meaningless right now. Director Sisk shared that
staff did a great job of getting Nederland up and running, but
that Lyons is a different story. Director Sisk wondered how
we address the transit needs right now for the people in
Lyons.
Bruce Abel responded that as previously discussed with the
Board, as a result of the flooding, staff did work with
Nederland to provide service through the back door. RTD was
able to get that service up about a week after the flood. Staff
worked with the Colorado Highway Patrol (CHP) for a limited
time; there was a partial opening of Highway 119 between
Boulder and Nederland. There is full service in Nederland now
that Highway 119 has reopened. Staff is in constant contact
with the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and
CHP as it relates to the City of Lyons. The last update staff
received is that there is still a considerable amount of work
that remains to be done. There is an expectation of
somewhere between November 1 and November 9 where it is
believed we can resume some service to Lyons; if CDOT and

CHP are able to move up their timeline, we can then move up
our current timeline.
Director Sisk noted that he really appreciated staff’s reaction
to getting Nederland service back in place. Director Sisk knew
that Bruce Abel took a personal interest in the situation. With
that being said, Director Sisk shared that he would really like
staff to not use CDOT or CHP to talk with Lyons; he
encouraged that staff should talk directly with Lyons and find
out how we can help them. Being proactive for Lyons is an
opportunity for RTD to do the right thing.
General Manager Washington noted that staff will speak
directly with Lyons, just like they did with the Nederland
Mayor; however, there are still a number of things that need
to be coordinated with CDOT and CHP and these efforts will
be done simultaneously
Director Menten wanted to point out something that needed to
be corrected for the record. Under attachment B, page 1, the
Civic Center public hearing held on the 19th was held at 12:00
p.m., not 6:00 p.m.
Chair Anderson commented that she wanted to thank Bruce
Abel for working with Jefferson County commissioners on
getting van pooling for the Coal Creek Canyon area. She
asked for an update on the status.
Bruce Abel noted that the contact has been made and
conversations have begun but there was no update since last
Friday.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

• Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that
free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military
should be extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2013
to December 31, 2014. Utilization has been minimal to date and this
extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the October 29th, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Lubow Seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed explained that since 2006, the Board of Directors
have extended a provision of service to the active members of
the military that are in uniform or can present a valid military
ID allowing them to ride any RTD service free of charge. Staff
is recommending extending this service through 2014 with no
changes. Director Walker noted that a while back he had a
question from a gentleman who inquired about free fares for
retired military personnel. Director Walker wondered if that is
being considered now and if it was to be a part of the policy
the Board is voting on tonight.
Scott Reed replied that the free ride passes are a benefit for
active military personnel only.
General Manager Washington stated that RTD has thought
about providing this service to the retired military personnel.
However, with the numbers of retirees in the metro region, it
would make this action cost prohibitive because the numbers
are so great. General Manager Washington further
commented that the active duty provision that staff have in
place now is consistent throughout the transit community in
providing the active duty with the free rides.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that he works out at
Buckley Air Force base and he often hears feedback from the
active military, particularly the National Guard. The free ride
pass is a great benefit in their lives which they really
appreciate. Committee Chair Tobiassen expects that we will
hear from some of the active duty members at a future Board
meeting.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 0]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update
Bruce Abel commented that he anticipated that this will be the last update
on the CAD/AVL project because it is now up and running. He introduced
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, to review the update.
Eric Farrington greeted the Board and reiterated what Bruce Abel stated;
staff is wrapping things up for the major activities. There are still a lot of
small activities and some fine tuning to do, but in terms of macro events,
staff is pretty much done. Staff has put in a state of the art, reliable and
sustainable system. The system includes the following: (a) a public safety
voice radio system that we are sharing with other agencies throughout the
metro area, (b) a data radio system that is separate that provides
redundancy and reliability, (c) a foundation for future real time passenger
information, and (d) automatic stop announcements. Eric Farrington stated
that RTD met our FCC mandates for the new system so staff is in pretty
good shape on this.
Director Hoy shared that he likes the automatic stop announcements; he
noticed them right away. He wondered if drivers might be able to adjust the
volume of the announcements because it sometimes gets noisy on the
buses. Director Hoy also noted that the announcements currently seem
louder than when they were originally implemented. Mr. Farrington replied
that staff is still working on the fine tuning of the entire fleet.
Director Menten wondered what type of complaints staff has had from
neighbors or residents regarding the outside bus stop announcements. Mr.
Farrington responded that there have been some complaints about external
announcements; staff is pushing out a change that should go into effect this
coming Saturday that has the nighttime announcements’ volume two levels
lower than the daytime announcements’ volume. There is automatic control
for when an announcement is being made in a noisy area that the
announcement will go up relative to the external noise. This should reduce

the complaints, but as previously noted, staff is still fine tuning the system
throughout.
Director Walker shared that he rides the 0 just about every day and there are
three different types of pavement on that route: asphalt, concrete and BAD.
Sometimes the pavement can impact the announcement. Director Walker
has spoken with a few of the drivers and they’ve had mixed reactions from
the passengers about the interruption of quiet time, loudness, etc. Some of
the drivers have shut the announcements off and just use their microphones.
Director Walker noted that the announcement volume seems to be a big
enough problem on some of the routes that switching off the
announcements may be warranted. Mr. Abel responded that Alice Osner is
attending to this issue.
Director Daly inquired if the drivers activate the announcements or if they
come on automatically. Bruce Abel replied that the announcements are
automatic, and drivers are not supposed to interfere with the
announcements. Director Daly wondered if the announcements could be
turned off if there is no one boarding. Bruce Abel stated that there are
internal and external announcements. The external announcement only goes
off if the door is opened. If there is no one to board, the driver would not
open the door, so the external announcement would not occur.
General Manager Washington shared that when a driver signs in, during his
first time pulling out of the garage, he interacts with the system by signing
on, which kicks off the automatic announcement for that route. There is a
degree of driver interaction with the announcement system which occurs
when they sign on in the garage and are pulling out.
Mr. Farrington stated that each bus contains all the announcements of all
the routes. When a driver signs on, this action indicates which
announcements are appropriate for that particular bus route.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that he has heard from his friends in
the disabled community and these announcements are something they have
been pushing for a very long time. The feedback he has received has been
very positive.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce Abel introduced Judy McMurphy, Program Manager. Ms. McMurphy
informed the Board that she had some quick updates on the Smart Card
program. Staff is starting a series of testing. She reported that the first
round of testing is related to the retail point of sale (RPOS) systems which
first will be installed in RTD’s retail outlets. As staff develops our retail

agreements with retailers such as Kings Soopers and Safeway, these same
devices will be deployed in those areas as well. Testing is scheduled to take
place on November 5th. Ms. McMurphy noted that staff had also talked
briefly about the bus stanchions being defective with the Board. The
stanchions sit inside the bus and hold the bus validators in place. The Board
Report that was submitted stated that 72% of the stanchion repairs have
been completed; however, as of this afternoon we are now at 97%
complete. Ms. McMurphy reported that the stanchions have passed a
quality test by our Treasury Department to make sure that the installations
are not going to break again. Staff has redirected some of the training for
our hand-held smart media readers that our fare inspectors use on the light
rail. Beginning next week, RTD is offering 5 classes to the street supervisors
to show them how to use the devices as well. Approximately 36 staff will
be trained, and this training will take place at District Shops. She noted that
some arrangements to include after-hours classes have been made.
Judy McMurphy noted that regarding fare inspections taking place, staff is
tracking metrics on a weekly basis. Staff sees on average a 10 percent
increase week over week in the number of inspections that are taking place
on light rail. These inspections are providing staff with a wealth of
information showing what our riders are doing. These metrics show areas
where we might be able to provide some additional communication on the
actual process of tapping when boarding the light rail. Staff is also tracking
the actual number of units that our fare inspectors are using on our trains.
We average 25-26 individual units where those inspectors are out inspecting
those cards to ensure that people who have the privilege to ride are the ones
that are on the trains.
Judy McMurphy noted that the web portal is currently used by our ride
sponsors and our businesses for EcoPasses and many of our colleges for the
CollegePasses. The requirements for those are in the hands of RTD’s
subject matter experts awaiting their approval. Once the requirements are
approved, staff will submit them to RTD’s vendors which will enable staff to
move those improvements forward.
Director Hoy had a question about college passes and maybe about Metro.
He noted we had some challenges with their passes at one point and
wondered if the problem resolved.
Judy McMurphy responded that staff continues to work on that particular
issue. She explained that RTD is deploying a different solution to the way
that the colleges are adding a new contract period on to the cards. Staff is
deploying that solution on 15,000 cards that are eligible to receive the
recharge. With the new process that will be tested over approximately the

next 3-4 days, we’re going to be able to probably see an increase with
speed in which those cards are getting their recharge.
From an EcoPass standpoint, staff is taking what has been learned through
recharging our CollegePass cards and have created a different approach in
order to ensure that we don’t run into the same challenges that we did with
the college cards.
Director Hoy shared an experience he had on the Rail where a college
student’s card would not work. The driver’s response to the failed card
was, “if it doesn’t work, you don’t get on” so the alleged student paid and
got on. Director Hoy asked if staff should expect there may be times when
a college student has a card that is supposed to be valid and yet will not
work. Judy McMurphy stated yes; there would be some times when that
would occur. However, with the checks and balances staff have in place
that they are monitoring, this should eliminate the problem. Staff
remediates that issue with training that is provided to the fare inspectors as
well. So, if they look at a card that is hot listed or a student has another
student’s card, the inspectors are able to identify who those individuals are
and can confiscate those cards.
Director Deadwyler commented that regarding the light rail platform
validators, it was her understanding that staff ordered additional validators
and were installing them this summer. She wonders if this has been
corrected.
Judy McMurphy confirmed that this work has not been completed but it is
underway.

• ADA Concerns Update
Bruce Abel informed the Board that a copy of the ADA update is included in
their Board packet. He commented that there have been previous
discussions with the Board regarding some of the challenges staff
experience relative to conflicts occurring over use of the priority seating
areas on our buses. Mr. Abel introduced Alice Osner - General
Superintendent of Transportation, Carolyn Conover - Senior Manager of
Contracted Services, and Don Merritt – Manager of RTD Bus Operator
Training to review the program and some of the steps that staff is taking to
address issues.
Alice Osner stated that staff began working on various items in August of
this year. This includes clarification of the priority seating area, with
communications placed in prominent areas so there would be no ambiguity.
Staff also sent out memos to all operators so that they know what to do

when a person with a mobility device needs to board the bus and there are
other people in that area that may not move. Staff also put out
transportation bulletins and various service memos addressing how to deal
with the ADA issues as well as service animals and passenger aides, Staff
also installed a new button on the CAD/AVL radio system that is called the
ADA Pass Up button. This puts the call to Dispatch in a higher priority so if
the driver has a person in a mobility device that is unable to board, the driver
presses that button so that the call comes in at higher level of priority to
Dispatch. The button connects with the dispatchers and there is a program
to have the video pulled immediately so that it can be reviewed for training
disciplinary purposes.
Staff also did an ADA refresher training program that is outlined in the
Drivers Operator Guide in the Board packet. Staff has completed training
837 people with144 people remaining to be trained.
Carolyn Conover reported that the private contractors received the same
training during their safety meetings last month so everyone at the
contractor facilities has also gone through the training.
Alice Osner shared that marketing staff created pocket cards for the
operators. This was part of the Share the Ride program where staff asked
the operators to hand these pocket brochures out to passengers with
suitcases, strollers, or other large items when they board the bus so that the
passengers will know that they may need to take whatever large items they
have, such as strollers or suitcases, and to move from the ADA area, if
needed.
Ms. Osner shared that staff also put these communications on the operator
bulletin board, which is an internal communication system with all drivers
including contractors, and in staff’s Instructor’s Newsletter, a joint project
with contracted service. The instructors meet weekly to review various
items of concerns, with ADA being one of the big ones.
Ms. Osner stated that staff implemented our Share the Ride campaign
approximately 2 years ago with our Denver Regional Mobility and Access
Council (DRMAC) transit accessibility task force. The group included RTD
employees as well as members from organizations that represent people
with disabilities including Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition (CCDC),
Colorado Center for the Blind, city governments and other organizations that
represent people for vocational opportunities. The idea is to get all people
on the bus to work together to share the ride. The Share the Ride Message
is contained on the interior of the buses. Staff will be doing additional
outreach with single moms asking for their assistance on this matter Staff is
working on implementing a tracking system to monitor complaints on these

issues; the Telephone Information Center (TIC) has implemented a new
complaint code for priority seating area complaints so staff can see more of
the complaints from the community to better address their concerns.
Bruce Abel reported that RTD’s policy is that as per the ADA, we have an
area in the front of the bus with the fold up seats and the tie downs
designated as a priority seating area for people with disabilities. The
conflicts that he was referring to somehow took on the moniker of the
stroller policy, when in reality what staff are talking about is an increasing
number of conflicts between individuals with disabilities seeking access in
the areas that had been set aside for them and is being used by folks with
strollers and other large items who sought out that area because it can
accommodate those with large items. RTD policy is that this area is
designated for people with disabilities; others can use this area, but those
parties must be ready to move when disabled people need the area. The
conflicts that staff continues to run into is when there are folks who choose
not to move or when there are inconsistencies in the application of the
policy. These issues spurred the implementation of our renewed effort for
the priority seating area. Training is given to operators for communicating
with individuals, allowing people to use the area when vacant, but that they
must vacate when the area is needed for persons with disabilities.
General Manager Washington reminded the Board of a lawsuit regarding
ADA complaints. General Manager Washington further shared that there are
a number of our friends in the community who have been aware of RTD’s
efforts taking various ADA compliance actions; therefore, he was a little
surprised to hear about the lawsuit considering many of our ADA
stakeholders are engaged in the actions Mr. Abel just spoke about.
Marla Lien advised the Board that RTD had received a 70-page complaint
and has close to 4 weeks to respond. The complaint was filed by the
Colorado Cross Disability Coalition (CCDC); it names 3 individuals that
suffered, and they are claiming discrimination under existing policies. CCDC
alleges that it is aware of the enhanced efforts that RTD has made starting
last summer. The complaint is on behalf of persons that were either denied
boarding or had to wait for several trips to pass by before they were able to
board. The complaint seeks attorney fees and injunctive relief. The
complaint says that the policy is not adequate to protect the rights of
persons with mobility devices to have access to the system. Ms. Lien
reiterated that RTD has not yet filed an answer to the complaint.

Director Lubow commented that she was trying to get a handle on what
the concerns or complaints are about. She wondered if it was that
people in wheelchairs have to wait for service.

Marla Lien indicated that the complaint is that the designated ADA area
is full; that people with large objects such as strollers and or shopping
carts are using the area, leaving no space for the disabled people;
disabled people can’t get into the designated area. Some of the people
say that drivers don’t ask people to move, some of them say that the
driver asks people to move but nothing happens, or that the driver won’t
open the lift and raise them. One does allege that the lift was opened for
them but they were suspended in the air for a while because people
wouldn’t move, but finally did move. The complaint alleges that action
didn’t occur soon enough. Otherwise, drivers have said at some stops
that they can’t pick the disabled parties up because the bus is full.
Director Lubow wondered how RTD’s policy of improvement will address
these allegations.
Marla Lien responded that the policy might address the issues to the
extent that better driver training or outreach may help with these issues,
but the complaint is stating that the current policies are not strong
enough.
Director Lubow noted the driver is supposed to ask people to move and
she inquired if the complaint alleges that our drivers are not asking
people to move.
General Manager Washington commented that the driver cannot
physically kick someone out of the area; staff can’t force people to
move.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that staff continuously
studies other agencies and looks to see how we can strengthen our
policy. A more stringent policy can come with its own issues as well.
Staff can come up against some serious driver/passenger disputes, where
there are all out fights. General Manager Washington noted that staff
will come back to the Board with how they respond to this complaint.
Director Lubow noted that the process seems very difficult.
Director Deadwyler wondered how many of our buses have an actual
belly that opens up where you can store large packages and strollers.
Bruce Abel replied that those are available on the inter-city coaches, but
in terms of urban transit vehicles, manufactures are making low floor

buses which actually encourage folks to board buses with additional
luggage, strollers, etc., because it is so much easier to board than it used
to be in the days of a lift.
General Manager Washington commented that in the 40 footers, where
most of these issues occur, we do not have racks or storage underneath.
Marla Lien commented that the policies that have been raised do not
have a complete prohibition on strollers; the prohibitions are on large
objects over a specific size.
Director Deadwyler wondered if the automated messages discussed
earlier include instruction on the use of the ADA areas, or if passengers
have large items, do RTD’s overhead announcements give these
passengers alternatives on where they can store their items.
Bruce Abel responded that this is really the focus and the purpose of the
training that has been implemented. The goal of the training is for drivers
to be able to communicate to people that if they have a stroller they will
need to be prepared to fold it up. Additionally, if you have large items
and are seated in the ADA area, be prepared to move upon request.
Director Folska noted that staff is doing an outstanding job, and that she
is personally very disappointed that RTD is faced with a lawsuit. Director
Folska appreciates the frustration that staff is facing with the lawsuit.
She has worked with many of the staff on these projects, and she knows
that staff has worked diligently and in good faith to find reasonable
solutions for all the parties involved.
Alice Osner shared that drivers report that for the most part they get
cooperation from other customers. If the driver asks customers to move
and if they don’t move, the driver then informs the passenger of RTD’s
policies. She reiterated that the majority of people cooperate to
accommodate passengers with mobility devices.
General Manager Washington noted that he doubted any likelihood on
this lawsuit encouraging legislature to add clarity to the ADA laws.
Marla Lien noted that the State has no jurisdiction on the matter; this
lawsuit is a federal issue.

Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that this is not just a bus problem,
though primarily a bus problem. Staff has these same struggles on light
rail.

D. Other Matters
General Manager Washington shared that he asked Dave Genova and John
Tarbert to come up and talk about how staff addresses various incidents and
criminal activity around the District. He referred the Board to an email he sent
over the weekend in response to a question regarding an incident that occurred
at 30th & Downing. General Manager Washington stated that as per his email,
RTD has 7000 cameras located around the system. Part of what staff is doing
is educating the public about these cameras. Often times RTD is stuck between
the confidentiality of a police investigation and the need to tell our patrons and
our Board as well. That’s kind of where staff was with the 30th and Downing
incident. Mr. Genova and Mr. Tarbert will review the protocols and how they
are implemented.
Dave Genova greeted the Board and was joined by John Tarbert, RTD’s Transit
Police Chief. Mr. Genova noted that all RTD rail platforms have video
surveillance and all RTD rail platforms have emergency telephones that connect
into our 24-hour security command center. The technicians that work in our
command center receive the same training as 911 operators. Our technicians
are very qualified at not only the things they are monitoring but also in working
with other law enforcement agencies. Within the command center there is
direct communications, both radio and telephone, with all local law enforcement
agencies. Staff in the command center also answers our 24-hour transit watch
hotline, where patrons can call, text or email with any questions or concerns
they may have. Our patrons are quite engaged; last month staff received over
200 calls. Most of those calls are people calling in asking security to check
specific things out. Staff is working on doing some additional updates to the
transit watch materials to make them even more visible so that patrons are
aware of the program.
Mr. Genova wanted to address some concerns about station lighting. Staff
recently replaced almost every light pole and fixture along the Welton alignment
and at the 30th and Downing Street station. The poles had to be replaced due
to disrepair from corrosion at the base; at this time the fixtures were also
replaced. Staff has been working on the lighting, and has asked the facilities
team to raise the wattage. However, this also has to be balanced out within
the community, because we may have someone living across the street from
the station saying the lights are too bright.

Mr. Genova commented on the specific incident at 30th and Downing, stating
that staff believes the individuals knew each other, including the victim. He
also talked about notifications. Mr. Genova reported that RTD does have a
Command Center that does have a policy regarding notification of incidents.
This particular incident didn’t get media attention at the time of the event; had
it received media attention right away, the Board would have been notified
through the Communications Department. Regarding staff’s coordination with
local law enforcement agencies, when a criminal incident does occur, the local
law enforcement agency is the authority that has the jurisdiction. They lead the
investigation and staff cooperates with them to the fullest extent. He said that
RTD follows the law enforcement agency’s lead in the kinds of the information
that is made public. Mr. Genova noted that when a law enforcement agency is
going to go public, they are usually very good about giving RTD a heads up so
this information can be communicated to the General Manager and the Board. In
the case of the 30th and Downing incident, RTD was not given that heads up.
Dave Genova asked John Tarbert to address the timeline of the incident and
how RTD and Denver Police responded.
Mr. Tarbert reported that Denver 911 Communications called RTD’s Command
Center at 9:19 p.m. and said that they were looking for a group of suspicious
males in the area of 27th and Welton. The Command Center immediately
looked at the cameras for that location and found no one on that platform. 26
seconds later at 30th and Downing Street, suspicious males where seen.
Denver Police arrived on seen 50 seconds after the incident was reported to
RTD. The assault had already occurred. Denver Police made an arrest that night
on the spot. Since then there have been 3 more arrests made with possibly 2
more arrests pending. The victim was taken to the hospital and released within
30 minutes, with no serious injury reported. The Denver Police got the video
from RTD’s Command Center at 10:37 p.m. and it was turned over to their
evidence crew.
Director Deadwyler wanted to commend Dave and John for all their great work
with the security cameras and lighting; however, she was distressed to learn
that Chief White took 3 weeks to inform the public about the incident. Director
Deadwyler stated that this delay of information regarding the incident is
distressing to her constituents and other colleagues around the City. They are
asking her why communication took so long. Feedback from others is that RTD
should have some responsibility in communicating to and notifying the public.
RTD records indicate that we have 3000 people boarding at this location each
day. She has a big concern when our riders do not know to be more vigilant,
especially when there are still people at large. RTD should have some
responsibility to the public. For RTD not to say a word or anything, we look like

we lack responsibility and that we don’t care about the constituents in this
area. Even Police Chief White admitted he waited too long. She believes we
need to be able to communicate to people when they have a need to be extra
careful.
Dave Genova stated that staff will work with our agency partners to the best of
our ability on that but he thinks the biggest impacts we can have is through our
Transit Watch Program Staff will continue to work at making the Transit Watch
Program even more visible.
Director Deadwyler commented that she felt now is a good opportunity to do
something like that, or a safety program, or even just post things around the
stations with information about what people should and shouldn’t do. Director
Deadwyler commented that last year, or the year before, people voted to have
extra police officers and additional security around the system. She noted that
there never seem to be any of those additional officers or security at the right
place at the right time. Director Deadwyler understands that it would be
impossible to be everywhere because there are not enough resources.
However, when we have incidents in specific areas, we need to beef up
security in those areas.
Director Folska noted that where there are broken window neighborhoods,
places where things are left un-kept, it often attracts violence and destruction
of property. Director Folska shared that some areas haven’t been maintained;
things are broken and have not been painted. She knows staff fixed the clock
tower recently at Arapaho Station. Nine Mile hasn’t been properly maintained
and she gets complaints about that all the time.
John Tarbert stated that he checked with the crime analyst for the past 28
days; within a three block area of the 30th and Downing platform, simple
assaults have gone down 25% even before the incident occurred. Extra patrols
are occurring in in the area 24/7.
Director Deadwyler commented that this was the information she had been
asking about, if staff is beefing up security. Anyone can go driving in that area
on any given day and will see a crowd of men just hanging out watching and
looking. This community didn’t know that security was beefed up. RTD has
got to let people know something regardless of what Denver Police
communicates.
Director Lubow agreed with Director Deadwyler. If police took 3 weeks before
going public that does seem to be a problem. She understands Denver Police
took the lead, and that RTD cannot compromise an ongoing investigation, but it

seems like there would be something staff could work out so that they can
communicate something in a timely manner to the public when they need to be
more vigilant.
General Manager Washington noted that as he had stated in his email to the
Board last weekend, staff are torn between confidentiality and getting out
information to the public. Staff has talked to Chief White’s office, and he is
reviewing protocol regarding who releases what information along with when
and how that information is released. As staff moves through these protocols,
they have to take these incidents one case at a time and work with the
authorities.
Director Deadwyler asked if General Manager Washington or the staff could
continue to provide updates on the security matters and notification policies.
General Manager Washington confirmed that they would do so.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 19, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:31 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

