Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 29, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 29, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 29, 2010
at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members
Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Daly, James,
McMullen, Malpiede, Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen.

Board Members
Absent:
Directors Christopher, Martinez, O’Boyle
Staff Present: Bruce Abel, Jenny Barket, Rick Clarke, Carol Duecker, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Anthony Menendez,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, John Shonsey, Henry
Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington,
Others Present: Loraine Anderson, Ed Bush (CRMCA), Gloria Holliday, Kathleen
Osher (Transit Alliance), Nick Moller (JP Morgan), Tim Romer (Goldman Sachs), Dee
Wisor (Sherman & Howard)
***
Call to Order:
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:39
p.m.
I. Transit Alliance
Kathleen Osher made a presentation on the Transit Alliance, sharing its history
and focus in three primary areas: Education, experience and outreach.
The Citizen’s Academy which is a part of the educational component of the
Transit Alliance, has graduated over 300 transit advocates, including three
who are current Board members and 3 who are current city councilwomen.
The focus is on finding the right people with a passion for transit to help
promote its benefits. The Transit Alliance is also a promoter of the ten toe
experience which is a mobility effort to get people out walking, biking and
using the transit system. The grassroots and grasstops outreach targets
social events to create excitement while educating on uses for transit.
Several Board members complimented Kathleen and the Transit Alliance for
their efforts in educating and informing the public and for the sustainability of
this program. Director Tayer inquired what is their funding strategy going

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 29, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 2 of 4
forward. Kathleen responded that while they are still heavily dependent on
the public sector, they are also starting to see great opportunity in the private
sector.
Director Bagley noted there are several opportunities out there with colleges,
universities, students, et al, to find a way to include these users of
transportation to further spread the work. He encouraged the Transit Alliance
to tap into these potential sources. Director Daly noted the value of the
candidate briefings that are facilitated by the Transit Alliance and asked if they
intend to do so this year. Kathleen responded yes, probably late October.
Chair Kemp wrapped up the discussion by stating the Transit Alliance is doing
an outstanding job. One of the opportunities that he is discussing with
Kathleen is to provide the name of graduates/advocates in each respective
district so the Directors can add to their distribution list and outreach to these
graduates in their district.
For a copy of the Transit Alliance presentation, please refer to the study
session minutes located in the Board office.
II.

Update P3 Financial Plan on Public Activity Bonds (PAB)
Terry Howerter, CFO, introduced the financial team of Dee Wisor, Tim Romer
(Goldman Sachs) and Nick (JP Morgan) who would provide an overview of the
public activity bonds. The public activity bonds were components of each of
the P3 concessionaire proposals which will require some action by the Board
members to approve in a resolution and associated documents.
Tim Romer explained at a high level that PABs permit the use of tax exempt
bonds to facilitate private infrastructure investments. RTD will act as the
government conduit but would not be liable for the bonds. This is a proven
technique that has been used in toll roads, airport facilities and other
infrastructure projects.
Dee Wisor reviewed RTD’s role in the Eagle P3 PABs structure and identified
the documents and timeline for the Board approval. The Board will be asked
to conduct a TEFRA hearing and approve the PAB documents in a special
Board meeting on July 13th.
Director Bagley asked what was a typical interest rate they are seeing right
now. Tim Romer responded it depends on the credit rating but somewhere
between the mid to high 6’s.
Director Tayer wanted to know how much of the 1.3B authorization has been
used for the P3. Tim responded less than ½.
Director Brohl wanted to understand what was the role the private investors
would plan in this process and what happens if they do not like the rates. Tim
Romer responded the alignment of interest is key. Equity investors want as
low a rate as possible. In the long run, the service payments would increase
or decrease depending on the rates.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 29, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 3 of 4
For a copy of the Private activity bond presentation, please refer to the study
session minutes located in the Board office.
III.

Top 4 Priorities from Board Advance Planning Session 4/17/10
General Manager Phil Washington presented the 4 top priorities that came
from the Board-staff advance planning session in April. He provided the
tactical plan for implementation which will drive the budget for 2011.
1. FasTracks Funding—Staff will actively pursue opportunities for new
funding sources and options to help fill the funding gap. They will
identify any specific actions to obtain additional funding including the
pursuit of several smaller grants.
2010:
 In 2010, they will be pursuing the Tiger II grant in a joint application
with CDOT for the I-225 segment from Parker Road to Iliff. The
Tiger II has a potential $700M for the country. One of the strategies
of staff is to be construction ready so we can be nimble and quick
when such opportunities arise. This grant application is due late
July/August.
 Pursuing $16M for Downtown Circulators
 Provide updated FasTracks financial plan including possible options
for the potential $300M
2011:
 We are on course for the Full Funding Grant Agreement which is
targeted in spring/summer of 2011. We will continue in conversation
with FTA on the importance of this full funding grant agreement.
 Identify new corridors for FTA new start criteria (unfunded corridors)
2. Equity and Efficiency in Service Delivery (Service Distribution Policies)
 Continue to provide Board with service standards
 Provide information detail on ridership
 Facilitate a study session in fall of 2010 to educate, solicit Board
input and discuss changes.
Director Tayer requested that the issue discussed under item 2 should be
more appropriately referred to as service distribution policies.

3. Marketing and Advertising
 Continue to save by using advertising trades with publications. Scott
Reed estimates potential $1.2M value of these trades.
 Completing the Faces of RTD campaign
 Launch benefits of transit advertising campaign (i.e. job, environment,
congestion, etc)
 Complete 3rd party marketing and community assessment
 Increase Facebook and Twitters exposures
 Implement Workforce initiatives and benefits are key-emphasis the
economic benefit of a full build out.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 29, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 4 of 4
4. State of Good Repair (Capital Investment Standards)
 Dave Genova will head up looking at the lifecycle of assets. This is
big with FTA with a focus on how are you going to take care of what
you have. There are various phases of this project beginning with
research, outlining program phases, establishing a state of good
repair policy group and implementation targeted for the last of 2010
or the first of 2011.
Questions/comments from Directors:
Director Busck asked if this will increase special dollars. General Manager
Washington indicated it would not. Director Busck validated that during the service
change process, there would be an opportunity to educate and obtain Board input.
He also asked if the marketing assessment would involve an outreach to
stakeholders and constituents to see what is it they would like to see. He stated
that at the end of the day, our efforts must focus on the core business and looking
at ways we can become the number 1 agency.
Director Tobiassen wanted to know how does the EE versus EA impact funding.
General Manager Washington indicated we will perform analysis on upgrading and
benefits. Director Tobiassen inquired if we can apply for grants without the proper
designation. Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning responded we can apply but we cannot
spend until the proper designation has been obtained. There would be a cost and
time impact.
Director Bagley wanted to know when the Board will receive a draft of what was
presented. General Manager Washington indicated next week.
Director Daly asked for an explanation of advertising trades. Scott Reed provided
this explanation.
Director McMullen asked at what point do we begin looking at a second PPP.
General Manager Washington responded that unofficially we have already begun
but he would not anticipate this discussion until we have wrapped up the
negotiations for the Eagle P3, perhaps late October or November. Staff is
continuously looking for innovative solutions that could be P3 or some other
solution.
VI.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

VII.

Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 6:45 p.m.

