Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 15, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
July 15, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and Quinlan arrived after
roll call. Directors Elfenbein and Martinez were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present to receive their awards.
Recognition of Participation in 2008 International Roadeo
Bruce Daly recognized the following Veolia contractor participants at the international roadeo:
John Willem, Roger Grindle, Robert Knoke, and Ralph Ruhnke. Additionally he recognized the
RTD rail participants: George Sweeney, Scott Sandoval, and Newt Williams.
Special Recognition
Chair Kemp expressed the Board’s appreciation to Lloyd Mack, Assistant General Manager,
for his work and dedication at RTD and wished him well in his new assignment. Chair Kemp
read a letter from the Board to Lloyd which was presented to him.
Lloyd Mack stated he had started at RTD in 1991 and has had a wonderful experience. He
thanked all his fellow colleagues, Cal Marsella and the Board and gave the credit to the full
team for RTD’s success.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Honorable Nancy McNally, Mayor of Westminster, spoke on behalf of the US 36 Corridor
Coalition (MCC) and stated their thanks to RTD for the support and passage of item C on the
agenda, Proposed Amendment to CDOT/RTD IGA for Funding for US36 BRT Phase 2 Final
Environmental Impact Statement.
Teri Westerman, Lakewood, spoke about issues encountered on access-a-ride since the
implementation of the RouteMatch software. She stated it has not been working at all since
installed June 6 and that during that time she has been late to work daily and her afternoon
rides back have been severely delayed. As it stands, she has to leave her home by 5:30 a.m.
to get to work by 7:00 a.m. which should be sufficient time. She is concerned about losing
her job due to not getting to work on time as are others who have shared their story with her.
RouteMatch seems to have some scheduling/mapping deficiencies which will not tell it is a bad
trip and sometimes forces drivers to zigzag across the city turning a 20 minute trip into a 2hour trip. She shared a story of one such access-a-rider who was on the bus for 5 hours as a

result of such issues.
Director Ruchman commented that he has known Teri for some time and used to work with
her. She has been an access-a-ride user for many years and never until today did she feel the
need to come in to complain. This type of service for our users is unacceptable and something
must be done.
Robert Weinberg is a 9 year access-a ride user who has been riding steadily to his job at
Buckley Air Force Base for the last 5 years. He considers access-a-ride his lifeline that has
now turned into a disaster. He has been late no less than 3 times a week since this software
went in. His personal experience include being left without a ride, mis-mapping with Route
Match, and zigzagging from one end of the city to another wasting gas, time and money.
He likened this experience to DIA baggage system fiasco and suggested we need to go back to
Trapeze.
Priscilla Jones, Aurora, is another access-a-ride user whose job may be in jeopardy because of
problems associated with RouteMatch. Her primary issue is with scheduling. She states that
even after she has been given a time and confirmed in the system, the schedule will still
change. She wants to know why the time changes on the manifest after it is already
scheduled. This has made her late to work at least 3 times a week. She is trying to maintain
gainful employment but coming to work late is jeopardizing her employment. She shared an
experience where she had a 3:30a.m. pickup that did not show until 5:00 a.m. or a 4:30 p.m.
pickup from her job that did not show until 7:00 p.m. in which she arrived home at 9:00 p.m.
Russell Greear, Denver, stated he is a student at CCD who feels like the students have been
adversely impacted by the late start due to DNC and they should get their bus pass early.
Instead, they have to pay 4 days more because of this screw-up. He also stated he is a rider
of the route 15 and 16. The route 16 bus will allow full bus of standees whereas the route 16
driver will not resulting in pass-ups.
Les Villanyi, Littleton, spoke about his opposition to the route 35 changes and his only other
option to catch a bus off Wadsworth which makes it difficult to catch the buses going east
because of the schedules that have these buses leaving 3 minutes earlier than when he can
connect. He requested a look at the schedule going east to see what can be done.
Director McMullen noted that the problems with access-a-ride are not getting any better and
the Board needs to step it up a bit in getting behind what is really going on with our
customers. He thanked the public participants who came out today.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes or comments to the Committee reports.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF June 17, 2008
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the June 17, 2008
regular board meeting minutes.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Pulliam had to give a manual voice vote since
his voting equipment malfunctioned. Directors Elfenbein and
Martinez were absent

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

Director Chacon requested an update correction to the DBE meeting notes held June
24, 2008 based on revised FasTracks D/SBE Participation Summary data provided July
9, 2008. This memo itself erroneously refers to the DBE meeting date on July 23,
2008 when it should have read June 24, 2008. Please refer to this memorandum for
the updated information.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Attended Mayor’s Education Seminar on Homeland Security
Cal Marsella attended this meeting on July 8th which was represented by FBI, public
agencies and anyone who has a role in the DNC. They did a lot of scenarios around people
movement in and around Invesco. Lots of time and effort is being put in and RTD will
dedicate appropriate resources in accordance with FTA.
Director Brohl inquired when information would be released on bus and light rail schedules.
Large employers have options which require advance planning information. The tentative
date for release of information by the City is 7/16/08.
Director Quinlan queried about anticipated traffic congestion and the plans for gridlock.
Director Ruchman asked if RTD has been in touch with Minneapolis on creative ideas they
may be implementing.
Director McMullen requested the FasTracks PI team to provide information on our buses
and routes that would be helpful to guests visiting the city.
2. Signature on U.S. 36 Combined Alternatives with Mayors, Russ George, FTA, FHWA
Cal Marsella, Directors Tayer and Christopher participated in a planning section which is a
product of longtime study. This was a positive signing ceremony where everyone in the
corridor came together in this compromise. This provided a practical alternative and CDOT
has committed to working on accelerating the access to funds.
Director Christopher commended Cal Marsella on his driving effort to get people to make
the hard decisions and come together in this doable compromise.
3. Meeting with Russ George on July 10th to discuss CDOT/RTD Funding
Cal Marsella and Liz Rao met with Russ George and Peggy Caitlin to discuss future
directions and initiatives that would benefit both agencies. Both agencies share in the
need for funding and they are committed to working together in a multi-modal approach to
address the challenges and opportunities. They will meet regularly to consider what a
plan might look like that both agencies can support.
4. Interview with L.A Times on Transit Funding Paradox
As noted, a lot of agencies are suffering from the impact of less revenue to support the
increased ridership due to the fuel crisis. Because RTD is ahead of other properties in
their rail investments, Cal Marsella participated in an interview with the L.A. Times on this
issue. He has not received a copy of this yet but will share with the Board when
received.
5. Attended FTA Risk Assessment Recap July 11
The FTA looks at a lot of variables including contingencies and other factors and performs
a risk assessment of RTD. RTD is required to respond to these and he is pleased to report
RTD does not have any major items at this point that could be a major threat to moving
ahead for the Full Funding Grant Agreement. This is a major milestone in securing the Full
Funding Grant Agreement. RTD is currently on target for the total $308M commitment for
the West Corridor.

6. Interview with Westward
Cal Marsella participated in an interview with Westward that was largely targeted around
DUS. They were interested in knowing how did the relationship come about and if RTD
anticipated when buying the site how it would be used today. Cal responded this was part
of the vision.
7. Meeting with Mayor Hickenlooper
Cal Marsella met with the Honorable Mayor Hickenlooper and the owners of the Denver
Post site in an impromptu meeting. Coach Shanahan, who is an investor in the Denver
Post site with Ascendant Development, was in attendance.
8. Ad in Tuesday’s Denver Post and Rocky Mountain News
Ascendant Development ran an ad in both the Denver Post and the Rocky Mountain News
depicting a picture of RTD abandoned buses. Cal let them know he was not appreciative
of this but RTD will continue to work with them on this issue.
Director McMullen reiterated his support for this site.
9. Other Issues—RouteMatch
Chair Kemp requested Cal Marsella to address the concerns and allegations made about
RouteMatch. Cal Marsella indicated staff were very aware of problems with RouteMatch
and were meeting with leadership of RouteMatch as well as the contractors. The purpose
of this software implementation is to increase efficiency and productivity. One of the
considerations is if the problems cannot be fixed to turn off the software and go back to
the old system. If they had to go back to the Trapeze system, some time and training
would be required for the new people. Larry Buter estimated a month leadtime minimally
would be needed.
Larry Buter and Tom Coogan with RouteMatch attempted to explain the issues and their
corrective course of action. Director Quinlan emphatically stated the explanation by
RouteMatch was “B.S.” and they need to fix it now or leave.
There was a general consensus from the Board members that this situation is unacceptable
and access-a-ride users are being negatively impacted. They agreed that RouteMatch must
fix it or cut bait. As stated by Director Christopher and echoed by Director Chacon, this is
our worst moment in customer service and we have let our users down especially the
people who rely on our services the most. Several of the Directors expressed their
disappointment in the system and Director Brohl requested an immediate action plan which
would provide a date certain or criteria certain timeframe for the plan. Director Pulliam
reiterated this sense of urgency and said they should only have until Friday, July 18, to
upload the new software to see if it works. Director Ruchman found it hard to understand
why RouteMatch was experiencing this level of difficulty on software that was basically
off-the shelf and wanted to understand the uniqueness of the RTD system. Tom Coogan
shared that one of the issues had to do with bad addresses from the conversion process.
Chair Kemp summed this energetic discussion up by providing this recap. The Board
members are not happy with the RouteMatch software and neither are the constituents
whom they serve. He requested a cure notice to RouteMatch to provide a plan of action
to fix or cut bait. The plan should identify what they plan to do to produce reliable safe
service for our constituents. He requested Cal Marsella to provide an action plan
immediately on this issue to the Board.
VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-H.

Director Ruchman seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor (including one manual vote) and 0 against. Director
Quinlan had left and Directors Elfenbein and Martinez
were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Authorization to Appoint RTD Representatives for Denver Union Station Project
Authority
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Chairman of the
RTD Board of Directors appoint two RTD representatives to the Denver Union
Station Project Authority (the Authority) Board of Directors. The Authority will be a
non-profit corporation formed under the authority of the City and County of Denver
for the purposes of issuing revenue bonds, receiving revenues and paying expenses
for the Denver Union Station project.

B.

Conveyance of Easements or Leases to the USNC for Purposes of Creating Denver
Union Station Metropolitan District
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the General
Manager be authorized to convey five easements or leases to USNC or its designees
for the purposes of creating elector’s parcels for an election for the formation of the
Denver Union Station (DUS) Metropolitan Districts (the Met Districts) which will
include a management and four taxing districts. A TABOR election will also be held.
The Met Districts will be authorized to establish mill levies for payment of debt
service for capital projects and for their operation and maintenance at DUS.

C.

Proposed Amendment to CDOT/RTD IGA for Funding for US36 BRT Phase 2 Final
Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to proceed with an amendment to the
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with CDOT to fund the preparation of the Final
Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the US36 Corridor. RTD’s total funding
share for this action for the US36 BRT Phase 2 would be for 25 percent of the cost
of preparation of the FEIS and Record of Decision (ROD), not to exceed $1,000,000.
This action is necessary to continue the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
process, and to develop and assess the impacts of the Preferred Alternative and to
prepare the ROD.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of
$1,000,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to fund the preparation of the
FEIS and ROD. This will accelerate funding that was provided for the corridor in
2009 in the FasTracks Financial Plan.

D.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Kumar and Associates, Inc. for the FasTracks
Owner’s Materials Verification Testing Services Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract to the most qualified proposer, Kumar and
Associates, Inc., in an estimated not-to-exceed amount of $5,000,000 for Owner’s
Materials Verification Testing Services for FasTracks. This is a multi-year contract
spanning 2008 – 2013, with the provision for additional five one-year options. The
work scope will be negotiated annually to allow flexibility in supporting the

FasTracks projects, and funded through project budgets that will require separate
RTD Board actions. Funds for the initial contract award of $50,000 are contained in
the 2008 RTD Budget for the West Corridor.

IX.

E.

Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS) (CAD/AVL) Sole Source Fixed End
Upgrade
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award a sole-source contract to Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS) in the
amount not-to-exceed $2,700,000. The procurement is for fixed-end hardware and
software system updates to the agency’s computer aided dispatch and automatic
vehicle location system (CAD/AVL).

F.

Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
(the “Agreement”).

G.

Modification to RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Investment Policy (the “Policy”), modified to change
the title “Senior Manager of Finance” to that of “Chief Financial Officer” and to
authorize Terry L. Howerter, as Chief Financial Officer, to transact investment
business on behalf of the District (please see Appendix I to Policy).

H.

State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No. 17-DX-001 with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, which is an agreement for state legislative
liaison services for one year (July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009) at a cost of
$95,000 and four (4) additional one-year options to renew at prices specified in the
Contract, each option period contingent upon approval by the Board of Directors.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to move
into Executive Session for the purpose to
discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (a) Real
Property-Disposition of Land in Fort Lupton
and C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (a) and (e) DUS
and Market Street Negotiations and
Property Disposition.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

The Board adjourned to Executive Session at 7:00 p.m.
The Board adjourned from Executive Session at 7:55 p.m.

X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
I.

Resolution No.___ Series of 2008 - APTA Customer Service Peer Review
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
Resolution for the APTA Customer Service Peer
Review.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

Director Tayer thanked Director Kinton for his
insightfulness and diligence in bringing this
matter forward.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12
votes in favor and 0 against. Director Quinlan
had left and Directors Elfenbein and Martinez
were absent.
Chair Kemp
unanimously.

J.

declared

the

motion

PASSED

Disposition of Land in Fort Lupton (From Executive Session)
MOTION:
Director Busck made the motion to authorize the
General Manager to negotiate a purchase and sell
agreement for the Brighton property (Fort Lupton)
as discussed in the Executive Session.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Ruchman,) and 1 against (Yamrick). Director
Quinlan had left and Directors Elfenbein and
Martinez were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business
ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.

XIII.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, July 15, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick

District I
District K
District E
District O
District D
District C
District J
District N
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bill Bell
Larry Buter
Rick Clarke
Ron Dodsworth
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Terry Howerter
Brian Iacono

Marla Lien
Lloyd Mack
Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella
Tony McCaulay
Jerry Nery
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Liz Rao

OTHERS PRESENT:
Robert Knoke – Veolia
Newt Williams
Ann Williams
Ed Colby – URS
Rob Anderson – First Transit
Peter Lorenzen
Gary Ulberg
Teri Westerman
Roger A. Grindle – Veolia
John M. Willem – Veolia
Charlene A. Willem
Ralph Ruhnke – Veolia
Sara Ruhnke
Marcie Ruhnke
Leah Ruhnke
Robert Weinberg
Nancy McNally – Mayor of Westminster
Priscilla Jones
Robin Kniech – FRESC
Craig Lessard
Bill James
Kent Bagley

Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Liz Telford
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter

John Maslanik
Laura Yribia
Les Villanyi
Pete Tobin – Ascendant Development
Martin Wirth
Bruce Behack – Veolia
Tom Coogan – RouteMatch
Ramey Johnson
Rick McNeal
Cody Wertz – GBSM
Kim Snyder
Russell Greear

