Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, November 29, 2011
Page 1 of 7
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

November 30, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, November 29, 2011 at 5:30
p.m.

Special Board Meeting
I.

Call to Order
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 6:38 p.m.

II.

Roll Call
There were thirteen (13) Board members present at roll call. Director Anderson was
absent but participated via phone.

III.

Motion to move to Executive Session
Prior to the motion to move into executive session, Deputy General Counsel Asphaug
provided an explanation on the criteria under Open Meetings that governs the ability to
go into executive session. He explained there are limited reasons for going into an
executive session and that the CRS code must be stated. The applicable CRS code for
this meeting is C.R.S.24-6-402(4) (e) and C.R.S.24-6-402(4) (g) related to contract
negotiations for Denver Union Station to discuss confidential matters. The specific
confidential matter to be discussed is the financials related to the DUS proposals.
General Manager Washington explained they would discuss the DUS financials and
would resume from the executive session into an open discussion of DUS. He had
invited both bidders, USNC and USA, to provide a 10-15 minute presentation after
which the Board members would ask their questions.
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to move into executive session to discuss C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (e) and C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (g) Contracts Negotiations for Denver Union Station.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to move to Executive
Session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4)
(e) and (g) Contract Negotiations for DUS.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, November 29, 2011
Page 2 of 7

Vote on the
Motion:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 in favor and 0
against.
The Motion PASSED.
The Board adjourned into executive session at 6:45 p.m.
The Board adjourned from executive session back into the special board meeting at
8:00 p.m.

IV.

Discussion: Denver Union Station
USNC was the first presenter and introduced the team of Mark Falcone, Mark
Smith, Frank Cannon, Martin Willie, Darren Hinton, Chris Frampton, and Sarah
Brown.
Mark Falcone provided a background on USNC indicating they have been working
with RTD for some time in the plans for converting the DUS into a multimodal
facility and that they have been constant in their process. They are an advocate for
the right use of the DUS as a historic building and feel that the building itself is a
symbolic entryway to the project. Mark spoke to the intensity of use quoting
approximately 200,000 transit riders per day of which 40-50,000 of these riders
will pass through the building. He stated that people move with a purpose. On
their way through, the public has asked for a restaurant in the great hall train station
and the use of the transit infrastructure to make sure transit is convenient, serving
the need of the transit customer and we must take care of the transit riders. If we
do not make it easy and convenient, people will not use it. There is a need for good
signage and visual cues for the huge volume of people migrating through the
building. Train stations are implicitly public stations which encourages loitering and
everyone feels welcome to come into the station and meander about. USNC is about
restoring the building to what it used to be in its glory while minimizing the harm to
the building. He also stated they have a reputation for completing the project on
time and within budget.
Mark indicated they have skin in the game and DUS should not be put at risk. He
stated this is why they want to fund with all equity and no debt. Some of them are
personally guaranteeing the $550K annually through 2024. He also spoke about a
possible buyback agreement if the transit needs were there. He stated they have
already invested approximately $700M, closed and funded commitments of $100M
in additional equity; they have performed on every obligation to RTD; they intend to
close on parcel A&B; they are committed and invested.
Questions and comments from Directors:
Director McMullen commented that DUS is a crown jewel. He asked about full
access throughout the building. Frank Cannon commented the building is
accessible. The main train hall is all public. The mezzanine area is open to the
public.
Director Daly asked about the drawings from the 3rd floor and stated there was not
much going on in their drawings. USNC responded the attic space is full of
mechanical equipment. They plan to use the equipment but there intent is to restore

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, November 29, 2011
Page 3 of 7

the building as originally intended.
Director Tayer inquired about the incubator space and the high quality destination
restaurants. He inquired about the assumptions on vacancies to fill out the office
space and asked for what assurances USNC could give on their ability to rent out
this space. Mark responded the micro-business concepts are consistent with the
City Council and they have executed LOI’s with operators for the market. They have
worked with organizations such as Create Denver and have spent time cultivating
space for this type of tenant. He referred to another development Bellmar where
they had similar experience.
Director Tayer asked if there were any commitments in the proposals on the type
of use or guarantee that we will get the character of tenants that USNC described.
Mark indicated they would be willing to allow the Board to have input into the
decision.
Director James inquired about lot A&B and what was the relationship to RTD.
Frank Cannon commented that they have a Letter of Intent (LOI) with RTD. They
have submitted a draft which RTD is reviewing but this is good through 2014.
There are some environmental issues being worked but USNC has exclusive rights
that expire in 2014.
Director James asked USNC to describe what they see the people doing in the great
train room. Frank Cannon responded he sees workers, visitors, city wide users,
concierge, a bar, and restaurants.
Director Malpiede asked about how many jobs will there be at DUS. USNC
responded approximately 300 employees in the office space and about 75-100 in
the downstairs. USNC also responded they have a commitment to SBE/DBE for
design and subcontracting of about 50% and they plan to incorporate WIN
opportunities. They do have plans for a bicycle station that will be outside of the
building on the 16st mallside that will house 200 bikes, and will also include
showers and lockers. They are in discussion with car rental/car share companies
about possible Kiosk locations where cars would be stored and brought in on
demand. Director Malpiede inquired about how they intend to incorporate diverse
and universal signage. USNC responded they will be incorporating diversity in their
signage and will be following the city guidelines. Their signage will be
complementary to the station.
Director Bagley inquired about usage before and after 5:00 p.m. He stated that he
could not see much usage in the private office space after hours or on weekends.
Mark commented that the nature and kind of tenants will be different than the
traditional offices. He cited an example of artists, upholstery, etc where the
customer base is less dependent on walk through but will be open for those
customers who just walk in.
Director Tobiassen asked specific questions related to maintenance. RTD budgets
$880,000 for maintenance and $200,000 for maintenance of Denver Union Station.
How do you propose to cover maintenance of DUS both in the long term and in the
short term?
USNC responded they estimate the cost of maintenance of DUS to be about
$800,000 per year with one half of that assigned to public, office and retail spaces
which USNC assumes full responsibility for. The remaining part of the $400K is the
payment USNC provides to RTD. The $550,000 that USNC will pay to RTD is

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, November 29, 2011
Page 4 of 7

sufficient to cover all of the operating costs for RTD. The additional make up of the
$550K is $150K that goes to RTD for long term capital repairs and obligations like
roof repair, electrical and mechanical repairs. USNC is going into this with all new
electrical, mechanical, boiler and roof and this will be restored to the current
condition. With the tenants, this will be a much lower maintenance building. The
$150K will be earmarked for a sinking fund and the funds will remain available for
the maintenance of the building. As USNC looked at the funding sources, they
worked with RTD and Denver to create a series of metropolitan districts. There are
five districts. The districts entered into taxing agreements that proposed 30 mils of
property tax with 20 mils pledged to cover the capital costs of the building project
and 10 mils coming back to cover operations and maintenance of the public realm.
USNC entered into an IGA between the DUS metro district and RTD and they have
pledged revenues to RTD for the ongoing maintenance from the locally owned and
operated users that potentially have national resources. USNC will give RTD the
right to approve the kinds of tenants which is an advantage of not having a lender
on the building. If they had a lender on the building, they would never be able to
surrender that right. They can make sure that the building is flexible.
Director McMullen inquired about ingress/egress to this building. USNC showed a
drawing referring to ingress/egress points of access.
Director Walker asked if there is any type of LEED certification. USNC responded
they are pursuing LEED certification.
USA made their presentation at approximately 9:15 p.m. This team consisted of Dana
Crawford, Walter Isenberg, Joe Vostrejs, Kyle Miller, and Cody Wortz. Walter Isenberg
began the presentation by taking a walk through a field of imagination about the
different type of people who may find the environment inviting like a family living room.
He talked about who the team was and their plan to provide a building that focused on
transit first, with a great hall maintaining the historical integrity of the building, custom
crafted shops and retails, hotel and being an economic engine.
Walter spoke on the public space as a multimodal transportation center and that 96%
of the Great Hall will be dedicated to transit. They are committed to the same public
access policies that RTD utilizes at Market Street Station, Civic Center Station and
others to create an open and accessible Union Station. Joe spoke about the retail
space and the goal of a custom, crafted retail restaurants and services that would
incorporate feedback from the neighborhood outreach, unconventional and effective
tenant recruitment, partnership with over some 15 enterprises, 24 hr dining, commuter
bike shop and a projected 100 parking spaces during the day and 200 parking spaces
at night. They envision having rental car availability on site. There plan also provides
an economic engine with over $100M to RTD to help in the TIF district, 350 jobs
created and a commitment to the WIN program. USA is offering a rock solid plan, has
a proven track record of success and believes they can accomplish what they are
planning, obtain proper permits and do so while retaining the historic preservation of
DUS. They compared the proposed plan for DUS with other more complicated work
they have successfully completed and maintained the historic preservation (i.e. Marriott
Courtyard on 16 ST mall).
Questions and Comments from Directors:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, November 29, 2011
Page 5 of 7

Director Malpiede asked the same set of questions of USA as she did of USNC. USA
responded they have a 26% DBE/SBE commitment. Walter added that SAGE
Hospitality had successfully piloted their own WIN-type program at the Oxford and
were both familiar and committed to this program. They also planned to have space for
bikes and intend to have space there for storage of rental/car sharing vehicles. Dana
Crawford spoke on the basement and train room where she indicated they have been
spending time with the train buffs and will be working with them on making sure this
part of DUS history is intact. Relative to the question on cultural diversity and signage,
USA indicated they are working with someone who has lots of experience with the
Washington D.C. grand terminal and its international appeal and would be able to make
proper signage appropriate for DUS.
Director McMullen asked several questions pertaining to the plans for the extension of
mezzanine, 2nd floor lounge, waiting area and what he saw as only 2 forms of
egress/ingress. He expressed concern over the proposal to drop the floor and block
view to the windows or ceilings that are part of the historic attractiveness. USA
responded that the plans Director McMullen was referencing had been updated. The
Board members had not been provided these updated plans. USA indicated they had
been responding appropriately to the questions from the RTD evaluation team and had
provided these updates. They will provide updated plans to the Board members
tomorrow.
Director James asked USA to comment on the placement in the train room. Walter
responded that the Great Train Hall is a multimodal, transit oriented space with 24
hours/lights on all the time.
Director Tobiassen stated that the RTD’s AGM in charge of facilities and security
indicated that RTD budgets $880,000 per year for DUS facility general maintenance
and $200,000 per year for security. In addition, RTD is responsible for all major
capital repairs. What is your concept of maintenance and what will RTD’s
responsibilities be for the building during the length of the lease term? USA
responded the lease payment made to RTD is the net sum of all of those expenses.
USA is a 24 hour, 7 days per week, 365 days per year operation and they will be
on the premises all the time. Security, maintenance and capital improvements are
all built into their model. Director Tobiassen then responded if the boiler needs to be
replace after 30 years, USA will replace the boiler and RTD will not need to worry
about it? USA responded yes, that is correct.
Director Daly inquired what would happen if the hotel failed. USA responded they have
a solid track record and have worked successfully on 14 historic preservation hotels.
They perceive the modifications they are making to DUS as relatively minor and are
confident in their plans for DUS. They have worked with the Denver Landmark
Commission on similar projects and do not anticipate any issues with DUS.
Director Daly further inquired about the Great Hall. Walter responded they have
budgeted over $½ M to move the design forward.
Director Deadwyler stated a picture is worth a thousand words for her and expressed
discomfort with the plan to gut the insides out as part of the attractiveness of the
Great Hall are the high beam ceilings and openness of the space itself. She did not feel
they were creating the type of livable space where a diverse community would feel
comfortable meandering about.
Director Tayer expressed concern that the hotel may be taking away from the public

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, November 29, 2011
Page 6 of 7

space. He would like to see USA do a better job of capturing the use of the public
space and articulating how the everyday transit rider might be comfortable in this
space. He did not see how the historic preservation was captured in this proposal. He
also asked if RTD will have the opportunity to weigh in on the retail mix. Walter
responded absolutely. Walter further reiterated that USA has adopted the RTD policy
for public access and they will provide a list of the current properties where they have
made historic preservation. Their goal is to be LEEDS GOLD certified.
Director Tayer referenced some of the earlier drawings where it showed door signage
for entrance to the hotel and a separate entrance for the train station. USA responded
this was old signage and the current plans do not reflect this.
Director Cohen stated that the RTD Board goal is to make the DUS facility accessible
and affordable to all. He asked about the costs of using these specialized stores for
purchase of something as simple as a cup of coffee (black) compared with cheaper
options. Walter responded all of these will be transit oriented businesses. They will
craft a retail mix for the people who will be using it. For example, during the day when
transit travelers are trying to get to work, the businesses may be coffee shops, bakery,
etc that caters to the quick in and out; during the afternoon it may be more focused
around the lunch crowd and in the evening, it may be more focused on people who
may want a relaxed dinner.
Director Walker asked about the zoning for DUS. USA responded to the zoning with
height waivers. Director Walker indicated he was OK with gutting of the inside of the
building and thought both plans had been well presented.
Phil Washington offered closing remarks. He stated he will take responsibility for the
old plans that the Directors had on the USA plan. He also reminded the Board that the
action on the table is to authorize the General Manager to begin negotiations with the
recommended team. They will spend approximately 90 days in design of the building
and the Board will be provided opportunity for input during this time.
IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 10:15 p.m.

Prepared by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, November 29, 2011
Page 7 of 7

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, November 29, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rolf Asphaug
Shirley Bennett
Bob Brown
Rick Clarke
Libby Cox
Sherry Ellebracht
Isan Fan
David Genova
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkins
Russ Larson

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L– via Conference Call
District N
District B
District J
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D

Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Chris Marko
Jerry Nery
Alice Osner
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Trent Ratcliff
Scott Reed
Jannette Scarpino
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna

John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
Cherie Sprague
Walt Stringer
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Mike Turner
Del Walker
Phil Washington
Brian Welch
Lisa Vallejo

OTHERS PRESENT
Aurita Apodaca – FRESC, Ferd Belz – USA, Ed Blair – Sage/Oxford Hotel, Anna Bogler. – UNI, Rusty
Brown - USNC, Sarah Brown - USNC,Frank Cannon-USNC, Michael Carr-Turnbough, Doug Childs –
Opon International, Jocelyn Childs, Dana Crawford - USA, Kim Corrigan, Katherine Davis – USA,
JoAnn Elston – Sage, Mark Falcone,Chris Frampton – USNC, Jerry Glick, Adam Hazlett – Sage, Jeff
Hermanson – Larimer Associates, Darren Hinton, Dennis Huspeni – Denver Business Journal, Walter
Isenberg - USA, Margaret Jackson – Denver Post, Jim Johnson – USA, Jan Lucas – Sage, Sherilyn
Luke – Sage, Kelly McCourt, Pat McHenry – Larimer Associates, Mike McPhee, Tim Mackin – Kiewit,
Dick Marshall – TDP, Kyle Miller - USA, Rob Pahl – Pahl Architecture, Rebecca Pasquariello – Sage,
Rebecca Peralta – Sage, Annie and Joseph Pruetti, Darron Roue – Kiewit, Mackenzie Snyder, Jonnie
Thomas – Trinity CEO, Haily Tweedie, Cynthia V., Cody Wortz - USA,Joe Vostrejs, Martin Willie –
USNC, Bob Wilson and Susan Wilson

