Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to Board of Directors

Date:

January 18, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
January 18, 2011 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Malpiede and Brohl were
absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were two retirees present to receive their awards.
Jose “Marty” Chavez retired as a maintenance supervisor for the support fleet with over 32.5
years of service. Marty who is married with three kids and a granddaughter, intends to work
on a large “Honeydo” list and spend time with his son Chris who is recovering from a serious
accident. Marty stated it was a pleasure working with RTD. He enjoyed working with his small
crew and having the one-on-one relationship with the employees. He is happy to move aside
and make room for the younger people.
Chair Kemp commented he has known Marty for a long time. They had worked together at
the Old Alameda Station.
Armonde Hainesworth, retired from risk management with 25 years of service. Marla Lien
introduced Armonde and stated his name is on the annals of the Court of Appeals Division as
he worked a number of cases in liability. He had a creative way of settling small claims cases,
sometimes trading bus passes to solve an issue. He was also a musician and had shared some
of his talents here. General Manager Washington added that Armonde was one of three
(Armonde, Johnny Thomas and Phil Washington) who started the COMTO Chapter in
Colorado. In the 7-8 years, this Chapter has given over $150K in scholarships to deserving
students. Armonde thanked God for his health as he continues to recover from cancer. He
also thanked his family, not only his biological family, but his RTD family. He started his career
working a hodge-podge of everything in 1985 at the bus barn on Sante Fe. He discovered a
career path along the way and would encourage employees to look at RTD for their careers.
Armonde’s extended family which included his wife, children and several grandchildren were
present in a support of love.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

Helen Bushnell, Lakewood, CO, spoke about transit should be a high priority. She specifically
referenced buses and that there are more people needing transit which she equated to bus
service, not FasTracks.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the committee reports

VI.

GM OVERSIGHT AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE—
Committee Chair Bagley shared that he and the General Manager had met last Thursday in
preparation for 2011. There will be a General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee meeting next Tuesday, January 25th at 4:30 p.m. The new committee
consists of Directors Cohen, Anderson, Malpiede, Daly, Tobiassen, and Bagley. This meeting
will be an introductory meeting.

VII.

FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY TASK FORCE UPDATE—
Director Tayer presented a presentation on expenses and revenues that the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force is trying to solve for. This is a projected $35M gap in 2012 for base
operations that will compound if not resolved. If RTD can achieve $17.5 M in expense
reduction or revenue enhancement, we can make major inroads into the problem. This
committee is looking for creative solutions and encourages Board members to be involved and
increase their participation.
Director Bagley added the material coming from this Task Force should be required reading.
He and several other directors (Anderson, Deadwyler, Daly, Hoy, and Malpiede) attended the
last meeting of this Task Force where the Task Force was fully engaged in working on a
problem definition statement.
A copy of the presentation is available with the minutes located in the Board office.

VIII.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp reported that the Metro Mayors Task Force will meet on January 27 th. He and
Director Anderson are the representatives but he also encouraged other Board members to
participate. Director McMullen asked if the composition of the Task Force changed since the
election. The Chair indicated not really. Mayor Hansen is no longer the Mayor but still
participates in the Task Force as Commissioner. The election for Mayor will not be until much
later this year.
Chair Kemp indicated he will send out a list of the Metro Mayor’s Task Force to the Board.

IX.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF December 21, 2010
MOTION:

Director Bagley moved for the adoption of the December 21,
2010 regular Board Minutes.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:
Director Hoy raised the question if the new Board members
should vote since they were not on the Board during this time.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 9 votes in favor and 0

against. New Directors, Anderson, Deadwyler, Hoy and Riley
abstained.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JANUARY 4, 2011
MOTION:

Director Cohn moved for the adoption of the January 4, 2011
Special Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Hoy indicated that the Roster of names for this meeting
indicated Director Christopher instead of him. This needs to be
corrected.
An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against subject to the above change being made.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XI.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT


APTA President Recruitment Task Force in Dallas, Texas
General Manager Washington was requested to be a member on the Recruitment for
APTA President and after discussing with the Chair, he decided to accept. The first
meeting is in Dallas Texas, 1/19/11. They will select a search firm and begin
interviewing candidates. There are 10 members of this recruitment committee from
around the country.



Presentation at the Transportation Research Board (TRB) Conference in Washington,
D.C.
The General Manager will present at the TRB Conference in Washington D.C. at the
request of FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff. He will also have an office call visit with
Mr. Rogoff. His presentation will focus on Workforce Initiative and the Employee
Training program that RTD SLT team is developing. During his office visit he will
discuss our base system operations, FasTracks, Workforce and the Minority Business
participation which is at 20% with over 200 minority contracts. RTD has set some
aggressive goals in our outreach and has exceeded our original FasTracks business
goals. We are still targeting a FFGA in mid-May.



U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) led Federal Procurement
Study on Minority-owned Businesses to increase participation.
General Manager Washington received a letter from Sean Donovan indicating they were
launching a pilot initiative to do a study on minority owned businesses. Two cities
were selected: Atlanta and Denver. This is a combined HUD/DOT study and they will
hire a consultant firm to do a survey of these businesses.



Other Matters

General Manager Washington acknowledged the receipt by the Board of a letter from
an access-a-Ride driver. He indicated staff is working the issue and will report back to
the Board.
Director Deadwyler had a number of questions pertaining to the earlier discussion on
minority participation and goals:
1. Is there a reason why only a few of the contractors on the list have a specified
goal and others do not? Phil Washington responded they set the goals based n
the scope of work and they look at the database of qualified/certified firms in
Colorado. Some of the scope of work does not allow for subcontracting or only
qualified firms can do the work.
2. Are these local contractors? Phil Washington indicated they work with certified
contractors who have been certified by the state; they have the capability to
track the % of contract completion and they never get to a point when the
contract is completed and they have not met the goal.
Director Tobiassen commented that Phil had been recognized by the Greater Metro
Denver Ministerial Alliance as part of the MLK celebration. Phil Washington thanked
Director Tobiassen and the Board for their support.
XI.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A-I on the unanimous consent agenda.

MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items A-I.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and
0 against. Directors Brohl and Malpiede were absent
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

A. Recommended May 2011 Services Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve moving the proposed May 2011 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review
and comment.
B. Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined Contribution Plan-2011
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors certifies a 2011 contribution rate to RTD’s Salaried Employees Defined Contribution
Plan of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.
C. Approval of Proposed 2011 Internal Audit Schedule
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the proposed schedule of internal audits to be performed in 2011.
D. Approval of Ciber, Inc, IT Contingency Work Order Contract Increase of Contract Not-to-

Exceed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to increase the
contract value not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with Ciber for IT Technical and
Management Support Services (Contract 15DK008). This contract was originally awarded in
2006 to Ciber through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial-year plus
four (4) one-year options to be renewed based on positive performance by the vendor. The
final option has been executed and the period of performance extended to April 24, 2011. The
proposed action increases the current contract not-to-exceed limit of $3,050,000.00 by
$300,000.00 to a new total contract not-to-exceed limit of $3,350,000.00 as well as to
extend the contract period of performance to August 31, 2011.
E. Approval of Dataman USA, IT Contingency Work Order Contract-Increase of Contract Notto-Exceed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to increase the
contract value not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with Dataman USA for IT Technical
and Management Support Services $300,000 to extend the current work order contract IT
Technical and Management Support for General Software Development Life-Cycle Services and
Migration of Legacy Software (17DK001). This contract was originally awarded May 1st, 2007
to Dataman USA, LLC (a DBE/SBE company) through the competitive bid process. The contract
allowed for an initial year plus four one year options to renew based on positive performance by
the vendor. In order to continue the fourth and final option year additional funding must be
added to the contract not to exceed. The proposed action increases the current contract notto-exceed limit of $915,000 by $300,000 to a new total contract not-to-exceed limit of
$1,215,000.
F. RTD-DRCOG Land Use Model Intergovernmental Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to complete a contract
between RTD and the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) for the completion
of the new socioeconomic modeling system of the Integrated Regional Model (IRM) project
in 2011-2013. Funding for this project is included in the 2011 Adopted Budget through an
$800,000 grant from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), with $167,000 local match
provided by DRCOG. There would be no net cost to RTD.
G. Recommendation for Contract Amendment to Kaplan Kirsch and Rockwell for Legal
Assistance- Railroad Negotiations
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to amend the current contract with Kaplan Kirsch and Rockwell
(KKR) for assistance in negotiations with the Union Pacific (UP) and BNSF Railroads by
extending the term to December 31, 2014 and authorizing additional funds up to $500,000
with $125,000 of that budgeted in 2011.
H. FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors
reappoint four members of the Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint one new
member to the Committee to a three-year term.
I. Approval of Contract for CAD/AVL-Data and Voice Radio System Contract Award

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract for the replacement of RTD’s Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic
Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) System, Data Radio Replacement System and Voice Radio
Integration (Request For Proposal (RFP) No. 19FH018) to INIT Innovations in Transportation,
Inc. (INIT) of Chesapeake, VA in an amount not-to-exceed $47,520,000. This price
includes all of the elements of a 3-year deployment followed by a 6-year warranty period.

XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
J. Fare Box Replacement Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the replacement of RTD’s fare boxes to GFI, Inc. of Elk
Grove Village, IL. in an amount not-to-exceed $10,500,000.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve the fare
box replacement contract.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Anderson asked how much does it cost to repair
fareboxes and how does that cost stack up against new
ones? When is the replacement?
General Manager Washington responded that the current
fareboxes are about 25 years old. About 4-5 years ago,
they did a rehab of approximately $3.5M which extended
the life of the fareboxes. They would need to do this
again as well as other technical support to support the
ongoing preventative maintenance at a substantial cost.
General Manager Washington indicated he thinks it will be
another 5-10 years before our cash paying customer
might go away.
We are currently capturing
approximately $100K daily in cash fare revenue.
Director Anderson asked what kind of maintenance might
be needed for new fareboxes.
General Manager
Washington responded he would expect the maintenance
costs to go down initially especially due to warranties.
etc.
Director Cohen inquired if we had reasonable amount of
assurance that reconciliation will be greater for the new
fareboxes than the old. Bruce Abel responded yes. He
stated we collected approximately 30M from the old
fareboxes and the new fareboxes would bring it up a level
to the next generation for IT support. This takes it from
record based transaction to the next generation which
provides greater data reconciliation. Director Cohen
indicated his understanding that the communications is

real time which is counting at all times.
Director Tobiassen commented this was a good back
office discussion. However, his concerns were with the
front office and the interface between drivers and clients.
Fare and transfers are major issues for the drivers. We
need to look for incentives to move users away from
fareboxes to smart card technology. Fareboxes also do
not do change.
He believes that if forced, cash
dependent riders will figure it out how to use the smart
card technology. We need to focus our time and
resources on pushing the smart card out further and
quicker.
Director O’Boyle stated the Fiscal Sustainability Task
Force is looking at a significant number as it relates to our
base operations. How does the fareboxes contribute to
that number and we need to look carefully before
spending the 10M. He agrees there needs to be an
incentive in not getting new fareboxes. What are the
implications if the farebox purchased was pushed out? If
he had to choose between significant service cuts and the
new fareboxes he would vote against the fareboxes.
Director Daly commented that the current fareboxes
require significant interaction with the drivers but a large
amount of this should decrease with the smart cards.
Director Tayer asked about the implications of waiting.
Bruce Abel responded this is the second hold request to
GFI for extension. He wanted to clarify that the farebox
and service are different pots of money. The farebox is a
1-time financed through COPS. This is a 1-time capital
expenditure. He would hate to go back to GFI for a third
extension. Director Tayer reiterated some information
that is would be good to have:

cost comparison between push to smart card
versus implementing old technology with new
fareboxes—what is the cost differentiation? What is
the problem with moving to cashless system in the
near future?
Bruce Abel responded that they had a phased
approach that would work quite well beginning with
the business and EcoPass in the first phase; 2012monthly passes into smart cards; 2013-implement
point of sales machines similar to what Director
Tobiassen was referencing. He believes also that a
substantial number of the client base will use cash for
the unforeseen future.
Director Hoy inquired if the smart card system and the

farebox linked? Bruce Abel provided the background and
indicated that two years ago, they had made the decision
to go with a sophisticated smart card system with a less
sophisticated farebox system. They are bringing the new
generation of fareboxes with much data capability than
previous. The maintenance cost and functional costs
goes down initially.
Chair Kemp stated his reasons for support of the new
fareboxes. (1) the current farebox system is 25 years
old. Maintenance costs are extreme. Even when moving
into the new technology we will still need fareboxes (2)
the new software gives us a solid base for data collection
(3) we are getting a good rebate on old fareboxes.
Replacement parts are difficult to find. (4) Current
experience has taught us that when we move to a new
software or technology, it may take a moment to debug
that software. Such could be the case with the smart
card technology. Having the new fareboxes in could help
cushion this period until the smart card technology is truly
broken in.
Director McMullen asked about the frequency of
breakdown on fareboxes and if this can disable service up
to a day. He shared a personal experience with a coworker who often comes in the office claiming another
“free “day for riding the RTD. We need effective fare
enforcement on buses.
Director Bagley summarized his understanding of the
COP. COP is used to pay for the fareboxes. This is a
bond and not an expense. This is a payout over 12 years
at a cost of 1M cash flow out per year over this 12 year
period. These are collected on the debt. If he compares
this to the cost of repair, say 4-5 million over the next
few years, he thinks the cost for these new fareboxes is
an appropriate expense.
Director James articulated a similar response. He feels we
should spend 10.5 million now to realize efficiencies and
avoid spending 3-4M in the next year or so to replace old
fareboxes.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for item J with 11 in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, James, Hoy,
Kemp, McMullen, Riley, and Tayer) and 2 against
(O’Boyle and Tobiassen). Directors Brohl and Malpiede
were absent.

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no executive session.

XV.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director Tayer thanked the staff for their assistance with getting the presentation on the
agenda.
Director Anderson thanked the Board for their patience as she understands the process about
asking her questions on the farebox award.
Director McMullen commented that he and Director Riley participated in the MLK Marade
where several people engaged in conversation with him about RTD when they say his cap. He
was proud to be associated with RTD. He saw and spoke to a number of unions that were
represented (i.e. AFL-CIO,etc). The focus was on Colorado jobs and putting Colorado back to
work.

XVI.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:03 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, January 18, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Larry Hoy
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Kenneth Riley
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District O
District M
District H
District L
District J
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District K
District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Barbara Brohl

District C
District D

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Jose Chavez
Sherry Ellebracht
Armonde Hainesworth
Terry Howerter

Austin Jenkins
Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Paula Perdue
Terry Ratcliff
Jannette Scarpino

Daria Serna
Dean Shaklee
John Shonsey
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter

OTHERS PRESENT:
Janne Bennick, Evan Burton, Helen Bushnell, Jean Chavez, Doug Connor, L. Copeland, Eric
Farrington, Susan Gaston, Amy Glasgow, Armon Hainesworth, Christina Hainesworth, Jean
Hainesworth, Micah Hainesworth, Lee Johnson, Ryan Martin, Harold Murray, Karen Murray, Leonard
Murray, Linda Murray, Charlesongean Parson, Ellen Teny, Bob Wilson.

