2021-11-09
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: The Operations and Customer Service Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Are we on Mountain Daylight Time or Mountain
Standard Time now? Directors and members of staff, please mute yourselves until you are recognized to
speak.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us this evening. The official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
continue to be held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future,
the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as
possible on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com, and scroll to the bottom of the page for the
link to the Board of Directors page. Directors and staff, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before proceeding to
speak.
Anyone participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands. I guess not anyone-- Directors and staff
to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting, if you are on the
phone, press star 6. Please note that as the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes
later on this evening, I will call on each Director in turn.
So please know that your time to speak will come. And if possible, hold your comments until then. I will
ask that the Board staff assist me in recognizing potential speakers. We're not taking public commentary
during this meeting. Members of the public who are interested in communicating to the Board members
are encouraged to do so prior to this committee meeting and/or during the monthly Board meeting.
For those dates, you can refer to the Board's meeting portal, which is located at rtd.iqm2.com. At RTD,
safety is paramount. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. With an uptick in COVID
cases nationwide, it's more important than ever that we all follow these practices, since doing so is for
your safety, as well as the safety of others.
Frequently and thoroughly wash your hands, monitor your health and the health of those close to you, be
particularly alert to the three most prevalent symptoms of COVID-19, which are fever, coughing, and
shortness of breath. Minimize the time spent in poorly ventilated, indoor public areas, especially when a
large number of people are present. And wear a mask at all times in public spaces, whether indoors or
outdoors, especially when you are unable to maintain physical distancing of at least six feet. Ms.
McManus, at this time, would you please call the role of the Directors?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you. Director Bouquet.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I saw your head nod. Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am here, good evening.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 13 present, two absent. We have a quorum.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. McManus. First, this evening, we have four recommended actions and
attendant presentations. We're going to go right to those. Her first recommended action is for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a three-year contract
with seven one-year options with HBSS Connect Corp. for an amount not to exceed $4 million. Do I have
a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: I motion.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Whoo, nobody then everybody. One, one mover, please.
SHELLEY COOK: I think it was Director Dishell. And I'll second.
BOBBY DISHELL: I was going to get you the other way, whatever works.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all right. I'll have Dishell first and Cook second. Thank you both. At this time I'm
going to ask the staff to present any pertinent information regarding the actions, noting that the action and
information was included in the packet. And Directors have had time to ask questions of staff offline.
Please raise your virtual hand wait to be recognized to speak. And let us all try and remember to state our
name for the record every time we speak. Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Michael Ford, COO. Just give a brief background on this
paratransit scheduling and management system. We began using-- RTD began using the Route Match in
2008, the software to schedule paratransit. Software has really become obsolete and doesn't function.
And it lacks the capabilities and the responsiveness from an operational environment. It lacks key
features.
The software platforms are just not keeping up with the other standard type of software that you would
see in this type of software. We have tried to do everything we can internally to make this work. We've
devoted staff time and energy and money. Again, the software is just really obsolete and just falls short of
what we need.
So we're looking to make some changes here-- again, Route Match is also looking to develop a cloudbased product that will cease to support what we currently have as well. This increased efficiency in our
paratransit software platform will provide productivity and efficiencies overall, creating about $2 to $4
million savings each year that can be used in ongoing software needs.
As you may recall, in April of this year, the Board approved a budget transfer of $4 million for 2022 budget
for software replacement. By way of discussion, we went out in August for the proposal for paratransit

platform. Three proposals were received, Ecolane, HBSS Connect Corp, and Expera Labs. In September,
there was an evaluation process by staff and people from the disabled community.
Based on the evaluation, HBSS was selected as the most qualified proposer. Again, there are no financial
impacts because the Board made adjustments in April to support this endeavor. So I will conclude my
remarks there, and I'd be happy to answer any other questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I appreciate that. I note that Director Broom does have his hand
up. Director Broom, wait one second. Anybody that wants to speak, please raise your hand, and I will call
on you. For Directors or staff that are calling into the meeting, if you wish to speak, it's star 9. Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The only question I had was, will this system be familiar to
people who use our current system to make reservations?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, sir.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, we will be working very diligently to make people more aware that this product is
being used on the East Coast, but there is an incubation period where we'll be working to implement the
system. We will be doing a lot of communication and outreach and refining as we deliver this product. So
I think people will become familiar over time if they're not familiar with this product right now.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I had a few questions. One is, I know you mentioned there were discussions with the
different abilities community. And I believe one of our advisory committees that spoke this morning, was
there any discussion-- maybe Director Williams knows-- I was not able to attend around this. I know the
discussion happened. What was the overall tone or tenor of the discussion?
MICHAEL FORD: Excuse me. Paul, can you speak to that, Paul Hamilton, regarding-DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Ford, Mr. Ford, if I may first, prior to going to staff, I wanted to just to qualify this
for Mr. Dishell if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing as we try to endeavor upon different initiatives and optimizing
different programs that we had, with that as a backdrop, we intentionally reached out to various
advocates in the disability community that are aligned with paratransit operations to garner their input and
help them enable us to better put forward a product holistically. The scheduling software is going to

enable us, through the use of our contractor, to better schedule trips to meet the new-- meet the needs of
our paratransit customer base.
And so in relationship with that, there was discussions previously recognizing that we want to be more
inclusive as we make decisions about a certain customer segment going forward. So I wanted to qualify
that first with the understanding that we have been intentional in doing that as we move forward with
these initiatives. So with that, Mr. Ford, I will now yield the forward if you'd like Mr. Hamilton to speak
more specifically as to whether or not the conversation ensued at a meeting that was held that he
referenced.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Director, or CO Johnson. Paul, can you answer that particular question?
KATE WILLIAMS: If you're speaking, Mr. Hamilton, you're muted. I see-- I see Mr. Hamilton there. I see
that he's muted. Director Dishell, can you repeat your question, just for the record?
BOBBY DISHELL: Sure. Ms. Ford mentioned the conversation that we had discussions. I just wanted to
know how they went. And specifically, I know that one of our committees met this morning and was
curious if it was discussed there. And if it was, what was their take?
KATE WILLIAMS: It was discussed. I was there. Mr. Hamilton, you have the floor.
PAUL HAMILTON: Yes, Director, can you hear me now?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, we can.
PAUL HAMILTON: Perfect Yes, it was actually discussed at our APAC Committee meeting, and they
provided us some initial input. And this goes back well over a year when we were developing a scope of
work to go out to bid. But we've had nothing but positive input in moving forward to develop, as Michael
Ford had indicated, a product that will be more responsive, provide higher productivity, greater on-time
performance than what we have right now.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Thank you. The second question was just, this might be online I'm not
seeing a lot. So I apologize. But Ms. Ford, you mentioned that we were going to save $2 to $4 million a
year and that that could go towards software services. Are those funds pre-allocated towards software
services because we're going to be realizing a savings? Or is it going to be able to be used for other
operations sort of more freely as general fund dollars?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: I'm asking the Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford, you have the floor.
MICHAEL FORD: We would like to be able to use that for updates or ongoing software replacements to
enhance the system. Technology always changes. And we want to continue to be on the cutting edge. So

we'll be able to utilize that, obviously, with this implementation. We will continue to monitor to see where
we need to put the resources. But everything will be involved in trying to improve the software, improve
efficiencies, improve our effective delivery, while also trying to be mindful of how much we're spending on
the service as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Dishell. Are there-- and I don't see any other hands. Anybody else
have questions? OK. I'm going to do this the easy way. Are there any no votes on this recommended
action? OK, hearing none, that motion passes. Everybody here counts as yes vote for the record.
OK, the second recommended action that we have this evening is for the Board of Directors to authorize
the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a contract with New Flyer to purchase 17
40-foot battery electric buses, along with associated optimal equipment, spare parts, specialty tools,
training, and extended warranties in an amount not to exceed $18,016,000. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved, Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
MICHAEL FORD: Second by Ford.
KATE WILLIAMS: I heard Director Catlin first. And who was the second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you can-- you got it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'm going to ask staff to give us some pertinent information, noting that this was
already included in the pocket. And Directors have had time to ask questions of staff offline. I see virtual
hands raised. So once we have our staff presentation, I will call on you. I believe that Mr. Worthen is
going to speak to this. Mr. Worthen, you have the floor.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Greetings, honorable Board members. Fred Worthen, AGM
of Bus Operations. As noted in the packet, staff is requesting the Board of Directors grant our General
Manager and CEO Debra Johnson authority to enter into a contract with New Flyer for the purchase of 17
40-foot electric buses along with the associated equipment, parts, tools, training, and warranties.
These buses will replace existing diesel buses that have reached their end of life. Five proposals were
received in response to the battery electric bus request for proposals. And based upon the competitive
bid process outlined in your packet, New Flyer scored the highest overall. Although New Flyer was not
the lowest cost submitted per vehicle, New Flyer offered extended warranties and options that exceeded

those of competitors. In addition, New Flyer met delivery and technical specifications, whereas some
other vendors did not.
I should also point out this contract does not include charging our infrastructure upgrades necessary to
support these vehicles. A separate RFP is under development for charging and infrastructure to support
this purchase. The purchase is funded through BW settlement funds, FGA loans or grants, and local
dollars, funding for the purchases included in a mid-term financial plan and 2022 budget. And with that,
I'm happy to answer any questions you may have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr Worthen. Directors and staff, when you speak identify, yourself, please.
I'm going to call on Director Rosenthal because I see him first.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Worthen. And sorry I didn't think to ask
this of staff beforehand. My apologies, Madam Chair. So the memo says that the likely area of operation
is East Metro. What is it, exactly does that mean? Do you have any bus line in particular that you're
considering running this on?
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: East Metro is our operating base. It is off Colfax and I-70 itself. We do not have
specific routes that these buses will be dedicated to. There are range restrictions, so we will align the
services to the best of our ability with the capabilities of the buses themselves.
But we do have a first in, first out based upon fleet type. So there are not-- we do not have any routes
where we have specific buses assigned to them, with the exception of a few very specialized services up
in the Boulder area itself.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: But as I understand it, all the electric buses we currently have are all on the 16th
Street mall, isn't that correct?
FRED WORTHEN: That is correct. They operate out of our Platte operating division itself.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And so this would potentially have these buses operate not on 16th Street mall.
Because they are 213 miles on a charge. That's a lot I mean, I don't know the average number of miles a
bus goes in a day, and maybe you could say that, because that obviously factors in.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes. Thank you for pointing that out. The BYD fleet is a specialty equipment also on
the 16th Street mall and is very specifically designed for that. So I failed to mention that. These will be
general purpose out on our fixed routes themselves. We do have a significant number of blocks that
these buses could not complete underneath of a single charge, which again goes back to why we try to
line them with blocks of service that basically are within the range of the buses as we assign them.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then finally, would you say so, compared-- obviously, as you said, I mean,
these are different types of buses than the ones that are on 16th Street mall. So would you say that this is
like a next generation of the ones that we have? Or to what extent this is a step above, let's just say, the
ones we have now. Obviously sort of a different set of area that they're going to be operating in, with
different requirements, I get that.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. Yes. The experience we will have with this particular fleet will be
significantly than the mall fleet itself. There are many things with the BYD fleet on the mall that we will not
get to experience that we will have with this new fleet of buses or next generation. For example, on the
mall, because we stop every block, we really do not get the benefit of a full generative system.
So the recharging range is lower than what we would expect with these new buses out on a regular fixed
route service itself. So yes, we do believe that this will be a good example for us to pilot how these buses
will operate in General Revenue Service, and it will be a springboard for future purchases down the road
as we learn from this procurement.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, and I'm delighted to see this purchase. Thank you, everybody.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Most of my questions were answered in the last two
speakers' interchange. But Fred, just curious, when we talk about infrastructure and charging station
costs, it's not insignificant. Are those costs items that could be partially covered with more grants, just like
the purchase of these vehicles? I would assume that's the case, but I see Debra's nodding her head. So
that's comfortable.
FRED WORTHEN: We do actually have money inside of the grants that I mentioned earlier to help with
infrastructure improvements. We are also pursuing some possibilities with funding through partnerships
with Xcel Energy. And of course, every time the grant comes up, we look for opportunities to leverage
grants for vehicle purchases and infrastructure improvements.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, Madam Chair, one other minor question if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: So range of these buses compared to the 16th Street first gen buses, what's the
comparison there?
FRED WORTHEN: Well, the 16th Street mall, we are typically getting between 80 and 100 miles out of
that, whereas these buses we expect to be in the 200-mile range. So we do expect that we will get a
better capacity. I would say that these also have larger batteries on site, on them also. So that does help
with the distance. But as I mentioned earlier, the regenerative factor is also a major factor in distance
itself. And we believe that we'll get better regenerative out of these newer buses.

TROY WHITMORE: Certainly. Technology improvement's a wonderful thing in most industries. That's all I
have. Sure good to see you, Fred. It's been a long time. I'll yield my time, Madam Chair.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you all. I know I'm quite excited about it. And I
was really excited to see this recommended action pop up. What is this going to kind of look like with the
deployment of these vehicles? When are these vehicles going to be operational and used for our
customers?
FRED WORTHEN: We expect delivery in late 2022. Of course, it always takes some time to process on
vehicles. And we are on track to have the infrastructure installed before the vehicles actually arrive. I
would guess that we would probably have these on the streets in early 2023, based upon the existing
delivery schedule.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. And all 17 by early 2023?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. I yield the rest of my time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Are these vehicles built in China?
FRED WORTHEN: No, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was easy. OK, thank you, Director Broom. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. This might be a silly question, but I believe our current
electric fleet is BYD, and our new fleet will be-- I already forgot the name.
KATE WILLIAMS: New Flyer.
FRED WORTHEN: New Flyer.
KATE WILLIAMS: New Flyer.
BOBBY DISHELL: It will not be BYD. Do all this software talk to each other? Like, how does the software
talk to each other, talk to our system? I know that our IT team does not do a light lift. And so are we losing
efficiencies? Is this going to all work, I guess?

Is there going to be increased costs on software? Is software included in the contract? Are we going to be
seeing sort of more cost coming from this?
FRED WORTHEN: So there are different components, and that's a very complex answer, question to
answer. If you're asking if this fleet will be compatible with our BYD fleet, no, it will not be. BYD has their
own charging infrastructure. And the way the existing fleet works, the AC and DC charge, it was
converted on the bus versus at the charging station itself.
We are-- as part of our charging and infrastructure procurement, we are looking for something that is
open architecture. So we will not be constrained like we are with the BYD fleet itself. And as we start
developing specs, part of that will be purchasing an electric load management system that will help with
the charging infrastructure.
That is a completely separate RFP. It will not be part of the bus purchase itself.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. And just for example, do our diesel fleets, is it common for us to purchase
different providers, or is there really only one provider?
FRED WORTHEN: No, we have a multitude of different providers. We have MCI coaches that provide
over-the-road fleet. We have Gillig. We have BYD's on the electric side. We have had many different
providers over the years.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Mr. Worthen, if I may further address Director Dishell's question, just for
everyone's edification, recognizing that we have to have fair and open competition when we leverage a
procurement. We can't specify that there has to be one original equipment manufacturer, hence to the
point-- the point that Mr. Worthen raised, that we do have manufacturers that vary across the fleet
because we put forward standard specifications. And the proposals which we received that contain five
met those specifications as outlined in our request for proposal with the specific-- with the specific desires
that we have for our operating environment.
So to that end, it's par for the course and natural for us to go forward with this because we would be doing
sole source procurements which would be in violation of Federal Transit Administration guidelines. So I
just wanted to qualify that so you understand that's why we have this going forward.
And more so, as we look at the zero-emission technology, that's why it's so important as we work in
earnest with our partners at APTA and around the industry as a whole that there is some uniformity
because right now, there are so many different aspects that are prevalent in reference to utilizing
inductive charging, plug-ins, overhead charging, and things of the like. That's the point that Mr. Worthen
was raising as we talk about infrastructure and the needs to support getting a separate procurement.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Dishell, more? Yes, no?
BOBBY DISHELL: Nothing further. Looking forward to it. Thank you all.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. If you and Director Broom would put your hands down, that would be great.
And then I will call on Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, thank you. One quick follow-up about schedule. Will the vehicles have some
indication, or will somebody be able to tell that they're electric? Or can we make sure there's some
indication on there? I think it would be a nice thing to have, to show people what we're doing here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I could take that question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sorry, Madam Chair. I know it's awkward, and I don't want to jump over you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're fine. You can have the floor any time you want to.
DEBRA JOHNSON: That question has to do with branding because I do think it's important that we can
design and leverage a livery that makes it apparent to all that are utilizing it that we're doing our job in
helping to sustain planet Earth and reducing our carbon footprint. So that's something that we can do to
make these clearly identifiable as we go forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. We're going to have you go stand out there and give out
buttons that say, I rode a battery electric bus. OK, I do not see any other hands up at this time. So we're
going to go about the same way. Are there any no-votes, anybody who would like to vote against this
recommended action?
OK, hearing no no-votes, we'll take that as unanimous, and we will go on to the third recommended
action. This one is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, to enter into a three-year contract with two one-year options, with First Transit contractor for the
provision of Group 31, fixed route transit service. The total five-year "not to exceed" amount for the
contracted service and associated fuel costs purchased at a contracted rate is $191,591,304. And I'm
going to ask-- Mr. Ford, should I just go straight to Mr. Worthen?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do we need a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot that part. Yes. Can I have a motion, please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Buzek.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Hang on, the Chair and Director Buzek. OK, now I'm going to go to the staff. Mr.
Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. Madam Chair, Fred Worthen will be handling this one as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Mr. Worthen, speak to us.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations again. As
previously mentioned, staff is requesting authority to allow our General Manager and CEO to enter into a
three-year contract with two one-year options with First Transit for the provision of Group 31 fixed route
transit services. As stated in a Board briefing packet, RTD operates up to 58% of the District's vehicular
service under contract with qualified private businesses, nonprofit businesses, or local governments,
pursuant to competitively negotiated contracts.
The contract before you is a replacement of the existing group 27 contract, set to expire May 12, 2022.
Most of the services operated under the contract serve the central and northern portions of RTD service
area. One bidder responded to the RFP for Group 31 service's First Transit. First transit has partnered
successfully with RTD and provided many services for many years to RTD. And they are the existing
vendor of the Group 27 service package that this contract replaces.
Staff found the price proposal submitted by First Transit to be fair and less expensive than if services
were operated by RTD directly. A complete cost and financial impact analysis included in your briefing
packet. Funds for the contract are included in the 2022 budget. And as is the case with all contracts,
budgets for outlying years will be subject to Board approval during the annual budget process. With that, I
am happy to answer any questions you may have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr Ford. Directors, if you have a question, please raise your hand.
Crickets. OK. I see no hands up, probably because Mr. Worthen gave us such great explanation. I'm
going to note, as I have neglected to do in the past, that the mover was the Chair, and the second was
Director Buzek. Are there any no-votes on this motion?
OK, seeing no votes, we are unanimous. And we will go on to the fourth recommended action, which is
for the Board of Directors to approve the 2022 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, known as an
acronym that I don't pronounce well that's like PTASP, as is required by 49 CFR, parts 674 and 673 and
4CCR-723-7 Rule 7345. And I would like to have a motion, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I will second it.
KATE WILLIAMS: And who was that also speaking? Director Davidson?
ERIC DAVIDSON: Director Davidson.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. OK, now we have a movement and a second. I think we will see if we
have staff that wants to give us some information. Ms. Johnson, do you have anything you wan to add to
this one?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Before I yield the floor to Dan McClain,
who is our Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental as well as serving as our Chief Safety Officer
with the auspices over light rail and fixed route, I wanted to publicly acknowledge the efforts put forward
by Mr. McClain in addition to members of the leadership team.
As you can see in the staff report, relative to the Federal Transit Administration publishing the PTASP
Final Rule back in 2018, there were a lot of questions and quandary about how agencies would go
forward in doing this. And I know prior to my arrival to the agency last year, this document had come
forward for you all's consideration. Recognizing that that was the first out the gate, I know the agency was
touting that it was one of the first agencies to submit its PTASP.
But what I will say, the document before you is very indicative of what we are doing here at the Regional
Transportation District as it relates to our Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. I want to also state
that this was an effort in earnest that really exhibited the values that have been identified in our strategic
plan as it relates to the passion that's contained therein, the collaboration, trustworthiness, respect, and
clearly the diversity of different thoughts, experiences, with people coming together, being open to new
ideas and continuous improvement.
More so, this PTASP really illustrates how there is clear-cut, a clear-cut intersection or a nexus, I should
say, with the strategic plan. So with that, I want to acknowledge Leah Riley, our Chief Administration
Officer, and Michael Ford, our Chief Operating Officer, who basically heeded my direction in reference to
us pulling together a group to lean into this because, as it stood before, I was not comfortable as the
accountable Executive signing off on the previous plan, as it did not really envelop the spirit in which we
need to go about safety.
And hence, that's why we have it now located centrally in the organization because safety is paramount
and is incumbent upon all of us. And I want to thank Dan McClain, once again, for leading into the
challenge and rising to the occasion. And with that, I will now yield the floor to Mr. McClain to take you all
through the presentation in and of itself and also acknowledge that we have been working in tandem with
our partners at FTA as well as the Colorado Public Utilities Commission because, through the relationship
and the understanding, they granted us an extension, recognizing that there had been some changes
with our safety reporting here at this organization. So with that, Mr McClain, please take it away.
DANIEL MCCLAIN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to-- Dan, can you wait one second? I want to note that we have lost Director
Whitmore for the moment. And he would like us to be aware of that. He'll do his best to get back on.
Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And I apologize. Mr. McClain, go ahead.

DANIEL MCCLAIN: No worries. Thank you, General Manager Johnson. We'll go ahead and-- the
background behind, again, General Manager Johnson gave you the background behind the efforts that
were put in place. Really, the big thing is alignment with the strategic plan and the strategic priorities so
we're not doing two different things.
It actually, it provides a synergy and a direction that they're aligned that really help us dig deeper into
safety and the PTASP to achieve our mission to achieve our strategic outcomes. And the strategic plan
was developed in such a way that these activities actually align with the new PTASP, and it will get us to
where we need to go moving forth.
Why do we do this? The reason we do this is for employee, contractor and customer safety. The way the
PTASP is designed, the way we've changed things around, and how we administer the PTASP allows us
to demonstrate our shared values. The passion around caring for our employees, having a safe system,
making sure that everything we do is the best effort we put forth, to make sure the customer gets the
experience they need and that we work with our employees so they have that ownership to be able to be
heard and be cared for.
Why? We went through the regulations, as Director Williams did. The FTA established 674, and 674
establishes the oversight of fixed rail, fixed guideway rail public transportation systems. And under that, it
stated that all states that had the rail system in place required to designate a state safety oversight
agency. And for the state of Colorado, that's the Public Utilities Commission.
Part 673 is the part that tells us, as a Regional Transportation Agency, we have to have a safety
management system put in place and describes all the requirements for there. The Public Utilities
Commission Program Standard blends those two together. And that's really what we're following here
under the PTASP.
What's the PTASP? The PTASP is basically a snapshot of our safety management systems. It documents
our processes, includes our safety performance targets, and is required to be updated annually and
approved by the Board. FTA, this is the only part of the transit agency that requires Board approval of the
program.
What's a safety management system? It's really a series of interconnected and interdependent processes
that enable safe and healthy workspaces. They prevent work-related injuries. They look for continuous
improvement.
They make sure what we build and design and inspect is ready to run and is always in top shape. And it
requires a formal, top-down, agency-wide, data-driven management approach. And hopefully you've read
at least the first 10 pages of the PTASP. It really describes what's required in there from the agency and
from the Board.
So what's new in 2022? Again, alignment with the strategic plan. It's really, how did the PTASP support
the mission? And how did we intertwine the strategic priorities into the PTASP?

So when we were executing the PTASP, we're actually delivering on our strategic priorities. We narrowed
the focus down, so we were doing what we said we're doing. We're doing the trustworthiness part of this
in our value. We're going to say we're going to do this, and we're going to do this.
We're not just going to say it and have way too many things in there that we couldn't deliver, as we
sometimes did in the past. It's also reflective, as General Manager Johnson indicated, of our new
alignment, in that safety is brought underneath Administration and that all of the support functions are in
Administration. It allows us to work together. And a huge advantage of that is initiatives that go out from
HR or safety.
Nobody knows who's doing what. Now it's all in one, so we can really be focused on the impact that we
have and being successful in putting sustainable processes in place. Line management accountability,
the 673, the FTA, and the PUC says the accountable Executive is the GM and CEO. So that's Ms.
Johnson. And from there, we're going to cascade that accountability down.
It was a major shift, in that previously we had safety managed by committees. We will still have employee
engagement safety committees and project teams that work together, but the real core of making sure we
get done what we said we're going to get done falls on the line management accountability. Crossorganizational coordination, again, that's the beauty of being in Administration. And we're all talking the
same thing.
We know the priorities, and we're aligned with the strategic principles. Well, working with the team that we
recognized, Michael Ford, Leah, Fred Worthen, and Dave Jensen, Henry Stopplecamp, we established
these safety performance targets. These are required to be established under the National Transportation
Safety Plan.
And each one of these components is something we have to measure and monitor. And they do provide,
and they support our values, help us demonstrate our values, reducing on-the-job injuries, lost time days.
Those are all costs and personal cost to our employees and costs that we have to pay out in
compensation planning.
So what activities are described in the PTASP for 2022? The focus is going to be on event notification,
reporting, and investigation. We need to start learning from what happens within our organization, and
then work on preventative processes and activities to make sure we have less of the bad things happen,
more of the good things happen.
We're going to improve leadership and employee training, so everyone knows their roles. Everyone is
competent in what they're doing and can be successful in their task. We're also going to start with pre-job
safety briefing.
This is common among heavy industry. It's where there's somebody that doesn't do a job frequently, or
it's high risk, kind of like a confined space permit, right? So that's the job briefing. So we look at the risk.
Those are the top safety activities.

Our next steps, the timeline tonight and next week, the Board consideration and action on this. December
1, by December 1, it has to be submitted to the Public Utilities Commission. And then Q1 2022 is when
we'll continue to roll out the changes in the PTASP to all the staff, the key roles and responsibilities,
communication of the safety targets. The safety policies will be reinitiated out into the facilities, and
engagement with the employees as we do that.
We also have to share the performance targets with DRCOG. And again, that's part of the National
Transportation Safety Plan that requires us to share those safety performance targets with our
metropolitan planning agencies and the state. And our ongoing activities, through all of us, as part of
RTD, is we're going to monitor the implementation.
How are we doing on what we said we're going to do? Safety performance-- is it making a difference?
And then making sure that we're always aligning back to the strategic plan and using that as our
galvanization pole, our North Star. Questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do not. Mr. McClain, yeah, you can stop sharing. I do see-- Director Davidson has a
hand up. Go ahead, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. McClain. I really appreciate it, really comprehensive, very
impressive, and love the tie-in to strategic plan, and also just very, very clear report.
A lot has been done since we saw you in April. So thank you for all of that. It's really big. I had just two
questions. One, when we did look through this in April, unfortunately, a lot of our injuries and incidences
were quite a bit ahead of the national average, both on urban and just in general.
I'm just curious, in terms of-- we have a very near-term plan and some near-term goals here that align
with our strategic mission. But you know, is there a long-term plan, and perhaps this is for Ms. Johnson, is
there a long-term plan to get us closer to national average ahead of national average? Especially in an
effort when we are in a tight labor market here to compete? Just in terms of long-term vision, given that
we're starting a little bit behind, what's some of the thinking there?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I can, Mr. Davidson, Director Davidson, excuse me. So basically, we have to
start at a place, recognizing-- I recall vividly our discussion that we had back in April, as we talked about
targets, right? And so just as we're doing with the myriad of the other aspects of our strategic plan, we
have to have a baseline.
And whether it's good, bad, or indifferent, as Mr. McClain indicated, that we really never had any targets
from the outset. And so now, intensively working in tandem with the collective members of the leadership
team and their respective staff. Especially as we look at those within operations and our facility
maintenance, we are starting at the point where we see that we want to decrease that by 5%.
So once we're there, we're going to have reach goals as we move forward and work with that in earnest
because of the point Mr. McClain raised as well. As we look to see where we are and we want to do
notification process, we need to discern what the causal factors are. And we didn't really do that.

So if we know that basically, we have a lot of slip trips and falls because people aren't wearing the
appropriate work boots, right? Or perhaps we're using a certain kind of wax on the floor that maybe is not
conducive for somebody traversing that area in a quick fashion.
Then we can make those adjustments as we go forward and then delve back to discern how that basically
is helping us mitigate what that incident is, and as we go forward, put that in place through multiple
trainings and things of the like. Does that address your question?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. Yeah, makes sense. We are where we are. We're measuring this. And I think
in your answer there, actually answered a follow-up question I had, so that's great. And yeah, thanks.
I look forward to seeing the progress next year now that we have some of these metrics. And I appreciate
there's a part of the report, I know, on root cause analysis and certainly something that, it's odd to say
look forward to. I mean, ideally, we wouldn't have incidences, but look forward to understanding some of
those root causes and how those metrics are changing.
So I'll leave it there. And yeah, thank you very much. And thanks for all the work that was done on this.
Anyone could read this and follow this and understand our process, which I think is a huge step forward.
So thank you for that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Quite a bit of a team effort there
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson and Ms. Johnson. Director Catlin, I see your hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And actually, as usual, Director Davidson anticipated my
comments. And I just wanted to remark that I'm so pleased to see this common thread of tying all of these
plans to our overall strategic goals.
And I just appreciated that common theme throughout your presentation, and it's really important,
particularly with our employee ownership piece, I think. And it also translates to our customer service
piece because if we are a safe agency, then our customers naturally feel safe.
So I just wanted to thank you for a great presentation. Look forward to seeing some of the actual results
of the metrics that we've put forward. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Catlin. I don't think you needed any answer to any of that. Chair
Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I don't need any answers. I just want to say
how incredibly pleased I am at seeing the presentation. It is so user friendly, and it is so connected to the
hard work that we've all worked on with the strategic plan, with our General Manager.
And I just want to take this opportunity to congratulate her on her one-year anniversary this evening and
say, you know, yeoman's work. This is pretty astounding. So thank you, Madam Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. OK, thank you, Madam Chair.
Director Broom, I think you're up next.
BOB BROOM: THANK you, Madam Chair. I don't know whether public health comes under this category
or not, but I'm just curious about how RTD is weathering the pandemic, when you read that the numbers
of people being hospitalized in Colorado are really spiking upward. Are we staying pretty much the same,
or how is that going?
KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. Johnson, do you want to speak to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I will. Thank you very kindly. So as Mr. McClain outlined, this is basically
coming from the Federal Transit Administration as we talk about our safety overarchingly as it relates to
our transit network and our facilities as a whole.
But with that, moving forward to the question you posed about where we are with the pandemic, I want to
give a qualifying response, and then I may yield the floor to Mr. McClain. So recognizing that I made a
commitment to you all as we're monitoring this going forward, we are looking at the health and safety and
the well-being of our employees collectively, recognizing that right now, Colorado has-- I think we're
number five.
And maybe Dan has more up-to-date information. But as of yesterday, as relates to hospitalizations, as it
relates to COVID, I'm actually holding a meeting tomorrow with Dan and Leah-- and Leah Reilly, I
apologize, our Chief Administration Officer, in addition to our human resources Senior Manager, John
McKay of my office, as we talk about our path forward.
There's a lot of different information we're taking into consideration before making a determination. I
recognize that the state holistically hasn't come out and said what's going to happen, but I made a
commitment in my role as a leader of the organization to ensure that we are providing an environment
where people feel safe. So we'll be fluid, or flexible I should say, as we make determinations in the next
couple of days.
And I am expecting to have conversations with our employees during the course of what I qualify as
dialogue with Debra at my virtual all-hands meetings that I have as well. And so circling back as relates to
what it is that we're doing, we're monitoring it closely. I know Dan and his staff are working as it relates to
some of our facilities that are in the operating realm at our divisions as they qualify as outbreak sites.
We have safety protocols that are in place. Information is disseminated electronically to all employees,
alerting them to that fact. And we have a lot of different protocols in play. Mr. McClain, will you add just
some other more specific notable information in a succinct fashion to support what I-- well, not necessarily
support, to supplement what I've just outlined?
DANIEL MCCLAIN: Absolutely, General Manager Johnson. To address it, Director Broom, we have an
increase, and it's about-- it's not as steep as what it is, what you're seeing in the hospitalization and what
you're seeing in the state. But we have had an increase of cases. We had recently had an outbreak--

there was an outbreak at our Lot E light rail facility. And just this week, we had considered an outbreak at
East Metro.
But we are taking precautions. We're taking precautions all the time. And when there's an outbreak, it's
daily symptom and temperature checks. And then we have to wear the masks. And in the meeting we're
going to have tomorrow, we're going to determine if we close the common spaces again, if we close the
wellness facilities just because of the community outbreak.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. McClain.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And just one follow-up point-- when we say outbreak, Dan, correct me if I'm wrong,
that's when there's five cases. So when you think about the number of employees, we were talking about
five. I'm not trying to minimize that. But that is of concern to us collectively. So wanted just to quantify and
qualify what we mean when we say outbreak because that's been determined by the Health Department.
Is that correct, Mr. McClain?
DANIEL MCCLAIN: That is correct. And in many of the cases, they are doing better system tracing. And
many of the cases aren't related to what we do. And so they're doing better tracing and finding out where
they come from.
And the five number is new. They changed the rules. It used to be two, but now it's five. But it's five
numbers, five confirmed cases within 10 days at one location.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr McClain, for that clarification. Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Broom, does that answer your question, sir?
BOB BROOM: Pretty much. The only other question I had was the acceptance of the plastic enclosures
that were installed on the buses. How is that working out?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So you're talking about the polycarbonate barriers that we basically put on our entire
fleet back in December.
BOB BROOM: Yes, yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. And so, this is purely speculative to the point that Mr. McClain raised. We can't
deduce if someone contracted COVID while they were on the vehicle, per se. But it has provided a level
of, I should say, security from the sense of engaging with others.
Because of the point Mr McClain was raising, as we talk about contact tracing, recognizing we have
employees coming from different places and things of the like. So they could be carrying something in
versus actually contracting it here. But we don't have any data to showcase, to verify that.
But this is purely speculative from that vantage point. Mr McClain, do you have anything else to add as it
relates to the polycarbonate shields?

DANIEL MCCLAIN: No, I just had that Mr. Worthen, it would have the feedback. I think most of the
operators embrace them. And it has-- in this time of requiring masks, and there's been a lot of
engagements. And the barriers have helped minimize the output. I think that's right. Mr. Ford, is that
correct?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, I would just-- yeah, I would just also just say that kind of supplements with the
masks, the wipes, the sprays, and other things that we provide to our employees for their protection. So it
all works in tandem together.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much for the update.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome. And just for a note, I will be providing an update as well during my
General Manager report as it relates to these elements which I've made a commitment to do on a
recurring basis. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you all, for all of that feedback. Do I see any other hands up? Anybody else
have a question on this subject matter? OK, thank you, Mr McClain. That was a great report. I
appreciated it myself.
I had Chair Rivera-Malpiede as a mover, and Director Davidson is second. Are there any no-votes on this
recommended action? OK, seeing none, we are unanimous. And we will move on to the next part of the
agenda, which is discussion items.
I am not aware of any discussion items at this time. Anyone else? OK, hearing none, we'll go to other
matters. Do we have any other matters that you want to bring forth at this committee?
None of those either. OK, a couple of things here, housekeeping, the next meeting date. There will not be
a meeting of this committee in December. The next meeting will be in January of 2022. That date is yet to
be determined, but we will post it on the RTD website and calendars as soon as it has been determined.
We will be moving to the next meeting. But I'm going to call for a five-minute break in between. And this
meeting stands adjourned at 6:30 PM. Good job, folks. Anybody?

