Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

July 6, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, July 5, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.

Special Board Meeting
I.

Call to Order
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Roll Call
There were twelve (12) Board members present at roll call. Directors Malpiede, Riley
and Tobiassen were absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp indicated that Director Brohl had an announcement to make to the Board of
the whole and also to staff.
Director Brohl noted that she had recently been appointed by Governor Hickenlooper to
lead the Department of Revenue and was humbled and honored to have that
opportunity. In order to devote the necessary time and attention toward that position
she would not be able to devote the time and attention to RTD that the agency requires
and deserves. Therefore, it is with mixed emotions that Director Brohl submitted her
letter of resignation from the RTD Board of Directors effective July 15, 2011. Director
Brohl added that she has been privileged to be a part of such a great agency for the
past six and a half years and has no doubt that RTD will continue to work to serve the
public for decades to come. Also, Director Brohl wished to thank the constituents in
District D who trusted her to be their voice, and knows that they will be well taken
care of by their next Director. Director Brohl further added her accolades for her fellow
Board members indicating there is no other group she would wish to face challenges
with than this one, noting that everyone does amazing things, and gives 110 percent all
of the time. She also expressed her thanks to the dedicated and committed staff at
RTD for excellence in their work.
Chair Kemp offered on behalf of the Board, Congratulations and stated Director Brohl
will be missed. This is a great opportunity not only for Director Brohl, but for the State
of Colorado as well. Addressing the Board and staff, Chair Kemp explained that when a
Board Member resigns, it becomes the responsibility of the county of the most voters
within her district to appoint someone until the next general election.
Marla Lien added that someone will be appointed by the county with the most eligible
electors based on notification from each of the county clerks and that person will serve
until December of 2012.
Chair Kemp noted that District D will be vacant for a few weeks until an official

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 2 of 4
notification is received indicating the responsible county and the respective county has
named and approved their appointee.
III.

Action Items
A.
Resolution No. _____, Series of 2011 Regarding Execution of Contracts with the
E-470 Public Highway Authority Related to the East Corridor Commuter Rail
Line of FasTracks.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to approve Resolution No. ____,
Series of 2011 Regarding Execution of Contracts with the E-470
Public Highway Authority Related to the East Corridor Commuter
Rail Line of FasTracks.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Anderson inquired if staff was comfortable with all the
requirements of this contract. Greg Straight indicated that staff
was, and that staff had spent a good amount of time negotiating
this contract.
Rick Clarke added that we have spent a few years going through
this and the essential requirements that are in this contract were
billed into our RFP for the concessionaire so these requirements
are not anything that we would have to pay extra for.
An electronic vote was taken with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, O’Boyle, and Tayer) and 0 against. Directors
Malpiede, Riley, and Tobiassen were absent from this vote.
Chair Kemp declared this action PASSED.

B.

Resolution No. ____, Series of 2011 Concerning A Federal Full Funding Grant
Agreement for the Eagle P-3 Project.

Chair Kemp read into record the language of the resolution concerning a Federal Full
Funding Grant Agreement for the Eagle P-3.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to approve Resolution No.
____, Series of 2011 Concerning A Federal Full Funding Grant
Agreement for the Eagle P-3 Project.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

IV.

Other Matters

An electronic vote was taken with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, O’Boyle, and Tayer) and 0 against. Directors
Malpiede, Riley, and Tobiassen were absent from this vote.
Chair Kemp declared this action PASSED.

Chair Kemp indicated that there were no other matters for tonight’s Special Board
Meeting.
V.

Adjourn to FasTracks

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 3 of 4

The meeting adjourned at 5:45 p.m. to the FasTracks Committee.

Prepared by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 4 of 4

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, July 5, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Brohl
Larry Hoy
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle

District I
District O
District M
District H
District L
District D
District J
District M
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kenneth Riley
Tom Tobiassen

District C
District K
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Susan Altes
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Kenn Hardin
Terry Howerter
Brian Iacono
Kate Iverson
Austin Jenkins

Marla Lien
Patrick McLaughlin
Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Chris Quinn
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
Julie Skeen

Jim Starling
Greg Straight
Walt Stringer
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Mike Turner
Bill Van Meter
Ashland Vaughn
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT
Ken Burns – CAC, David Cohen – Alameda Station, Jeff Leib – Denver Post, James Roum –
DURA, Debra Wilcox – CAC, and Tom Wooten – Alameda Station

