2022-10-12
Operations and Safety Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Operations Customer Service
Committee. As soon as I get the agenda up here, we will call this meeting to order. Please stand by for
just one second. Thank you.
OK. Now, Operations and Safety Committee, chaired by the Co-chair Kate Williams, will now come to
order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM. I would respectfully ask anyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself, unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you, all, for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meeting of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and
welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom.
They will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as possible on the Board's website. You can visit RTDDenver.com and
scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page and information.
Directors and Members of Staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to
speak. Speaking out of turn adds confusion to the records to these proceedings. Directors and staff
participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by
pressing Star 9. To toggle your mute setting, if you are on the phone, press Star 6.
I would now like to call the role for the Committee Members. I'm going to do that myself, I guess. Director
Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis? No? Director Tisdale. No?
DOUG TISDALE: Present. Sorry, it wouldn't get off mute.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all right. I cannot see because I'm trying to read the agenda. So I don't see you.
Dr. Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I am here, and I apologize for my tardiness to this meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all right. I'm going to finish this introduction, and then I'm going to hand it back to
you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sounds good. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: I am also here. We are only missing Director Lewis. For the record, I also see on the-let me go back over here, and then I can see what other Directors are also here. I see Director Catlin,
Director Rivera-Malpiede-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director Broom.
KATE WILLIAMS: --Director Broom is there. Is that it?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Did you say Director Catlin? My apologies.
KATE WILLIAMS: I said Director Catlin.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: I wouldn't miss Director Catlin.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oops.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I would now like to have this view at the public comment section, and I would like
to hand this back to you, Chair Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. All righty.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the Committee regarding any
topic listed. If you you'd like to speak and have not done so, please, either raise your virtual hand, or
press Star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when your turn is to speak.
If you are dialed in, press Star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind, by participating in this
process, you're being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be
submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Committee, or if any member of the
public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the
following email address-- RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com. During public comment, the Committee
will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers following their comments, if
they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up.
Speakers shall begin their remarks by stating, or should begin their remarks by stating, their names. And
each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Our first speaker is-- do we have anybody in queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We have Richard Bamber.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Go ahead, Richard. Richard?
RICHARD BAMBER: Yeah, hi. Can you hear me?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Yep, we can hear you.
RICHARD BAMBER: All right. I'll keep this brief because you've probably all heard these comments
before. We've heard nothing from the ebike thing. It seems to have gone quiet.

We asked questions at the last Board and haven't heard anything. If somebody, a member of our City
Staff would like to reach out to me, give us an update, that would be much appreciated. Reiterating
operations and safety, the bus crash on the park road and R Line derailment, so we reiterate our desire to
once-- investigations, our preliminary investigations are complete. To see a report on that, and that's
about it. Thanks.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. And Barbara, is there anybody next?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no one else is in the queue.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Queue, are there any emailed comments received from tonight's meeting, do you
know?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There were no comments emailed to the Board Office.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Okey-doke. So with no other participants in the queue, and no other-- or nothing
emailed to us, we're going to close the public comment period at this time. So let's go on to Item Number
C, information from external entities.
There is no information from external entities this month. We'll go to D, recommended actions. There are
two recommended actions on the agenda this evening.
The first item is the January 2023 Title VI, Service Equity Analysis for the Board of Directors to adopt the
Title VI Service Equity Analysis report for January 2023 service changes to comply with federal laws,
regulations, and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as well as to meet the 2021
to 2026 strategic plan priority of community value. Do we have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll move, Director Williams.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Directors Williams and Bouquet first and second motion. I'd like to ask Carl Green,
Jr., an Interim Director of Civil Rights, and Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development, to
present this item.
CARL GREEN JR: Good evening, Board of Directors, and fellow meeting attendees. I'll go ahead and pull
up the slide deck.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
CARL GREEN JR: All right. So good evening. Again, my name is Carl Green, Jr., Interim Director of the
Civil Rights. And tonight, along with Senior Manager for Service Planning and Scheduling, we'll be
presenting on the service equity analysis for the January 2023 Runboard.
So to give you, everyone, an overview of what to expect, the-- I will be discussing the proposed service
changes summary, the Federal Transit Administration requirements. I will go over the Title VI and Service
Equity Analysis Overview, the Title VI policies that apply to the analysis, as well as the methodology, as
well as discuss the route and network level analysis and conclusions, and then conclude with
recommendations, and then open it up to the floor for any questions.

So before I go over the process, the equity analysis process, and conclusions, I'll pass it over to Jessie
Carter to discuss the summary of the service changes.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you, Carl. Just to be brief, basically, the January 2023 service change is
largely comprised of proposals aimed at improving on-time performance, and compliance with the
District's Collective Bargaining Agreement. There are also several service improvements related to the
System Optimization Plan, which was adopted in July of this year, through Reimagine RTD. And there are
a number of other customer requests that we're also trying to comply with.
We do have one proposal that is listed as a reduction of service, but I want to be clear with that one. What
we're doing there on the 120L is, actually, eliminating a deviation on weekends to the Adams County
Administration campus, which is-- that's actually closed on the weekends. So we think that that has
minimal impact.
Other notable changes include schedule adjustments to light rail operations to improve on-time
performance, and resequencing some of the trips so that our services don't get in the way of each other
and allow our operators to get their proper respite time. Also, last but not least, we are formalizing the
discontinuance of the C and the F Line, which are currently not in operation. But the discontinuance of
those lines were also included in the Systems Optimization Program, which was adopted by the Board of
Directors, again, in July of this year.
So with that, I'll return back to Carl.
CARL GREEN JR: Thank you, Jessie. All right. So FDA requirements for service changes-- as noted in
the Board report, the FTA Title VI circular, which is the policy guidance for trans agencies directs the
requirement for any major service changes for the agency to perform a service equity analysis to ensure
that there are no adverse effects or impacts to Title VI populations for major service changes that would
last longer than 12 months. And this analysis must be brought before the Board for their awareness,
review, and approval prior to the service changes going into effect.
The authority that sets the legal precedent is the Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. And a key
evaluation tool to ensure that transit agencies are upholding the assurances under Title VI and the FTA
guidance for service changes is the Service Equity Analysis. So this is an overview of the major decision
points and the questions that my office, along with support with Jessie and his team, on moving forward
with the Equity Analysis.
So as you see on this visual depiction of this, you can see Step 1 is to evaluate the type of change. We
start with, given that this is a service change, we're looking at whether it meets the threshold for a major
service change. If the answer to that question is yes, Step 2 is evaluating the possible impacts,
specifically, disparate impact for minority and/or disproportionate burden for low income populations.
If the answer to that question is no, no further action is required. However, if there are potential impacts
for Title VI populations, the agency must move forward with either minimizing, mitigating, or avoiding that
impact, so i.e., evaluating the alternatives and changing, or changing course, or addressing those matters
to ensure that minority-- or Title VI populations aren't unduly impacted by the service changes. And just
for note, I may make reference to equity populations. And just so that we're clear and-- is that I'm referring
to minority and low income populations.

So now, I'll go give everyone an overview of the Title VI policies, which we utilize in order to assess the
nature of the changes, as well as whether there are any potential impacts on these populations. So first,
we start with the Major Service Change Policy. By definition, it's a 25%, plus or minus-- so an increase or
decrease-- in the service hours of any route that would remain in effect for over 12 months or longer.
And based off of this initial assessment, this is a conversation and meetings that I have with Jessie and
his team on getting a better understanding of what those changes are. And through this computation and
assessment, by result-- the result of the major service change is that one of the changes met the Major
Service Change threshold as an increase. And then as Jessie alluded to, the C and F Lines that were
previously suspended, given that, although, they were previously suspended by virtue of the Title VI
circular, if there is a permanent discontinuance, it's a matter of formality that we conduct an analysis on
those lines.
So now I'll go over the Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policies. I may reference this as DI
and DB policies moving forward, or Title VI policies, to lessen the amount of time to say that fully. So just
for simplicity's sake, I'll be using Title VI policy or reference as DI or DB policy.
So, essentially, what we're looking at here is, if you look at the visual diagram on the screen here, for
testing for Disparate Impact at the system level, this is also applied at the route level where we can see in
the blue bar chart there's-- if you look at the aggregate of population-- so non-minority population that
would be impacted either positively or negatively-- we can see that there's 25% of that population would
be impacted. And then given that, we have by virtue of our DI and DB policy, if it's a service increase, if
you do the math-- so the threshold calculation-- so 10% of that 25%.
So if we look at major service increases, there would be a possible disparity, if it's over that, 25%. So
doing the math, that's 27.5%. So if it's a service reduction, they would be receiving more of the potential
burden.
And on the flip side, if it's a major service increase, there's the potential disparity, if it's below that 22.5%
or, basically, 22.5%. So 10% of that 25% is 2.5. So we just add to that 25% for service reductions, or we
subtract from that 25% for service increases.
So now, I'll go over the methodology, the way in which we conduct analysis. And by virtue of the 2022
Title VI program update, we have increased our sensitivity as far as how we conduct our analysis and
formalize it with Board approval. So the methodology used was both at the route level analysis.
So looking at each line independently that met the Major Service Change threshold, and then looking at it
from a network perspective, which gives us a better understanding of the nature of impacts, in totality of
the service proposal that's being provided for each Runboard. So to give you the results of the route level,
we found with the one route, the Route 30, there are no potential disparate impact or disproportionate
burden. So if we do a refresher of the overview, if there's no potential disparate impact or disproportionate
burden, then no action is required.
However, when we look at the two lines, the C and the F, there are no disparate impacts for minority
populations, but there is a potential disproportionate burden. But there are mitigations in place which I'll
discuss a little bit further in the presentation.
So now, I want to get to the meat of the presentation, which is the network level results and the
conclusion. We can see here, based off of the equity analysis that was in the Board report, and even in

the recommended action, the equity groups represented a higher population share than the district
average. So when you look at the-- total the minority population given the nature of changes, we can see
that equity populations are receiving more of the benefits.
And as we can see, as I mentioned earlier, minority groups are not disproportionately impacted by the
CNF lines. But as just to take a deeper dive on the potential disproportionate burden for low income
populations, because it does exceed the threshold relative to higher income populations. But as stated
previously, all stations served by the CNF lines will continue to be served by existing rail service at 15
minute peak headways.
So that's the mitigation. So there's-- bottom line, there's minimal concern from the Title VI perspective.
And the biggest takeaway that I want the Board to walk away with when we look at the changes in totality
based off the analysis is, both minority and low income equity populations receive greater service
increase.
There are positively impacted compared to non equity populations. And if we're doing the math, it's a
positive 1.84% more for minority groups, and plus, or positive, 1.67% more for low income groups.
So the last slide here before I open up for any questions, the recommendation here is for the Board to
consider approving the January 2023 Title VI Service Equity Analysis.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Green, appreciate that.
So at this time, I'd like to ask Directors who have questions, or wish to speak, to raise your virtual hands.
I'll call on you in turn. For Directors for staff calling into the meeting, if you wish to speak, please press
Star 9.
All right. Hold on, let me minimize that. Let's see, does anybody have any hand raised? Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. My question was just kind of regarding the 120L
discontinuation for weekends. I'm just curious what the ridership numbers are for that, if we have that?
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I might?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Absolutely, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, thank you. We will make sure to get you the actual ridership numbers. But if you're
looking for actual boardings and lightings in the segment, that's discontinued. That number is going to be
very, very low, given that the primary generator that was trying to be served on that segment is closed
during the time. You're going to see, I'm going to guess, either a single digit, or zero. But I will confirm that
through a ride check analysis sent to the Board Office.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, very much.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Mr. Carter, was that the facility in Adams County that had an issue where the-- we
had to scramble and work with local officials to get a bus service to that facility?
JESSIE CARTER: That is correct.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK.

JESSIE CARTER: It was that-PAUL ROSENTHAL: So, juries-- oh, go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: No. I was just going to say I wouldn't consider it scrambling.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: My apologies for that characterization.
JESSIE CARTER: No, actually-PAUL ROSENTHAL: I was looking for the right word. How about to say there was quite a bit of activity
involved.
JESSIE CARTER: Quite a bit of effort to try to make sure that [INAUDIBLE].
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Ah, yes.
JESSIE CARTER: --there was to it, absolutely. But again, the reason why we're discontinuing this
segment is, on the weekends, the facility is just not open. And, therefore, we can straighten out the route,
provide more respite time for our operators going up to US 85 and Bridge Street. So we think this is a
change that doesn't harm anyone, or take away actual service from anyone. But at the same time,
actually, treats our operators the best way we can.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: No problem.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Madam, General Manager, CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to speak. I just wanted to
share that through our Government Relations Officer, we have been coordinating with Adams County
because we apprise them of this, unlike previous instances, when there, perhaps, wasn't adequate
communication. So I just wanted to ensure that everybody was cognizant of that fact. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you for that clarification. That was actually going to be my question. So
you're clairvoyant, Madam General Manager, CEO.
All righty. Any other questions, concerns, et cetera? All right. Any no votes?
All righty. So we do have four Aye votes. And, therefore, it passes.
All right. The next item is the January 2023 Service Change for the Board of Directors to approve the
January 2023 Service Change package, as revised and summarized in Attachment A, and to authorize
the General Manager, CEO, or her designee, to execute contract amendments, as necessary, for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes. Do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: I move the adoption.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Any second? I will second then, if nobody wants to.

All right. So it's Director Tisdale motion and myself second. Let me go back to the script here and make
sure I'm following that.
I'd like to ask Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer, and Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service
Development to present this item. Go on ahead.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. Thank you. It's Michael Ford, COO.
And I'd just like to give you an update on the proposed service change. Not to be too redundant with the
Board adoption of the Reimagine RTD System Optimization Plan, known as the SOP, in July 2022,
several of the proposals herein initiate the first phase of implementation of the SOP. The January 2023
proposed sales related to the SOP were selected, modified, and based on RTD's current capacity to
provide service.
Workforce availability challenges persist, tying the sequencing of the SOP-related routes, proposals,
more directly to specific operating divisions capability for additional work assignments. It should be noted
that efforts to increase operator availability through intensified recruitment and increased employee
outreach continue by way of discussion following the guidelines contained in the strategic plan, relating
most directly to community values and customer excellence, and recognizing the RTD's workforce
challenges, the proposals herein are directed at improving on-time performance, maintaining collective
bargaining agreement compliance, and implementing the first phase of the SOP.
As you know, the Board adopted guidance for proposed service changes continues to focus on service
performance evaluations based on RTD service standards, the effects of the overall integrity of the transit
network, and on transit dependent markets, the availability of alternative services to affected riders, cost
effective distribution through the districts of, and family of services, and the ability to enhance service.
When possible, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act benefits and services are provided without regard to race,
color, or national origin.
Also, disparate effects on the income of-- income and minority populations, and the response to changes
in communities where services are provided. There's a list of information that are-- is summarized in your
packet in Attachment A. Reference materials and the SLP proposals are also included in Attachment B,
C, D, E, and F.
And there were some public meetings that took place that was communicated at the last discussion on
September 26 at noon, and at September 27 at noon at 6:00 PM. These meetings have been recorded
and are available for review. Comments from the public comment period have been summarized and are
listed in your Attachment B.
And the initial recommendation staff received input during the public comment process, and continues to
conduct additional analysis after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of
Directors. Depending on the outcome of the public comment process, and continue analysis staff, may or
may not propose modifications to the initial recommendations. So the following proposals have been
added, or significantly modified, as you note in your packet, Route 10 will be delayed until May, 2023, the
expansion of that.
And then the other service changes are really focused on the 2023 SOP-related service adjustments on
the proposed service reductions and efficiencies, proposed mixed service improvements and service
efficiencies, as well, proposed routine service adjustments to focus on schedules, adjustments schedule

analysis. And finally, the financial impacts are to be deemed cost neutral. So at this time, that concludes
my brief report. And I would ask Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development, to join me and
we will entertain any questions that you may have.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, sir. Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Oh, actually, I have no further comment to what Michael Ford had presented. But I'm
open to any questions with regard to the proposals.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, sir. Are there any Directors who have any input, or questions, or
concerns, or what have you, about this item? I-- oh, there is a hand. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I did just want to take a moment to thank staff for making a
special point of highlighting to us in these changes that are all set forth in the report. The percentage of
time that these runs are late, these routes are late, and it's helpful to say, OK, we understand that, we
recognize that, we acknowledge it, and we're trying to fix it. We hope that these service adjustments will
reduce that lateness and increase the on-time performance.
Because particularly, as to some-- and I note that there were four people who submitted comments on
Rogue 24, which goes up and down University not far from my house, and said, can we please put that to
30 minute headways? And I know that's a dream in the distance because of workforce issues, et cetera.
But at least, if we can make the ones that are running more on time, that would be greatly appreciated.
So thank you to staff for, A, doing it, and B, giving us the information so that we could see it.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you for your comment.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Any other comments? All righty. Given-- any no votes?
OK. In that case, the measure passes unanimously with four Aye votes.
All righty, let's move on to the next item-- discussion items. Are there any discussion items this evening?
Nope, no discussion items. Any other matters?
KATE WILLIAMS: Me, me.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sorry, I had to toggle to go to the screen from my script. Let's start. I don't know who
raised their hand first, but let's go to Director Williams. Go on ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom, I know you were first. Do you want to wait? Do you want to go?
BOB BROOM: Oh, I'll wait.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'll go. I have some information item that I'd like to note.
I don't know about the rest of the Directors, but I regularly am contacted by constituents who have issues
with infrastructure around RTD's bus stops, train stations, whatever. They want the garbage can emptied,
or they want the bench repainted, or they want the shelter moved or not moved. And I would like us all to
know that the majority of those issues do not belong to RTD. They belong to the City, County.

And if it's not them, then it's usually a private vendor. But most of the shelters and the buses are clearly
marked. So I'm going to ask that we all be aware to ask the person who is requesting RTD's assistance
for a photo of the situation.
And if they take some time to look at the facilities, they will see that almost all the time, it says, this is
owned by outdoor advertising, or for help with this bench, call Adams County. And I'd like to see us all be
aware of that. So that is the first item that I have.
And, Chair, I have another one. Can I go on? OK. I'm sorry.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, absolutely. Sorry, I was on mute. Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all right. Sorry, Director Broom. The other one I'd like to note is that we had
some discussion about signs at the elevators at RTD facilities where you need an elevator to access
what's going on there, and that has been resolved due to RTD staff. And I'd like to thank them all for their
work on that. And that is all other matters that I have this evening.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. We're all aware that we're operating a system with a lot of vacant
operator positions, which have resulted in skip trips and so forth. My concern is is, are we also skimping
on training? In other words, we don't have enough time to set aside for operators for safety training. And
we've had three very serious accidents in recent weeks.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Would anybody like to comment on that or-MICHAEL FORD: Sure.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, if I may-MICHAEL FORD: OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Let's go with our General Manager CEO, Miss Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. And I will yield the floor to Mr. Ford. And thank you very much
for that comment, Director Broom. I have been meeting with the team and we have talked about this.
When it comes to safety, I take the position, and the team is in alignment with this, that we would sacrifice
on bringing new employees in because we need to train the ones that we've already invested in. So I just
want to be clear as we talk about what we're doing collectively that training and safety are paramount to
our overarching operation.
So with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Ford, our Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Ford?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. No, I would just add that we are not skimping on any training. We continue
to be rigorous in that. And also, looking at patterns or issues that we're having, to correct or enhance
additional training where needed.

So I just would want to emphasize that we are continuing to do our training, to modify, enhance where
needed, even methodologies of training, as well. So I can assure you that our training is something that
we take very seriously, as CEO Johnson mentioned, and we're continuing to look at opportunities for
improvement. But we are continuing our rigorous training efforts at RTD.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. That's good to hear.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Ford and General Manager CEO. Thank you, Director Broom. Any
other up? We have Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to take a moment during the Operations
meeting to thank General Manager CEO Johnson for the report regarding the restrooms in the Denver
Union Station bus concourse that will open again on Monday, October 17, having been closed for
something close to 11 months. So it's wonderful that our various supply chain issues have been
addressed, and that we have a specific plan so that we can provide a safe, clean, and secure rest facility
for our passengers who use the bus concourse.
So I thought we should make a moment-- take a moment to emphasize that during this meeting. I really
do appreciate it. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, Director Tisdale. Madam General Manager CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Director Tisdale. I want to
thank the team.
I want to be clear that this has been a collective effort amongst a myriad of people. So it took a long time
coming in relationship to supply chain, and a myriad of different issues, and coordinating. So the
members of the team that are leading the Police Department Chief Martingano, had an integral part in this
as we look at our third party to provide staffing support. Mr. Stopplecamp and his team and, of course,
operations collectively.
John-- OK, I'm going to leave somebody out. It's taken a village. And I don't want to leave out anybody's
name because it's been a cross-pollination, and thank you for acknowledging that. We wanted to do this
sooner, as you all know, and finally, it looks as if everything is aligned. So thank you for your patience.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And that is really a subject that is well brought up, Director Tisdale. And thank you,
General Manager and CEO Johnson for recognizing that. And that actually dovetails into what I wanted to
bring up.
I have to recognize Director Rivera-Malpiede for organizing a tour for myself. And others were invited, too,
but I was the one who showed up. And so I got to see the Union Station bus concourse, and sort of the
behind the scenes, as well, so what is all the logistics, the ventilation system, the pumping systems, the
backup systems, the fire suppression systems.
And we also got to see the bathroom as it was being redesigned. And also-- but also the staffing that
would be going with that, the process of making sure that it would be-- how often it would be cleaned, and
made sure that it would be safe for all, and the bus concourse, et cetera.
So I just wanted to also show that I do recognize Director Rivera-Malpiede and, of course, everyone that
General Manager and CEO had also mentioned. This-- it was amazing just how everybody is really

working together to make it a better and safer, more enjoyable trip and ride for everybody using RTD, and
using the bus concourse. So kudos to everyone.
I know there's still some more work to do in regards to the ticketing process and things like that, but that,
at least, is a huge step forward and I have to thank you all. Anybody else have anything? Director
Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, well, thank you, Director Rosenthal. I would be remiss if I didn't just
acknowledge that every time we've asked for a presentation, Henry Stopplecamp is the first one there
and does an amazing job, along with our Deputy Chief Steve Martingano and Brandon Figliolino from our
Division of Communications. He's just been really phenomenal.
But the other thing I'd like to do is thank the General Manager for her leadership with her team because
you now-- Union Station is such a different place than it was just six months ago. It is quiet, it is clean, it
feels safe. And I think our patrons really, really appreciate all the work that's gone into the facility.
And so I just wanted to really thank all of you for your leadership under Debra Johnson because, Debra,
you've done one hell of a job. Not just with the RTD family, but bringing together all the key partners in the
region to be part of the process. And so you're right, it takes a village, but it takes a leader of the village to
call the people.
And I just wanted to say thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you, Director, and my apologies. I didn't mention those three gentlemen
who accompanied us and who are always providing support for our tours. So thank you very much, Mr.
Figliolino, Martingano, and Stopplecamp.
So let's see, anything else? Director Malpiede, your hand is raised. OK. That's it.
Well, I think that's it at this time. Let me just look at the script, make sure there's nothing else to be said.
All righty. It looks like just the next meeting of the Operations and Safety Committee will be Wednesday,
November 2, 2022.
Seeing no other discussion, the meeting is adjourned at 6:26 PM. Thank you so much, everybody, and
have a great evening. Bye-bye now.

