RTD FAA Committee 10-20-20
SHELLEY COOK: Hi, everyone. I'm Shelley Cook. The Finance Administration and Audit
Committee will now come to order. We're convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
And I would respectfully ask everybody connected to this call to mute your phone and to set
your ringers on silent.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. To see
that, you go to www.rtd-denver.com and then scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the
Board of Directors' cards.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please just announce your name and wait for me
to call before proceeding to speak. And note also, of course, that at the appropriate time during
our discussion and voting processes later on in the evening, I'll call on each Director in turn. So
please know that whether you volunteer or not, your time to speak will come. And if possible,
please hold your comments until that time.
Oh, this is the first meeting tonight. So I'll go to our safety notices. At RTD, safety is our core
value. I'd like to begin by providing a short safety briefing. So with the uptick in COVID-19
cases nationwide, it's more important than ever that we follow all of these practices since we're
doing so for our safety as well as the safety of others. So frequently and thoroughly wash your
hands. Monitor health and the health of those close to you.
Be particularly alert to the three most prevalent symptoms of COVID-19-- fever, coughing, and
shortness of breath. Minimize time spent in poorly ventilated indoor public areas, especially
when a large number of people are present. And especially wear a mask at all times in public
spaces, including RTD facilities and vehicles whether indoors or outdoors When you're unable to
maintain physical distancing of at least six feet. Thank you.
So going to our agenda tonight, we have three recommended actions, and I'll read the first one.
It's the adoption of the pension plan contribution. It's that the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee recommend that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2021 contribution of $6.1
million to RTD Salaried Employees' Defined Benefit Pension Trust, also known as the DB Plan,
which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement.
MELANIE SNYDER: Excuse me, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, did I-MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, I apologize for interrupting. This is Melanie Snyder,
General Counsel. Should we take roll?

SHELLEY COOK: We ordinarily don't with committees. We do normally with the Board
meetings, but I can easily defer to you on that.
MELANIE SNYDER: I think that's a good idea. Let's do that for the record.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Ms. McManus, do you mind calling roll? You want me to call the roll? Why
don't I do that? OK, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow. Bell
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Here.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm here.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm here as well, Shelley Cook. OK. All right, so returning to our item,
back to the agenda, the adoption of the pension plan contribution. And the recommended action,
again, is for the Finance Administration and Audit Committee to recommend that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt a 2021 contribution of $6.1 million to RTD Salaried Employees'
Defined Benefit Pension Trust, the DB Plan, which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement.
It's also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2021 contribution of 7% of each
participant's eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees' Defined Contribution Plan-- that
one's the DC Plan-- which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of
employment. The recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-mission-oriented goal number three for strong financial management and strategic priority
number six, move RTD toward a stable financial situation.
And so I believe we have Heather McKillop, Wendy Londa, and Steve Weinstein here to present.
If you would all just introduce yourself and state your title as well. Go ahead, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I need motion. Forgive me. I always-BOB BROOM: Move approval.
SHELLEY COOK: Do I have a motion to approve?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.

VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, moved.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so I'll say Director Broom as primary and Director Buzek as seconder.
OK, go ahead, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you. This is Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer. You've
stated the motion. So I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Wendy Londa. She's the actuarial
for the plan, for the pension plan. Each year at this time, she does a presentation as to the
recommended contribution by the actuarial. And then we make a recommendation, as is stated in
this, as to what we believe we can afford to contribute towards that recommended contribution.
So she'll be doing a quick overview of that.
And then I also invited this evening Steve Weinstein, who is the attorney for the trust, the
pension trust, because we know that there'll be some Board members with a few questions that
legal will need to answer. So with that, I will turn it over to Wendy.
WENDY LONDA: OK, thank you, Heather. Can everybody hear me OK? Hope so.
NATALIE MENTEN: Sure.
SHELLEY COOK: Good and clear.
WENDY LONDA: OK, great. OK, so as Heather said, I'm the Actuary for the salary pension
plan. So we recently presented results to the Salary Plan Board of Trustees in August. So this
information is fresh off the press, so to speak, versus prior years, we would meet in February or
March about six months after presenting the results. So this is all current information.
So I'm going to start on page one of the presentation. I'm assuming you all have a copy of that.
So page one-SHELLEY COOK: Yes, we do.
WENDY LONDA: OK, great. Page one shows evaluation highlights of our 2019 and 2020
evaluations, just some of the key highlights here. Just want to go over these with you. So the
participant count decreased, total participant count decreased by 14, and the active participant
counts decreased by 25. We would expect decreases since the plan was closed to new
participants in 2008. We'd also expect decreases in the total participant count as participants
terminate, retire, elect a lump sum benefit and pass away. So this is all as expected.
The actuarial accrued liability is the value of benefits earned and promised as of each valuation
date, the snapshot date. The liabilities increased by $5 million as participants continued to earn
increases in their salary and projected benefits. The actuarial value of assets is a smoothed value
of assets. So we recognize each year's investment gain or loss compared to our 7% assumption.
So it's only recognized-- it's recognized 20% per year over a five-year period.

So the smoothed value of assets increased by just under a million. Because the liabilities
increased by more than the actuarial value of assets, our unfunded liability or the value of benefit
without assets ready to pay for them is increased by $4.1 million to $43.3 million. This is
essentially the planned debt, the planned mortgage, so to speak, that is being paid off each year.
A portion of it is.
The funded ratio is the ratio of the plan's assets to its liabilities. So on the smoothed value of
assets, the ratio decreased from 78% to 76.4% because our return on the actuarial value of assets
was 6.4% versus our assumption of 7%. There was a slight loss on that. And also, we're still
recognizing the 2008 investment losses. So in 2008-- sorry, not 2008, 2018. In 2018, there was
investment of loss of $16.6 million.
And in 2019, there is an investment gain of $11.3 million. So the gains in 2019 are helping to
offset some of the losses in 2018. But anyway, we're still recognizing those over the next few
years. However, in the market value of assets, the funded percentage increased from 72.8% to
77.9% because the return on the market value was 16.5% in 2019 versus our 7% assumption. So
a really nice return in 2018.
The recommended contributions, that's the sum of the normal cost, which is the cost of benefits
earned during the year plus the amortization of the unfunded liability or the plan's debt. So the
recommended contribution increased from $8.1 million to $8.6 million. So this is for the
following plan year. So the January 1, 2019 recommended contribution of $8.1 million is
expected-- is for the 2020 plan year. And then 2020, $6.1 million of contributions is being paid,
so $2 million less than the recommended contribution for that year.
And the reason the recommended contribution went up is due to two things. First, the unfunded
liability went up, and also the period over which the payment is made decreased. So we've got a
declining amortization period. It was 12 years as of 1/1/19, so 11 years as of 1/1/20. So you've
got a bigger debt paid over a shorter period of time. So that's why the recommended contribution
went up.
In actual contributions, this is what was paid in the prior year, so not really lining up exactly with
the recommended contribution for that year. $5.1 million was paid in 2018 and also in 2019.
Let's flip to the next page, page two. Talk about the plan's funding. So the funding policy hasn't
changed since 2016. It's an amount that's to keep the trust actuarially sound based on
recommendations of both the Actuary and the Chief Financial Officer.
So just to give you a reference point, I wanted to start with where we were last year, which was
in March is when we presented these results. So in March, our results were based on the January
1, 2019 valuation result. And at that point, because we presented the results in March, we knew
what the return for 2019 was. It was estimated to be 16.5%, and the contribution of $6.1 million
was known.
So based on 2019 results, 16.5% return in 2019 and a $6.1 million contribution. The plan was
projected to reach 100% funding in 2034 if all the assumptions were met. And just for
comparison purposes, if the recommended contribution were contributed starting in 2021, it

would have been 100% funded three years earlier at 2031 at the end of the 11-year amortization
period. So that's the starting point. We just wanted to show you what's happened since that point.
So what happened? So the question is, what happened since then? So the actual investment
return was 16.5%, same as what the preliminary number was based on the final audit. And the
plan experienced an asset loss of $0.8 million. As I mentioned, the return on the smoothed value
of assets was 6.4% versus our assumption of 7%. So there was a slight loss in the assets. And
there was also a liability loss of $2.3 million during 2019.
Now let's look at our projections reflecting those results. So on the next page, three, now
reflecting the January 2020 valuation results and a $6.1 million contribution each year. If all
assumptions are met, the plan is projected to reach 100% funding in 2035, so one year later due
to the experienced losses in 2019.
Now there's also been a little bit of update in the market. As you know, the market has been
pretty volatile this year. When we presented results to the Salary Plan Board in August, at that
time, preliminary results, investment returns were through July, and it was negative 4.3%. But
since then, the returns have been a little bit better. So now we have results from investment
returns through September of negative 3%, so still well below our 7% assumption, but certainly
better than they were through July. So we'll show you some projections based on the results
through September.
Flipping to the next page, four. So now, again, we've got 2020 valuation results and a $6.1
million contribution. So what happens to our expectations now that we reflect a negative 3%
return for 2020? So if $6.1 million contributions are made each year, 100% funding is now
projected to reach it in 2043, so eight years later due to a negative 3% return versus our 7%
assumptions. You can see it's got a significant impact on the plan.
And one of the reasons for this is because of the plan's maturity level. So we've got-- the plan
has-- well, in 2019, we had $5.1 million in contributions coming into the plan. But benefit
payments were $12.7 million. So you've got a difference of $7.6, $7.7 million that needs to come
from investment income to cover those benefit payments. So you can see if the plan doesn't hit
that, then that really digs into the plan's asset values. So just as a comparison, if the
recommended contribution were made beginning in 2021, the plan would achieve 100% funding
in 2031. Again, that's the end of the 11-year amortization period.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me, Wendy. This is Director Folska. I would like to just ask
everybody to mute their phone. What you're talking about is really dense information, and I want
to follow it. But there's a lot of background noise that's very distracting. So I would personally
appreciate it if everyone would please mute their phone. Thank you.
WENDY LONDA: Is there anything you need me to repeat that you didn't catch? Did you need
me to repeat anything?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, no, thank you. Wendy, thank you. No, I'm fine. It's just I'm not going
to be able to maintain it. That's all. Thank you so much.

WENDY LONDA: Sure. No problem.
WENDY LONDA: On page five is the graphic representation of what I just said, so the words,
and now we've got pictures. Sometimes one is easier to follow than the other. So here, again,
we've got-- so we've got two graphs. The top graph is the funded percentage. Again, that's the
ratio of your smoothed value of assets to your liabilities. The goal is to hit 100% funding or
higher.
The green bars are if the recommended contribution is made each year starting in 2021. The blue
bars are if $6.1 million of contributions are made each year. So you can see in the top graph that
the green bars hit 100% funding in 2031, which is the end of the 11-year amortization period.
But the blue bars don't-- well, it doesn't show on a graph because we can't go out that far.
But the blue bars don't hit 100% funding until 2043, so 12 years later than if the recommended
contribution were made. So obviously, if we're contributing less than the recommend amount
each year, it's just pushing that down the road, adding to the unfunded liability, which is now
being paid over a shorter period of time. So it's kind of a compounding effect there.
And the bottom graph is the recommended contribution amount. Again, that's the sum of the cost
of benefits earned in the year plus the amortization of the unfunded liability paid out over the
specified number of years. You can see the green bars, and 2032 falls way down. Again, we're
expected to pay it all off by 2031 at the end of the amortization period, and then thereafter,
there's just the cost of benefits earned during the year, the green bars.
The blue bars you can see go spiking way up, again, because less than the recommended amount
is contributed each year, so it adds to the unfunded liability. And, again, that's paid over a shorter
period of time, so the recommended contribution spikes up. So obviously, I understand there's
budgeting concerns, especially this year due to COVID. But I just wanted to show you the
difference if the recommended contribution is made versus a $6.1 million contribution.
If there's no questions on that, the last thing I was going to point out on page six. We're still
going to obviously-- each year, we'll look at the planned funding level, the recommended
contribution amount, and monitor the assumptions and methods to see if any changes need to be
made. We're also looking at what other public pension plans are doing. And I know there was a
question in March about this.
So some of the public plans are still at 7 and 1/4% or higher, and they're targeting a 7%. So
they're all looking to get down lower to 7%. And also due to COVID and what's going on now,
some are strategizing with more diversification in their investments, whether it's infrastructure,
direct lending, et cetera, due to what they think will be a different return environment in the next
three to five years.
So that's what we know is going on with some of the other public pension plans. That's all I have.
The last page, seven, is just our certification. Happy to answer any questions you may have.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Yeah, go ahead, Heather.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, that's OK. I was just going to turn it back to you to ask for any
questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Mr. Weinstein doesn't have a presentation per se but is available for
questions of a legal nature, correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All righty. Well, with that, let's go round one time for questions.
Director Broom, do to have any questions for any of the presenters or Mr. Weinstein?
BOB BROOM: No. I serve on this Pension Board so I've seen the numbers before Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And thanks for the comprehensive report. I have no
questions or comments.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions or comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Nothing for me. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. We've talked in the past. I know a number of
Directors have asked about long-term cost savings and seeing reductions in the percentages
presented here, and that is presented from the 9% to the 7%, as well as employee actual
contribution for some employees. And I wonder-- I'm curious as to how that might change if
employees were to contribute to their pension plans and this wasn't all funded.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I think that pertains to the defined contribution part, but I'll let the
staff clarify that. Go ahead, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, yes, Wendy is discussing the pension portion of it. And I think,
Director Lewis, you're discussing the Defined Contribution Plan. So we can take questions for
that, too. So I think that's not an actuarial question because there is no actuarial performed for the
Defined Contribution Plan. So that would be more of a legal question as to what would need to

be modified and how that could be done and if it can be done. So I think that would be a Steve
question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, that works for me. And I'm asking because the numbers that are
presented are all the way out into 2038. And so if we were to make a change, I'm just curious as
how we might be able to actually do that because we've had this conversation at least the two
years that I've been on the Board.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather. Let me clarify. So on the Defined
Benefit Plan, which is the pension plan, we cannot make changes to that plan document because
that plan is closed. So that's the lump sum contribution we're recommending of 6.1. The way that
we can bring that in closer is to get closer to what the recommended contribution is that Wendy
just may, the $8.6 million.
We have been steadily increasing that contribution from, when I started, $3.1 million, which was
woefully underfunded. And I've been increasing it between $500,000 to a million and coming
back to the Board to ask for that approval, which the Board has done up to this point. But in
order to bring that time frame back down again, we would need to make a contribution much
closer to what the actuarial is. We had planned to ask for another $500,000 to a million this year.
But due to everything going on with the budget, that was just not practical. So we did not make
that recommendation.
SHELLEY COOK: If you'd like, Director Lewis, we could ask Steve Weinstein to address the
changes needed in the Defined Contribution Plan in order to change the span of potential
contributions. Do you want to go ahead and do that, or are you OK?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, please. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Mr. Weinstein.
STEVE WEINSTEIN: Can you hear me now?
SHELLEY COOK: We can.
STEVE WEINSTEIN: OK. [LAUGHS] Yeah, I don't know if I'm on mute or not. So anyway,
with respect to the Defined Contribution Plan and putting in a contribution at the employee level
on a go forward basis with respect to any new employees, that would be no problem whatsoever.
With respect to the existing employees, there is a body of law out there, most of which applies to
Defined Benefit Plans, that talks in terms of a contractual arrangement between the participant
and the plan.
And it's very difficult to get changes. It's not impossible. There's a whole list of criteria. With
respect to a DC plan, I think that it's an easier task because if you're asking the employee to put
in money, it's basically going into their accounts, and they are directing the investment. So there
may not be a lot of pushback legally. From a practical standpoint, there may be because there
may be a little bit less in their paycheck.

With respect to reducing the employer contribution and trying to make it up with the employee,
there is a risk that there will be pushback in terms of a legal challenge that, wait a minute, there
was a contract, and the contract started out with the employer making all the contributions with
the employee not making any. And that would be where-- if there was going to be a dispute,
that's where it would be. I think because it's a DC plan, that it's an easier win for RTD than it
would be on a DP plan with any employer.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. Thank you so much. I appreciate that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Anything else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Mr. Weinstein. OK, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. No comments from me, but I wanted to say hello to Wendy and Steve. It's
good to hear your voices again.
STEVE WEINSTEIN: Yes, hi.
WENDY LONDA: You too, Judy. [LAUGHS]
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I'll start my questions first with actuarial report, and I'll
reference the pages here that I'm going to be asking about. And I'll use the packet page unless
Wendy-- and I apologize. I didn't get your last name confidently.
WENDY LONDA: Londa.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I hope you don't mind me calling you Wendy.
WENDY LONDA: No, not at all.
NATALIE MENTEN: All righty. So take packet page seven or page one of the document itself.
On this chart, I just to make sure I'm not misreading this or getting confused. the last line shows
actual contribution prior year of the $5.1 million.
WENDY LONDA: Mm-hmm.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is that 5.1 or 6.1?

WENDY LONDA: So this is what was-- so the 5.1-- as of January 1, 2019, the $5.1 million was
paid in 2018. The $5.1 million as of January 1, 2020 was paid in 2019. The plan is currently
paying $6.1 million in 2020, which actually correlates to the $8.1 million recommended
contribution as 1/1/19. So it's one year later, the recommended contribution. Does that help?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, where the January 1-- it clicked with me. Fine, good. All right.
Then I'm going to go down to your document is page four, and it's our packet page 10.
WENDY LONDA: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: And in the second-- well, it might be a few bullets here. So the line starts
out by saying-- it's the third paragraph. Let's go that way. The recommended contribution ranges
from $8.6 million in 2021 up to $49.2 million in 2031 and decreases this down to $3.3 million in
2043. That's an outright for $49.2 million within one year for 2031.
WENDY LONDA: That's because at that point-- right, and that's because there's one year left in
the amortization period. So the whole unfunded liability and the cost of benefits, that's the
recommend contribution. That's the last year of the amortization period. So whatever's left is to
be paid in that year because of less-- yes, I know. It's not a typo, unfortunately. [LAUGHS]
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And I don't know that-- I was kind of going through pension
documents while you were going through the presentation. And I wasn't sure if that figure was
actually mentioned, so kind of bringing it up just for our record to show that. That is really the
questions that I had on this part. But I do have a couple of legal questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Mr. Weinstein.
STEVE WEINSTEIN: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So yes, I've been very interested in the discussion about what
can be done with the current DC plan. And the two pieces to it are, one, reduce the taxpayer, or
also known as employer, contribution below the 7%. And then part two is to either allow or
require an employee contribution. And so Director Lewis did get some of that answered.
And I want to just-- going to unfortunately read back from just a piece of this discussion in 2008
that is still on our website. And I kind of put together the notes where you were actually present
at this meeting when they were determining how the DC plan should read. And I know you don't
have this in front of you. So I apologize. Hopefully our minutes were fairly accurate from this
2008 document.
But the discussion at that time was very similar to what I'm focused on here. And that is they
ended up with something that said 7% to 9%. But there were comments in these minutes about
making sure that the Board of Directors in the future had plenty of flexibility to address if a
budget challenge came up. And Marlene, which I'm sure you remember, was our RTD Legal
Counsel at the time. So she is also quoted quite a bit in the minutes.

And one of the things that was brought up is-- and I'm just going to read a very short paragraph
here. Director Buzek asked if the plan was being funded at 9% for many years and then changed
to a 5% rate, if it could be challenged in court. Ms. Lein responded that she felt it could be a
challenge that the plan disclosure would cover this.
And so as I reviewed those minutes, my note to myself was, is that disclosure present? What
disclosure is there now? Is this a locked contract into it? Does it have an opening? Does the plan
have to be rewritten? Does it need to just be edited? What actually needs to take place? And what
disclosure is there now?
SHELLEY COOK: So I just want to couch this in saying I don't-- you haven't had a chance to
read these minutes probably, Mr. Weinstein. I don't want to-- if you'd like to take some time to
go through that and/or respond at a later time, that's perfectly fine with me.
STEVE WEINSTEIN: Well, I obviously would. But I was just going to-- let me just-- there in
the actual plan itself, if I can get there-- basically says that-- let's see. The employer shall
contribute-- and there's some language-- an amount determined in the sole and absolute
discretion of the employer, which shall not be less than 7% or greater than 9% of each
participant's compensation for the year. The employer shall make the payment, talks about the
pay period, et cetera.
There doesn't not appear to be any flexibility in that. However, the plan does provide that the
employer may amend the plan. And let me just see here, if I can find that quickly. It basically
says that the employer may at any time and from time to time amend this plan or terminate the
plan, and the trust-- da da, da da. And additional amendments may be made at any time which
diverts the trust fund for other purposes.
So I think that the concept of-- it was a fixed amount, 7% to 9%, and that was discussed quite at
length as I recall, that, added with the ability to amend. I think at that particular time, it was felt
that the employer, the RTD, could do that. I'm only suggesting that if on a go forward basis with
respect to new employees, there would not be any issues at all.
With respect to those existing participating employees, there is an argument that there was a
contractual relationship and that they should not be compelled at this point to make
contributions. I think that that argument is much weaker in a DC plan than a DP plan. But it's an
argument out there that I think one could expect.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Natalie Menten your question.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So what I think I heard there is if we did want to amend the plan
down to, let's say, 6%, that can be done because it said within the language we could do that.
Where perhaps there might be more of a complication would be a required employee
contribution.
STEVE WEINSTEIN: Yes.

NATALIE MENTEN: And could there be a voluntary-- I think you kind of covered that maybe
in answer to Director Lewis. But let me just make sure. Would we have the option to say, let's
say, we're going to amend the plan and say we're going to drop the taxpayer, also known as
employer, RTD contribution down to 6%, and we want to add in a option for employee to
voluntarily contribute? Would we be able to do that?
STEVE WEINSTEIN: Yes. I mean, now remember, a voluntary contribution is post-tax. It's
going to be with after tax dollars. So it's not a very attractive option for most employees. There is
the mandatory contribution by an employee that can be converted, which would be a post-tax
situation that can be converted to a pre-tax with some acceptable language that we obviously
would put it. So there's the voluntary, and there is the involuntary that can be done. But the
involuntary, I think, could create a possible objection in litigation.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: --457. Yeah, go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. I was just going to mention that, that there is currently a
voluntary plan for salaried employees, the 457 plan. And that is pre-tax. So that would take care
of-- so right now, employees do have that option to do it voluntarily through the 457 plan that we
currently have. And that's where most people do make their contributions because they get the
benefits of directing their money there as well as the contributions being pre-tax.
And I just did want to mention, too, that I just want to clarify there is a difference between
changing these things for people going forward, which is much less risky, and people that are
already in the plan. So I just want to make sure that that was clarified also. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and, Director Menten, I'm kind of getting worried about our time and
noting that much of the actuarial report was on the Defined Benefit Plan, which wouldn't be
helped by this. I'm kind of with you on some of your points, but I wonder if we can move on at
this point. Would you be OK with that? I just want to move to the next person and make sure
everybody has a chance to ask a question and that we keep the meeting in a reasonable time
frame.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Mr. Weinstein-- I hope I said that right-- would it be all right if I had
a one-on-one conversation with you?
STEVE WEINSTEIN: Oh, absolutely. Let me give you-- you mean tonight or tomorrow?
NATALIE MENTEN: I will not make you work too much later tonight. So tomorrow would be
fine.
STEVE WEINSTEIN: Yes. Please feel free to do so. Let me give you my phone number. 303-SHELLEY COOK: Wait, wait. Why don't you-- we can pass that along.

STEVE WEINSTEIN: OK. Thank you. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Some of the questions I had have already been addressed.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Sorry, Madam Chair. It took me a moment to get off of mute. Yes, just a
couple of questions, please. First of all, the net return on assets was negative 3% or, I'm sorry,
projected minus 3% for 2020, correct?
WENDY LONDA: It's minus 3% through September.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. I'm sorry. It's through September. That is what they have calculated.
And net return on assets is also similarly described as the investment return, looking at page nine
of our Board packet. Is that correct?
WENDY LONDA: Yes. Mm-hmm. The investment return is net of investment fees.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And the AVA that you show is almost 1%. So I take it that what we're
saying is the fund assets actually increased, but our experience factor, the claims that we
encountered and so forth, increased even more. Is that a correct statement?
WENDY LONDA: Are you referring to the actuarial value-- the funded percentage decreasing
by 1.6%? I'm sorry, I didn't follow the 1% you were talking about for the smoothed assets, the
actuarial value.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, the AVA is shown on page one of your report. Page seven of the packet
shows a $0.9 million, which is just under 1%. It's above 0.65% if you want to be picky. But it's
about 0.65% increase in the AVA. Is that correct?
WENDY LONDA: OK. I didn't follow what you were talking about. I see where-- the $0.9
million. Yes, that's the increase. Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, fine. So my question is this. We've got an actual net investment return in
2019 that we experienced of 16.5%. And we're showing that in terms of the cash value of those
assets that we have on hand. They grew by something under 1%, put in that neighborhood. And
then we're projecting forward a net investment return of 7%. Is that correct?
WENDY LONDA: Yes, The plan assumption is 7%. Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. My question is relative to the 0.65%, to be really precise about it,
investment return that we actually experience on the actuarial value of the assets, not taking into
account claims paid and so forth. That's a striking loss from the 16.5% we experienced in 2019
and from what I think most of us have actually experienced in our own portfolios this year. Is

there some reason for that? I'm just wondering the nature of the investments that these funds are
placed in.
WENDY LONDA: Well, I think the assets you're talking about, the $139.8 million actuarial-- it
says of 1/1/20. So we haven't given any projection of the smoothed value return for 2020 yet. So
in 2019-DOUG TISDALE: Ah, sorry. OK.
WENDY LONDA: Yeah, so in 2019, the return of the market value was 16.5%, and the return
on this smoothed value of assets was actually 6.4%, so just under the 7% on this-DOUG TISDALE: Right.
WENDY LONDA: We didn't give you an estimate of the return on the actuarial value for 2020.
We'll incorporate all that, but given, this is all preliminary. We just were reflecting a negative 3%
return on the market value without actually calculating it out and telling you what the return
would be on a actuarial value. It would be lower.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and I'm trying to figure that out because the negative 3% just doesn't
jive with a lot of things that I've experienced. So I'm trying to understand that. But I thank you
very much for the report. I know I will have other questions that I would like to present to you
folks later. But I'm not going to take up any additional time now, Madam Chair. I appreciate the
opportunity to ask these questions.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry. Who was that? Heather in there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, I was just going to say we have a trust meeting in a couple of
weeks where we will get the latest market information, and I would be glad to share that with the
Board when we receive it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. I believe that would be appreciated. Director
Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No, no, thank you. Thanks for the presentation.
WENDY LONDA: You bet.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you for the presentation. No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a brief-- Wendy, you referred to some
other pension plans that we are looking at for comparative sake. Are those local, or are those
national? Are those transit? Or are they just generically quasi-governmental, or question mark?
WENDY LONDA: Well, probably more in California. The ones in California more that we look
at-- I mean, we've got several plans in California that we do some artwork for and other work. So
we're kind of looking at those for the most part. So not necessarily national, but I think the
general trend for public plans is to lower the interest assumption. And this plan lowered it from 7
and 1/2% to 7% in January 2018. So other funds are doing the same thing, lowering it. Some of
them that are higher, they have to do it in a step to get down that low, but they're targeting 7%.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I just wonder if you could make an effort to look at some local
Colorado, Denver type situations that might be equally relevant to us. Thank you.
WENDY LONDA: Sure. Of course.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions or comments. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And for my part, I'm kind of concerned about the trajectory and whether
this 7% is reasonable, whether we have a policy. I'll be interested in talking about this with
regard to our fiscal policies, if we want to try and move along that curve faster than would be the
case if we maintain the 6.1. So anyway, thank you. No other comment on my part.
So with that, I'd like to go around and get a vote. And, again, this was a two-part motion that
approved the $6.1 million contribution for the Defined Benefit Plan and then also approved the
contribution rate for the Defined Contribution Plan to 7%. So Director Broom, you were the
mover. Can I have your vote?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: The seconder. OK. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska. Sorry.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: [LAUGHS] OK. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes because it's lowering it to 7%.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, Madam Chair. I am a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes. So with 15 votes in favor, no one opposed, that motion
passes. Thank you all very much. Appreciate you being here, the presentation, and answering the
questions as well. And then if you wouldn't mind, Mr. Weinstein, passing along your number to
Heather McKillop, who can forward it to the Board. Thank you for that offer.
STEVE WEINSTEIN: Yeah, she has it. That'll be great.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. All right.

STEVE WEINSTEIN: Thank you for the opportunity. Have a good night.
WENDY LONDA: Thank you. Bye-bye.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Wendy.
WENDY LONDA: Bye.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, the second item under recommended actions for us tonight is the
adoption of the 2021 Benefit Plan. And I'll read that recommended action. It's recommended by
the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approves the 2020
Salaried Benefits Plan and authorizes the General Manager, CEO, or his or her designee to enter
into agreements with the insurance carriers.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- mission-oriented
goal number three for strong financial management and strategic priority number six, move RTD
toward a stable financial situation. And with that, I'll turn it over to Heather McKillop and Racel
McMurray and would note Racel is our new HR Director, and this, I think, is the first time we've
seen her. So welcome.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And Madam Chair, did we get a motion and a-SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, it's my-- I blur through that. So do I have a motion and a second for
this?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and who was the second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Sure. I'll second.
SHELLEY COOK: Who is the second? Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, OK, got it. So with a motion by Chair Rivera-Malpiede and a second by
Kate Williams. Thank you all for doing that. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather. I don't think Racel's on
tonight. She's been working a lot of hours on getting ready for our reduction in force and other
issues. So I don't believe she's on tonight, but I will bring her at sometime in the near future and
introduce her to the Board. But we're really lucky to have her.
I just wanted to cover real quickly the adoption of the 2021 Benefit Plan. We bring this each year
to you. Our goal this year specifically was to try to keep the increased cost to the employer,

being RTD, as low as possible, if not zero. And we did get pretty close to being able to do that
even with a rather large increase coming forward for the Cigna plan.
I did go back and look at some historical numbers, and we've been quite fortunate over time.
Over the last nine years, Cigna has gone up in average of 8.6% with the largest increases just
occurring in 2020 and 2021. Kaiser over that period of time, 4%. Delta, which is dental, is less
than 1%. And actually, our vision plan has gone down over time, a cumulative 1.4%. So we've
been very fortunate in being able to keep those premiums quite low.
We are seeing an increase in the last couple years of Cigna. The main reason for that is we have
less employees participating in that plan, and those employees that are participating tend to be
older and less healthy. And we're also self-insured. So that drives up the cost of that plan.
One of the reasons that the increase in premiums has gone up, too, and more people have been
moving over to Kaiser is because in 2016, the Board asked us to bring in alignment what we're
paying for the Kaiser share for the employer and what we're paying for the Cigna share and have
them be much closer. We were paying significantly higher premiums from the employer side for
Cigna in order to try to keep those costs lower for the employee. We have switched that over the
last four years so that the employee is actually paying a larger share than they were before and a
larger percentage share than they were in the past.
We were able to reduce the employer share on Delta Dental because their premiums are quite
low there for the employee, and that helped us to offset the increased cost for Cigna. However, if
you look at the chart, we do have an overall increase of 3.1% after we take all the deductions and
increases. And the net amount is $359,000 increase.
Now that number is based on current employee count as of 9/30, so as of September 30. So that
number will change and most likely will go down as employees are separated and no longer on
some of these plans. But we did not have that number available at the time that we put this
package together, and we're continuing to work on that number now.
But in the worst case scenario of what RTD may pay out for these particular health and vision
and dental plan, we're looking at about $359,000. That number has already been incorporated
into what the Board saw last Tuesday when we presented the draft 2021 budget, and it's also
included in the numbers tonight that we'll be presenting to you for the draft 2021 budget. So
that's already been taken in consideration so the Board knows that moving forward. With that, I
would be glad to take any questions that Board members may have.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Thanks very much. And I'm sorry we didn't get to meet Racel
McMurray, but I can sure understand her being busy right now. OK. So I can go around from the
back. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have any questions or comments about this?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Kate Williams, you seconded. Do you have any questions or comments?

KATE WILLIAMS: I do not. I read this, and I think we should move it forward. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Just one comment. Congratulations on keeping the health care increase
cost at under 4%. That's fairly remarkable these days. So I appreciate that greatly. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No questions at this time. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions from me either. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No question.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Sorry, I was on mute. No questions. But thank you for the good work.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions. I actually share Director Whitmore's sentiments. I know it's
difficult to keep those costs low, so I appreciate that we were able to do that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger. Director Guissinger? We can come back to
her. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have one comment, and that is that as the Cigna
costs keep going up, I'm fearful that some of those employees who are covered by Cigna will be
forced into a plan where they may have to choose doctors that they're not familiar with through
Kaiser. I just think that we're on the way to becoming a one-plan organization. And that's just a
comment.

If I were on Cigna, I would be concerned that I would no longer be able to afford it and that I
would be forced over into a plan that would not necessarily allow me to keep my own doctors
and providers. Just a general comment. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, do you want to comment? Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. And I apologize. I forgot to mention this. But we did hire a new
Benefits Coordinator, a broker, so to speak, this year. And one of the things we are discussing
internally is having them go out and look at options because we do recognize that as more and
more people move to Cigna, Cigna might not even want to participate over time because it's not
cost beneficial to them or the cost will become so high. So that is one of the things we're going to
have our new broker look into is how could-- because we have not done that for a period of time,
and I believe it's been about eight years, so eight or nine years. So we will be looking into that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That's good to hear.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, it is good to hear. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Just one quick comment. Medicare for all. That's all I have. Thank
you.
BOB BROOM: [LAUGHS]
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, are we seeing any claims for the COVID virus? And is that likely to cause
our rates next year to jump up?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: Please, go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the only one I would have insight into would be the Cigna group.
Because we're self-insured, Kaiser does not release any information to us about our employees or
their claims, so to speak. And the information would be protected under HIPAA regarding
individuals. But I could check and see in general if we've seen that.
BOB BROOM: OK. That's all I had. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And Director Guissinger sent a text. She says her phone
shows she's not muted, but let's try again. Director Guissinger, you there? I don't know. Roger, if
you can double check on your end. But she says she has no comment.

What I'd like to do-- I wish I had her on the line. But what I'd like to do, it seems like we've
mainly got support. But I'll quickly go through. If it wasn't for that, I would just ask if there was
anybody opposed. But Director Broom, can you please indicate your vote?
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I'd be in favor of this.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm a yes, and Director Guissinger did text me. She's a yes. Is that sufficient,
Melanie Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. We'll take that for now. It looks like staff is resolving
the issue. I think she's not muted anymore on the platform, so it might be her phone.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, she says her phone shows that she's not. But I'll leave that to you all to
work that out with her. OK, with that, 15 aye votes and no no votes. That motion passes. OK,
moving along to the third action, recommended action item. It's a Director-initiated item-approval of free rides-SHELLEY COOK: Oh, good. Approval up free rides for Election Day. And let me read the
motion. It's recommended by Directors Lewis, Tisdale, and Walker that the Board approve the
suspension of fare collection and the provision of free rides for RTD patrons on all of its
scheduled services for the period from 12:00 AM Mountain Standard Time to 11:59 PM
Mountain Standard Time on Tuesday, November 3, 2020.
The recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- core goal number
five, effective communications and community outreach; task goal one, strengthen transparent
public communications and collaboration. OK, I'll turn it over to Director Lewis to present on
this thing.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
This is Director Folska. I move-- I'd like be the mover.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Folska. Yeah, I was going to make it a perfect night in omitting
that. Do I have a second?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, second.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska is the mover, and Director Lewis is the seconder. Sorry
about that, everybody. Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll start out with just stating that before I brought
this to the Board tonight, I reached out to every Director prior to even completing it to learn of

the concerns that folks might have and to really gauge the interest on considering all that we are
grappling with.
And this year, I recognize it's been a whirlwind with national discussions of voter suppression, of
global pandemic, the rise of communities fighting against hate and for racial justice, and budget
deficits to the tune of $215 million. And this recommended action might come to be interpreted
as tone deaf or inconsiderate considering the conversations we've had about layoffs.
I would respectfully present a different frame and share that one day of free fares are not only
good for our patrons but our democracy. Free fares for one day for Americans to fulfill their
civic duty makes a better life for all of us. In fact, in Colorado, we require employers to give up
to two hours of paid time to encourage-- employers to encourage voter participation.
We have a better democracy if we offer this benefit, especially to those utilizing our services.
What we know about our riders is that many rely on our services to access critical, essential
[INAUDIBLE], are essential workers, many of which are low wage earners. Studies have shown
that Black, Indigenous, and people of color, communities that are low income, persons with
disabilities, and youth have consistently low turnout than average. And they cite a number of
different barriers to this.
Affordability and transportation should not be a barrier for Coloradans that desire to vote. In fact,
we should do all that we can to eliminate such barriers. Transit operators across the country offer
free rides not only on Election Day but some as early as-- some with early voting. I'm sure this is
not a new concept. In fact, we will be joining other major cities such as Houston, Dallas, San
Antonio, Tampa, Kansas City, all agencies, I might add, hit financially hard by this global
pandemic and yet have still prioritized free rides on Election Day for their patrons.
The number of transit operators taking this approach continues to grow, and RTD has always
prided ourselves on being trendsetters in our technology and our partnership. And so let's do our
part to not fall behind. I think we all understand the power of voting, power that is built when
people show up. And there are people who have lost their jobs and do not have access to luxury
vehicles to vote. And so I ask that we do not-- that we offer this free rides for our patrons for one
day so that folks can show up. I'm happy to take any questions. I'm also happy to hear from the
cosigners on this recommended action.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. All right, so I'll open it up for questions or discussion, and
we'll just start from the top. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I assume this is new for RTD. I don't recall this being
offered in the past. And the other question I might have is, what do you assume going forward,
that this is going to apply every two years to elections or every two years plus primary elections?
Or is this only going to be for presidential elections?
SHELLEY COOK: OK, it sounds like the first question would be for staff and the second
question for Director Lewis. Is that clear?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we have not done this in the past for Election Days. We typically
do it for New Year's Day, and that's for two reasons, one, to encourage people to take transit
instead of driving while potentially impaired. And the other reason is usually we're trying to do
implement fair changes. And so that gives us a window to be able to make those changes going
forward.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis, this proposal is just for this Election Day.
Are you promoting or will you answer the second part of his question, please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I'm happy to. This proposal is just for this Election Day as it states in
the resolution. I am excited to have conversations with my colleagues on the Board to join other
transit agencies in offering this benefit to their patrons both in primary elections. And so I'm
open to the discussion, but that's not what's being presented here.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No other questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I must have missed my communication from
Director Lewis. The first time I saw this was in our packet when we received it. Nonetheless, I
believe the intent behind this item is admirable, and, in fact, I'm in favor of making the Election
Day a national holiday. However, unlike other states, Colorado's voting starts nearly three weeks
before Election Day with mail-in voting, drop-off voting, and early voting, which started
yesterday as a matter of fact.
And as of today, almost one million people have already voted in Colorado. And because of this
system we have, as in most years, it's going to look like, again, this year. On Election Day, itself
we will have a small number of voters compared to the overall number of voters who actually
vote in Colorado. Problem I have with this again with this item is that there are no facts for us to
consider.
Who will be voting on November 3? How many people will vote on November 3? Do they need
to use RTD? The resolution also talks about the fact that Uber and Lyft already offer free rides
on Election Day. So why are we trying to duplicate this at a cost to us?
The only fact we do know is the cost, right? It's between $85,000 and $115,000. And this is not a
drop in the bucket, especially in a time of crisis. This is someone's job. Taking an action that is
not responsible is not how you get good PR. I will not be supporting this.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis, did you have any additional information you
can offer in response to his comments?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I'm happy to offer a response to his comments. The number that he
quoted, the one million folks have already voted, I think we have about 3.5 million registered
voters in Colorado. The second piece that Director Buzek talked about was that we might have a
small number of folks who might actually vote on Election Day. And so to your point, Director
Buzek, the number that's quoted, the $85,000 to $118,000 actually might be less if you consider
that. And then finally, LA Metro actually offers free rides for Election Day despite California
having universal mail-in voting on this election. And so that's my response.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And, yes, I did have a conversation with Director
Lewis and expressed some of my questions and concerns about this, some of which Director
Buzek already mentioned. But I also wanted to point out that this would not benefit anyone in
my district at all.
The closest bus stop to me for an active route right now is 2 and 1/2 miles away, and the rest of
the 2,300 households in my neighborhood, some of them are as much as five miles away from a
bus stop. And then that only bus route that remains in South JeffCo does not go by a polling
place. And I think that the circumstances in the mountain communities are even more slim.
So I believe that if you look at things through an equity lens, as Director Lewis likes to do and I
agree with, this does not benefit the entire district. And I am worried that we would be perceived
as providing a benefit to a small group or a small demographic. And would it be perceived as
maybe putting our thumb on the scales in favor of certain political parties? I don't know. That
could be a perception.
I am concerned about the cost. But I have a question, and maybe this with the staff. And that will
be, operationally, how do we do this on New Year's, and could it easily translate to Election
Day? And what would be the-- what would be the operational load on staff to get that done?
Those are my questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Ms. McKillop, or whomever.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, this is Heather McKillop. I think Monika is on the line, and she
is our Senior Manager of Revenue, and she has a checklist. So she's aware of what it would take.
And I think in a lot of instances, we wouldn't be able to do what we would normally do just
because of the timing. It's only a couple of weeks out. But I will ask Monica if she could answer
that question.
MONKIA TREIPL-HARNKE: Yeah, this is Monika Treipl-Harnke, Senior Manager of
Revenue. Basically, we can do some of the things we usually do for New Year's. We can
suspend some of the purchases, for example, from ticket vending machines. It really depends on

the date of the decision, if this vote is fairly decisive or not, if we can, for example, suspend
purchases on mobile tickets and on the smart card validators.
So some of it we may be able to do. Some of it we might not. We might be running out of time,
depending how much lead time we have. I think our Communications Department will be able to
do what they can with electronic means. I'm not sure. Again, depends on the specific lead time.
I'm not sure if they can do much printed materials or anything on-- I don't think they'll be able to
do anything on the vehicles. And there's so many things we do for New Year's because it's
something that is recurring every year.
So it would be limited. But definitely we can do whatever is possible in the time. The effort, yes,
it is always a considerable effort to do something, especially for a day. But, again, it would have
to be a little limited, especially for Communication folks. Sorry, I'm trying to quantify. I can't
quantify it. So I will stop talking right now. But, yes, it is doable. We can do some things. We
can't do others, depending on the lead time.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you much. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I apologize, Madam Chair. I was just intrigued. I was listening. I forgot I
was up. I think this is just a wonderful idea. I really, really do. And I'm wondering what staff
might have to say about making sure that people really knew about it. I mean, it seems to me that
if this were to pass and we were to do it, a significant lift of communications would be required
so people know that they can use it who need to. Can someone answer that?
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: This is Monika-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
I'm sorry.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Go ahead, Monika.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Yeah, this is Monica again. That would be something that the
Communications Department would have to answer. I have a meeting with our team tomorrow,
depending on the outcome of this conversation. So we could get back to you on what exactly
they might be able to do with the short time and no budget is allocated.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. So I hate to say this, Director Lewis. I really, really, really love this
idea. But I think it would have been better if we had started this conversation a couple of months
ago instead of now, just exactly two weeks before the day of the election. And then we would be
more equipped to address it. So although I am the mover and I do wish that we could do it, I
don't think we have enough time to be prepared for it and to make it work real well. So for that
reason, I'm not going to be able to support it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you hear me now?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes you can hear me?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, we can hear you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. And I hear the concerns here, and we're not in a great
position in terms of the money. I don't feel like we're putting our thumb on it. There are other
reasons [INAUDIBLE] with the buses and it going and all of that. But I don't think that that puts
us in a position of saving a vote of any sort.
And I'm going to support this. I think that it is a great service to offer. And at the same time, I
guess I would say I didn't understand all of the concerns that Monika was raising, but it just some
way to put it in effect that are easier than others or something along those lines. I would urge
that, too, that I will be a yes vote.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis, I'll skip over you right now but come back to
you at the end. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I'm conflicted about this. Maybe folks don't want to hear about
my conflicts. But nonetheless, I think it's a wonderful thing to be supporting voting. That's
terrific, and it makes us look good, and it's a good thing. But the reality is I don't know how
many people would actually use it as opposed to just getting a free ride. One, there is a lot of
early voting. And two, a lot of people live close to where they would vote. At least that's always
been my experience.
So we don't have any information about how many people would actually use this to vote. On
one level, that doesn't matter. It's just kind of symbolic, like we're saying we support voting, and
I really do support voting. I just think this particular item doesn't really pan out factually that it
really would support voting. My suggestion would be to think about this for next year, to come
up with ideas about how can we actually impact people using our system to vote. We don't know
how much they do. Anyway, so those are my feelings. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Let's see. So to start with when I first heard about the idea, I was
like, yeah, OK. I do, the more I think about it, have concerns about the dollars, although I know
that the dollars are accurate in our present financial situation. I tried to crunch our-- and we're
going to get to it a little bit later in this specific meeting as to a daily impact. And I think the
numbers may be a little bit inflated right now considering we're just talking about 2020.
Still, the argument that any dollar right now, , considering our financial situation, I can't help but
be persuaded especially as a penny pincher. So I'm not sure where I'm going to end up on that.
But I am curious. When we talked about the financial impact-- I'll bring this paragraph to the

attention of those in the meeting for two reasons. So we're on packet page 18 titled "Financial
Impact."
I think we have a typo. And I had to look it up on Google to see if this was really a word. It
actually is a word. You might or you might not want to look up the word. I'll just give you that
heads up. But I don't know if we meant to say "financial impaction." If you look it up, you'll
understand what I'm saying. But if that's a typo, it should be corrected.
Then going on, it says, "The Board and staff will explore partnerships with individuals,
companies, agencies, and governments, including exploration of novel social media funding
mechanisms, in order to identify funding for this community benefit and endeavor." Now I
certainly, loving free market, would prefer that Uber and Lyft be providing this service, which I
haven't done the fact checking on that, and agreeing that we're mostly a mail ballot here in
Colorado.
I am I guess a little bit concerned, especially knowing our divisive political politics for using the
RTD to load up a bus and there is no fare revenue from it. Over two weeks, what is the Board
and staff supposed to do with trying to identify partnerships to pay for it?
So those are the comments I've got. And I bring it up because some of our bus routes are a
horrible subsidy. Again, are COVID and we want only, what, half full on the trains and buses.
I'm not sure what the impact might be. I don't know if any of us know about it. Because at the
end of the day, dirty people are sticking a stamp on it. So those are the comments I've got. I'm
not quite sure where I'm going to end up.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And when Director Lewis and I spoke, I don't recall
the day, but I was definitely inspired by her initiative at putting this together. And then during
our phone call, I was kind of playing devil's advocate, poking some of the holes that others have
mentioned here tonight.
And as we talked about later, the January service changes, and I let them see that there's no bus
routes in Parker now or in the near future. This would have limited applicability for this area,
plus that money someone, including myself, would say, well, that could be used for service in an
area that doesn't currently have service, either out west or out east, as it were.
So I think it's neat. I think the timing is a little-- we're up against the clock as far as the timing
goes. The Board meeting would be next week. And then there really would only be a week for
staff to try to pull this together. Definitely a neat idea, though. But for some of those reasons that
have already mentioned, I'll be a no.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. When I was first presented with the
proposal to provide free rides on Election Day, I thought, well, this is terrific. Let's do all that we

reasonably can to facilitate universal suffrage. And the follow-up question I had to ask, of
course, was, what's it going to cost? Well, when I heard the range of $85,000 to $118,000 for the
financial impact, I was dumbstruck. That's a lot of money.
So the first suggestion that I made to Director Lewis was to clarify that this would be for free
rides just for our scheduled service, not for our on-demand services. My hope is that this
modification would, in fact, reduce the cost so that it would be at the bottom of that $85,000 to
$118,000 range or even lower than that.
Then second suggestion was that we take upon ourselves, the Board and the staff, the task of
soliciting funds from third parties to make up for that financial impact. I believe that there are
companies, persons, and even cities and other agencies that are willing to put their money where
their mouth is. All of these people and these organizations express their enthusiastic and
unbridled encouragement to get out the vote. What better way to get out the vote than to get
people to the polls? There are political parties who could provide support for that as well.
Now I've heard some people say, of course, that we don't need this because the vast majority of
voters will have already voted by mail. Well, I'm confused. I thought we all believed that every
vote counts. If we truly believe that every vote counts, if we truly believe that every vote counts,
then we should band together with others to make sure that every voter can get to the polls easily
and without cost.
I think all of our front-line workers can agree with that proposition more than any group. They
want to see a tremendous voter turnout. I believe that this recommended action would send a
clear and powerful message of accountability to all of our stakeholders, rendering our elected
officials accountable to voters, to all voters, by making their access to the polls easy and free.
And I want to go on the record as speaking in favor of increasing voter turnout. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And I would note for the other Directors that this does restrict to
just the scheduled services. OK, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks Yeah, when Director Lewis and I talked about it, I had a lot of
questions also. Deep down, my gut reaction is, yeah, this sounds great. But I also asked some
questions. How would it work? Et cetera. I'm not concerned about the number of people who
would use this to get to the polls. It might be a very small number. Hopefully everybody who
wants to vote ahead of time gets to vote ahead of time through either a drop box like I have
already or through the mail or early voting.
I think the action is-- my view of it, my initial and current view of it is that it's a symbolic
measure, and it's a statement that, yes, we do support everybody's right and everybody's potential
to get out and vote, and this is how we're enhancing that potential to get out to vote.
I also mentioned to her that the dollars concern me. But, again, I think that the symbology of us
providing access, more access, greater access, even if it's only to a small number of people, even
if it's just a couple of people, we're still behind that effort that allows that action to take place. I

think that over-weighs the costs to the agency, and we know we have funds available for that
also. We also provide discounts for other fixed route service like the two stations on the North
Line. That's a financial cost to this agency also with not a designated purpose other than those
stations exist, and it took a while to get them built.
My real concern is the ability of staff to pull it off. We heard that there might be some technical
issues that could turn this into it's free if you're aware that it's free, so somebody who might
happen to buy a ticket on their phone who didn't know. I guess they're just giving money to the
cause. And I think I'm OK with that.
But anyway, so I'm still in favor of it. I haven't been persuaded to not vote for it. And I told Ms.
Lewis this also-- Director Lewis this also, that I'm overwhelmingly in favor of it. But there might
be a reason where I would vote no or withdraw my support for this time. But I guess this would
my only time since I won't be around next year.
But I'm still wholeheartedly behind the concept. If it doesn't work, if staff can't pull it off or if
they see too many-- and I would need to hear from staff about this-- but if there are too many
obstacles in the way to pull this off effectively so that it doesn't flow smoothly for everybody
involved, that's my only concern. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I, too, had a good conversation with Director
Lewis, as most of my conversations with her are. Always a great deal of noble ideas and
innovation, and I appreciate that. It's good for all of us to have this kind of input.
I love the thought. I just have a couple of consternations that I'm having trouble getting past.
First of all, we received more emails from our employees today. And when I look at the $85,000
to $118,000, albeit theoretical, I see an employee. And maybe it's an employee that has a lot
more time on the job if we keep that fund headed their way.
Secondly, while I really embrace the idea of sponsorships and partnerships, as eloquently
presented by both the Directors Lewis and Tisdale, I fear it's just too late to do that, especially
when we have a second vote at our Board meeting. And I think we're kind of not really giving
our promotional and marketing folks the time they need to make this a success. Excuse me.
Obviously, there's some technical issues as well. So I think begrudgingly, I'm going to have to
vote no tonight.
However, I think this bears more conversation in the future with other transit agencies doing this.
And I think it's a good idea that we should revisit and try and at least have a proposal to the
Board once again for more of an approach that gives us plenty of time to promote and look for
sponsorships.
I don't want to see the door slammed on the idea tonight or at the Board meeting. I think it's
meritorious of more discussion. And I thank Director Lewis and the co-sponsors Walker and

Tisdale for bringing it forward. It's a good conversation to have. Thank you for the time, Madam
Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I, too, have a number of thoughts on this. I'm
inclined to agree with Director Lubow. I think that next year, we should do this. We should plan
to do this. I'm with Director Walker that I absolutely love the idea, and I told Director Lewis that
I absolutely love the idea.
I have a couple of questions and a couple of statements, and I'll just put them all out at once, and
then we'll see where we go with that. I'm wondering if we have the support of our union, of our
employees in this, those who are having mandatory furlough days and having their salaries cut, if
anybody has asked them if they're in favor of doing this.
I did suggest to Director Lewis that we just allow those with a ballot in their hand or with an I
Voted sticker to ride for free, and then we wouldn't have to do a lot with changing our fare
system. We could just put out to our drivers that somebody who had an I Voted sticker or could
show their ballot could ride for free. That might make [INAUDIBLE] easier.
I have also reached up to Lyft and Uber to ask them how they plan to accommodate those riders
because it was pointed out to me that although Lyft and Uber are offering a free ride, you
probably have to have a credit card and the app on your smart phone to use those services. So
maybe they're not such a good deal. My initial feeling was, why would anybody ride a bus when
they could have a free Lyft ride? But that may not happen also.
And then I wonder if anybody has taken the time to talk to Pauletta, to our Communications
Department to see if this is going to be, in fact, a benefit to us in terms of a public relations
outlook. And I also look to see how many people theoretically would be affected and came up to
a bunch of numbers. Yes, a million people across the state have already voted in our district. I
couldn't get how many in Colorado have already voted. But it looks like this offer might affect
under 10,000 people all told. So I don't know. I don't think we do have enough.
But I wondered, next time we do this, when we were working on the low income program, the
PATH program working group was approached by Mile High Connects, who said that they had
$2 million that they would be willing to put into helping with low income fares and discounted
fares for underserved. And I wonder if they would support this issue and if they would maybe
contribute the $105-- or $85,000 or whatever it is that we figured it would cost.
So I don't think I can support this this year. I support the idea. I really appreciate Director Lewis
moving us all forward on ideas like this. And then my last question was, are we setting a
precedent? Does this open us up to having to offer free service at any other time? I'm just
wondering what the legal ramifications of it are. So as I said, I will be a no this time around.
Thank you. Sorry to be so long.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. And, Director Lewis, you may have some information. I would like to
go to the Chair first and then return to you for some final comments or answers and so forth.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I, too, had a long conversation with
Director Lewis. And one of the things that I was stuck on was the amount of money that this
would take. Number one for me, on-demand service, to not provide that is a Title VI infraction,
and so I'd be very concerned about that.
But secondarily, $85,000 to $115,000 equates to three bus drivers for a year. And in light of our
financial situation and the difficult decisions and the families' lives we're about to impact, I can't
in good conscience vote for this this evening. I agree with everyone else. It's a great idea. I would
love to have partnerships. I would really like to have a robust fundraising event so that we could
get our partners to pay for something like this in the future. But I just don't think that we're ready
to move it forward in such a fast pace, especially in light of the difficult decisions we need to
make. So I will be a no this evening. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis, any quick wrap-up or response to, for example,
Kate Williams's questions or comments?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So there was a lot to capture, and so I'll do my best to address as
much of it as I can. I will let you all know that I saw a report that four times the number of
people have been doing in-person voting. That could be because of concerns around mail-in
voting. Excuse me. But I did want to bring that into the conversation since it's come up a few
times.
I think Director Catlin shared this concern, and she shared this concern offline with me that she
felt that this was an equity issue. And actually, the N Line, the free rides on the N Line is
actually an equity issue because we would be offering this benefit to all riders. It would not be
inequitable. And so I appreciate you raising that concern.
Let's see here. I think Director Lubow asked about how do we get the information about who is
riding. I mean, Director Lubow, there's no way to be able to do that. I mean, it's similar to free
rides for active service members. We don't know the number of active service members that
utilize our services for free throughout the year. And so I will address that.
I think there was also-- maybe Director Rivera-Malpiede brought up partnerships. And she
knows this, but others who, for the sake of the record-- I have reached out to a number of both
elected and other folks that we might partner with to be able to see about funding this.
There was a concern that we might not be able to do this from a coordination standpoint. I will
let you all know that I reached out to staff some time ago, actually, back in September about how
this might work. And that included both Heather and Pauletta, to answer your question, Director
Williams.

And I think I'll just conclude with one of the-- an observation that I have and being a viewpoint
that I think is often absent for this-- often absent for this Board and taking into consideration our
community rights. I think from a cost perspective, I totally hear you. There are folks-- your point,
Director Catlin-- who are in marginalized communities who actually don't have access to cars.
And I think that's probably-- that many of the folks within your district might actually have
access to cars.
I did do my due diligence before it came to the Board to serving folks to see where we might
alleviate worries, angst before putting this forward. And many folks were supportive of thinking
about this in a logical way, and that's often how it happens. I think the pervasive nature of white
supremacy is always not about hoods, right?
It is this. It's those who are doing harm in our communities, who seek to unravel what we are
trying to do for the people. And we oftentimes serve our capitalist interest of the 1%, and I don't
think that's intentional. But I think it's something that we should call out in this moment because
I think it's important.
And I don't want anyone to think that I'm being confrontational because I hear this all the time on
the Board from some Board members or that I'm angry or crying over spilt grapes because that's
not it at all. But I do want to challenge those descriptions. But I'm just really hoping that we can
move forward and not continue to neglect people as we move forward in our solutions.
This is simple. It's one day. It's not lavish snacks. It's not catered lunches. It's not the opening of
N Line and giving away freebies. It's not the free fares on the N Line. And we do have money in
our FISA account, millions of dollars. And I'm not saying to use this money towards that.
But I'm saying that we genuinely have a concern about keeping folks employed. We can do that
today. And we can do that with money in our FISA account and not burden those that can't
afford to miss an hour of work, which equates to the mission lunch in their homes. And so I just
hope that we will do the right thing. It's easy. This is easy to do to alleviate the burden not just
for normal times but during a global pandemic. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And I'll just add a quick comment. I wanted to support this. I
had some questions when you called and had then some follow-up emails with good information.
I guess the place I finally land is that the impact is significant enough, and it's in a year when we
can-- that scarce dollars are even more so. And we don't have enough time to really do it in a
way that I think gives the benefit that is possible.
So I agree with comments made that want this idea to be carried forward but maybe in a time
frame for next year or the next general election or something where we could make sure that
we're getting the maximum benefit, that our riders are seeing the maximum benefit. So anyway,
I'll go ahead and call the vote here. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I'll start with you and work
backwards.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I'm a no.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am also a no vote regretfully for this year.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. Director Tisdale. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. I had muted. Yes. Thank you, ma'am. Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm going to be a no tonight.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm going to be a yes, seeing if it moves forward for more discussion.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm going to be a no. But I wanted to thank Director Lewis for once again
bringing forward a very interesting, creative idea. But I am a no vote.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Listening to everyone, I have changed my vote
to a yes, and I would like to see this move forward and have further discussions. But I won't be
on the Board next year. And by all means, I sure hope that Director Lewis brings this forward
and makes it a standing offering to our communities. I think it sends a very profound and
important, impactful message that we are all in this together. And I think more time needs to be

given and devoted to this. But it is important. So thank you again, Director Lewis, for bringing
this forward. So I'm a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, got it. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm still very torn about this. And I think in the interest of moving it forward
for discussion at the Board meeting, I think I'll be a yes. But I do want to say that I'm going to
look into this a little bit more to answer some of my questions. So this yes tonight is no guarantee
that it will be a yes next Tuesday. But I think it does merit some additional discussion. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a no. So let me count carefully. I'm showing 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 yeses
and 8 nos. Barbara, does that give with your count?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it does. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so that one passes. And naming the people who were-VINCE BUZEK: It fails.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, it fails.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yeah, I said the wrong thing. No, I'm just trying to top my night here. So
it fails. Forgive me. With Director Broom, Director Buzek, Director Cook, Director Lubow,
Director Mihalik, Director Whitmore, Director Williams, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede voting
against, opposed.
And if it's any-- the staff on a close vote, even if a few people had switched their votes, I don't
think they would have been able to get going with that slim of a margin. So it would have further
hampered the rollout of this. And when we do it, I know everybody would want it to be
successful. So, OK, thank you, Director Lewis, for bringing it forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Madam Chair, I appreciate you sharing that. I was sharing is that
when I initially reached out to staff, that wasn't communicated to me. And so had I had that
information, I would have been able to address it. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Got it. OK, so that wraps up our recommended actions tonight,
and we'll move on to updates. So I believe we have representatives from the Leeds School of
Business here. And, gentlemen, my apologies for it being this late. I'm going to first ask Heather
McKillop and Doug MacLeod to introduce this item. This is an update, sales and use tax update
and your forecast. Go ahead, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. I'm going to ask Doug MacLeod to
introduce this subject and our guests that will be speaking from Leeds. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod. So twice
a year, the team from Leeds School of Business comes in to do a presentation to the Board. They
provide us these sales and use tax forecasts twice a year to coincide with our annual budgeting
process, as well as our MTFP and amended budget process. So this is the fall visit. The
presentation begins on packet page 21. And then the actual forecast report itself begins on packet
page 38.
The team from CU Leeds is Rich Wobbekind, Miles Light, Robert McNown, and Brian
Lewandowski. They promised us to move quickly through the slides to leave time for question.
And I believe either Robert or Brian will do the presentation tonight. So please go ahead,
gentlemen.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Thank you, Doug. It's actually Rich starting off. But tonight with me will
be Robert McNown and Brian Lewandowski to answer questions. Robert will do the second part
of the presentation on the forecast. And can I ask just quickly, does everybody hear me?
SHELLEY COOK: We can hear you clearly. Thank you.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Great. Thank you. So we've enjoyed working on this contract and
working with the staff and with the Board. And tonight, we're going to give you an update from
what we presented earlier in the year. Certainly, I don't need to spend too much time telling you
that a government shutdown has really given us unprecedented declines in GDP and employment
followed by unprecedented increases in GDP and unemployment and just significant behavioral
changes. So that's what I'm going to show here in the first 10 or so slides. And then Robert's
going to take it over with the actual discussion of the revenue forecast.
So if you look at page 22 of your packet, the quarterly GDP forecast, you can see at the very end
there that we had in the past quarter, which I'm sure you're very familiar with, quarter over
quarter a minus 31% decline. Perhaps better to view these things in year over year. So in the
second quarter, we were down 9% in terms of GDP when we were sort of assessing the forecast
that we gave you.
This coming quarter, we think will be somewhere in the range of, quarter over quarter, about a
25% increase but still going to be down about 4.4% year over year. So you can see the numbers
that are on the actual slide. Minus 4.4% anticipated for the year for 2020, and then 2021, an
increase of 3.8%. So I would be remiss not to say that every month as we're seeing more and

more macro data, the forecast for this year, 2020, has been getting stronger, and the forecast for
next year, 2021, has been getting a little bit weaker. Some of that growth is being pulled forward.
If you move on to page 23 of your packet, you can see the dramatic decline that occurred in
February and March and into April in terms of employment-- minus 22.2 million. At this point in
September, we're starting to see a little bit of Tapering but we're up about 11.4 million, which
still leaves us a solid 10 million behind where we were from peak employment. So while the
recovery has been significant, it's a long way to go.
And to give you some context there, if we move to page 24 of your packet, you can see the
months to recovery of the various recessions. And in particular, I would highlight the last two
recessions that we're most familiar with, the 2001 tech recession, which was very tough on
Colorado, and the 2008 Great Recession, as we call it. You can see how long those periods of
time took to recovery. And in fact, we described those as jobless recession recoveries because it
took us so long to get there.
But I'd also point out that at this particular point, we're 7% below peak and 6.4% below a year
ago. And the point of all of those numbers is simply that we're lower now in terms of how much
of our job loss than we ever were in the 2008 Great Recession. So even with all the recovery
we've seen, we're still below the deepest part of the 2008 to 2010 recession.
If we move ahead to page 25, this is part of what was some of the differences between this
recession and previous recessions. As I mentioned, the government shutdown, which we had not
seen before. We typically see a dramatic drop off in personal income when we have a recession.
So we were doing the forecast back in March. For the May forecast. we didn't have April data.
Little did we know that April would turn out to be a record setting increase in personal income
due to a record setting increase in transfer payments. You can see that up in the upper box, if you
will, that we've called out, along with at the exact same time, a record decrease in employee
compensation. Think of that as wages and benefits. And a near record decrease in terms of per
prior income, in terms of percentages.
So the self-employed and the employed covered people lost tremendous amount of income. But
with the tax checks, which were cut on April 15, and also the unemployment insurance, the
additional $600 which came into play in the third week of April, all of that in terms of transfers
was a dramatic boost to the economy.
So if we move on to page 26 of your packet, you can see something also that was extremely
unusual. Typically, with economic downturns, we see a drop off in purchase of goods and
particularly in durable goods, meaning things that last a long period of time-- automobiles,
carpeting, refrigerators, ranges, things that we would invest in that are higher price items, bigger
ticket items, and tend to last a longer period of time.
The area that is typically least affected by economic downturns is the services sector. They tend
to be less expensive, the things we don't want to give up. So we continue to consume services

even when we have an economic downturn. Well, this particular recession turned that topsy
turvy.
So you look at the last bar over there. The red is services. Because of the shutdown, we weren't
able to consume travel services. We were unable to consume personal services. We were not able
to consume as many health services. So we moved completely out of services in a very huge
way, and we moved a little bit out of non-durable goods. But actually durable goods were
essentially flat.
And since that point in time in Q3, even though we don't have the final data yet, we know people
bought a lot of appliances, bought a lot of automobiles, and really moved into consumer durable
goods. So really interesting sort of behavioral shift.
So consumption dropped in that quarter by $1.5 trillion and $1.25 trillion of that drop was
specifically in services. So very unusual, but interesting in terms of tax forecasting because a lot
of services are untaxed, but goods, generally speaking, are taxed. So that shift certainly had an
impact in terms of how we look at the forecasting picture.
So pulling that together on page 27, you can see the increase in income, which was
unprecedented, in the top bar, in the tan bar, the change in consumption, which was also
unprecedented, dipping down so significantly in the second quarter. At the same time, we see
this incredible ramp up in savings, the red on the bottom. And that, of course, has dropped off
now in the more recent months. But still, the savings rate at 15%, dramatically higher than it's
been historically.
So huge bump in income through the transfer payments, a huge drop in consumption, but really a
huge drop in services, service consumption, and then a huge increase in savings. And although
not on any of these slides for brevity purposes, a big pay down in debt as part of that surplus of
savings over consumption.
So we look quickly at national retail and food services sales, again, in terms of consumption.
And you can see on your slide a 1.5% increase from the prior peak. If we look at this with the
September numbers, which just came out after this report was submitted, it's up even higher at
4.2% year over year.
Again, when we did the early May forecast that you saw before, this was the situation. If you
look at the next slide, if you look at slide 29, you can see the national retail sales change from
February to April. And you can see this dramatic drop off in all of the categories, except
electronics shopping, mail order, e-commerce, if you will, the very top one, and then food and
beverage stores. So we saw people again going to liquor stores and going to grocery stores
because they were not able to go to restaurants and other places to consume food. So you see
those-- again, see that behavioral shift.
If we look at the next slide, you can see the August year over year slide in slide 30. And what
you tend to see there is that it highlights the behavioral change that's occurred year over year.
The very top category, building materials and garden equipment. Again, people investing a lot

more in their homes and in home improvements. Sporting goods and hobby and musical, people
playing more instruments, putting in trampolines, putting in swimming pools, all the things that
you've seen in your neighborhoods.
And then food and beverage stores. And looking down at the bottom, still, year over year,
clothing down over 20%, department stores and restaurants. So we still have this kind of change
or displacement, even though we are slowly starting to see the movement back to some of the
services, personal services-- hair, barbershops, and those types of things-- and also health
services, which had slowed down. We're starting to see people being more willing to go back to
see their doctors, to see their eye doctors, and so on, their dentists.
So with that, I pass the baton to my colleague, Robert McNown, Professor McNown. And he'll
talk to you about the forecast piece of the presentation.
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Hello. Can you hear me OK? This is Robert McNown.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, we can hear you. OK, great.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah. So I'll be taking over at page 31. And this just re-emphasizes, with
a lot of numbers there, what Rich was saying. I'll just highlight a few points that if you look at
the very middle of this table, the percent change in real GDP. And you can see for 2020 it's on
track to decline by about 4-and-1/4% and then showing a recovery of most of that in 2021.
Now these figures are based on forecasts from Moody's Analytics that we rely on for these
national economic forecasts. And these national economic variables then drive the Colorado
economy that we model, as well as ultimately, then, the RTD revenues. So understanding what's
going on or what we expect to go on at the national level is key to understanding what we expect
for the Colorado economy and also for RTD.
This table also emphasizes the anomalies that we're facing that also we saw in some of Rich's
slides, that, for example, we've got in 2020 retail sales basically stagnant and then surging in
2021, according to the Moody's forecasts. But at the same time, this is not upheld by what's
happening to personal income, that we have this boom in personal income in 2020 and then a
decline expected in 2021. And, of course, that's from the failure to follow through on a stimulus
package, or at least it won't be as significant as what we had in the first round. So keep in mind
that disconnect in what we have in traditional relations between variables because that poses a
major problem, a major challenge for the forecasting.
Basically, in the next slide on page 32, we have similar data for Colorado. For some indicators,
the Colorado economy is a little bit stronger. For example, in the labor market, we see a slightly
higher growth in employment in 2021 and more substantial reduction in the unemployment rate.
So that aspect of the Colorado economy is a little bit more favorable.

Other aspects are not as strong. For example, in retail sales, we don't see a strong recovery in
2021, and that's due to structural differences in the Colorado economy compared to the nation as
a whole, in particular our greater emphasis on tourism. So ultimately, the US and then the
Colorado economic variables drive the forecast for RTD. And then on page 33, you see our
baseline RTD revenue forecasts.
And so the baseline forecast, we're presenting what we think is the most likely outcome. We
also, as you'll see, present other alternatives to provide a range of possible outcomes. And what
we're seeing here is that in 2020, revenues are expected to be down by 5.8%, but then a pretty
strong recovery in 2021 at 5.5%, which isn't, of course, quite enough to bring us back to the
previous peak. Instead, we would regain our previous 2019 peak in total tax revenues some time
early in 2022, according to this forecast.
And then from that point forward-- and we do present as a medium range forecast out to 2026-you can see that there's moderately strong growth, pretty strong growth following from 2022 on
and so moving back to a similar sort of robust economic growth pattern that we had before the
pandemic.
In the next slide on page 34, you can see some alternative scenarios. And these are based on
alternative assumptions that Moody's considers and what their likely impact would be on the
national economic variables. And those, in turn, would trace you into the Colorado economy and,
of course, affect RTD revenues as well.
So for example, if you compare the baseline scenario with the pessimistic scenario, well, in the
baseline scenario, Moody's was assuming that we would have by now adopted a second stimulus
package. I know that today was the deadline, and according to Speaker Pelosi, I haven't heard
any news about that. So I suppose we're assuming the result is the pessimistic scenario has
suddenly become more likely.
There's also an assumption of a much greater delay in the development and widespread
dissemination of a vaccine. And so both of those factors then contribute to, you can see,
considerably lower rate of growth, basically stagnation in terms of RTD revenues in 2021. So
that would be a somewhat grimmer picture undoubtedly. And then only finally in 2022 and
beyond would we have significant recovery from this pandemic-induced recession.
So it's important to present these alternative scenarios because we're in the face of a great deal of
uncertainty, and it's difficult to anticipate from the political environment exactly what the
outcomes are going to be in terms of stimulus. It's difficult to anticipate from the science
community what the outcomes will be in terms of development of a vaccine or other forms of
treatment. And so the best that we can do is consider these alternative scenarios and provide
them to the staff and the Board as what we think is a reasonable range of alternative outcomes in
the coming years.
Of course, the forecasts that we're presenting here and these forecasts you see on page 34 were
developed in early September, and circumstances do change quickly. And so for that reason and
because of the great uncertainty and volatility in the economy, we've offered monthly updates of

our forecasts to try to incorporate the most current information that's available and help RTD try
to adjust to this new information. And through the summer, the updates have generally shown
fairly gradual improvement in the outlook for the economy and for RTD collections then
compared to what we had prior to the summer, the partial recovery we've experienced since then.
And then onto the next page, 35. So we also provide for RTD this long range forecast going out
30 years out to 2050. And so you can see that here I'm just summarizing this with the long-term
forecasts of the average annual rates of growth in-- well, if you look at the furthest right column
there, it's sort of cut off. It's RTD taxable sales, which is essentially equivalent to RTD sales tax
revenues. And that's, as you know, the major component of your tax revenues.
So that gives you a fairly complete picture of what to expect according to our model over this 30year period. And you can see then that in the current decade ending this year, RTD experienced
fairly robust collections, even despite what's happening now in 2020. But those are going to fall
off, each successive decade showing a lower average annual rate of growth.
And largely in our model, this is attributable to demographic change that's summarized by lower
population growth and, in particular, an aging of the population, which puts a greater burden-say, a greater tax burden on the working age population tends to reduce rates of savings and
investment. And all of that has consequences for lower productivity and lower economic growth,
and, consequently, ultimately lower retail sales and sales tax revenues.
And then finally, just to conclude here, I want to summarize a few points about the nature of our
forecasts. As I mentioned, we've provided monthly updates this year because of the frequent
changes in the economic environment. Your forecasts have always been updated to try to reflect
the most recent economic situation. One thing we've emphasized all along is that there's always
uncertainty in our forecasts. The forecasts may be too high or too low.
However, our record of forecasting, at least up until the onset of the pandemic, we think has been
very good. Our average forecast error is approximately 1% of total tax revenues. And I think
that's a remarkable record. And, in fact, our forecast errors are equally balanced on the high and
the low side, pretty much offsetting one another.
And these forecasts are generated from an econometric model that uses the state of the art and
most appropriate econometric methods. And we think this provides the most value that we can
offer to the staff and to the Board about what we think is the likely outcome for the economy in
the short run, the medium run, and the long run. And we certainly appreciate the opportunity to
serve the staff and the Board in providing these forecasts, and we hope we will continue this
collaboration into the future. And that's the end of our presentation. We're open for questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. And I wanted to say at the outset that we've
appreciated the additional support you've provided this year. The monthly forecasts I think have
been helpful as we've tried to navigate such an uncertain period. I'll open it up for questions. One
thing to note is that we had a study session a week ago when some of this information, especially
as it relates to our particular forecast, was presented. So don't take a lack of questions necessarily

as lack of interest. We had a good opportunity last week to talk about it. So I'll start from the top.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had a couple of questions. On one of the last
graphs, you show RTD's taxable sales for 2021 through 2030 growing at 4%. Is that the medium
forecast? And then the follow-up question is, is that if you assumed a 3% inflation rate, then that
means that the real growth is about 1% a year.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah, those are good questions. So you're right that for the coming
decade, 2021 to 2030, we're projecting a 4% annual rate of growth in RTD sales tax revenues.
And that is in nominal current dollar terms, meaning that if you discount that at some appropriate
rate of inflation-- which our projection is that the nominal rate of inflation is more on the order of
2% per year. And so that means in real terms the RTD sales tax revenues would be growing at
2% per year.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you very much. That's all I have.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Sure.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Thanks for the comprehensive report and the succinct
summary of that report. As Director Cook indicated, we did have the opportunity to review a lot
of this and discuss it earlier, so I do not have any questions or comments at this time. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, thank you for the comprehensive report. The comments regarding the
stimulus package and then also the vaccine are sobering and make me inclined to still want to
move forward on a conservative approach. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I always love hearing from you guys. It's been
a pleasure. And I had a couple of thoughts and questions. At first, trying to get out of this
pandemic-induced recession, I started thinking as I was listening that, wow, OK, well, we've got
some stuff we can do like finish FasTracks and the Northwest Rail.
And then as I continued to listen to your presentation, I was like, oh, man, the long-term range
and the aging population and the reduction in sales tax revenue, I think that's really an important
piece to look at for RTD when we're considering how to finish FasTracks and, in particular, the
Northwest Rail. Because I think a lot of folks like to use the rail for commuting to work. And if
we've got a bunch of folks who are in that corridor who are retired and not working, the ridership
numbers may not be there. So I'm wondering, can you all comment on that, please? [LAUGHS]

RICH WOBBEKIND: This is Rich. I'll start, but my colleagues are more astute at this. But this
is something we're watching very closely, not just for retirement. Robert pays a lot of attention to
that with the modeling. But we're also not sure what the impact's going to be on people working
from home, at least part of the time, and whether or not we're going to see the same sort of
occupancies in the core area like, say, downtown Denver that we saw in the past.
Will cities return to be the same cities they were before is I guess what I'm trying to say. And
you're reading this in the paper. I'm not telling you anything super insightful. But it is something
we're paying a lot of attention to. We're trying to track the real estate trends heavily, and there is
some question of whether or not, going forward, that people are going to be building office space
out in the more suburban areas in lower density to not be in high rises and so on. So this is not a
good answer to your question. We don't know. But we are definitely focused on that. Will things
return to the same path they were in the past?
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. OK, right. It is hard to know. But more importantly, I think the
baby boomer and retiring folks and the smaller-- and migration, I guess you could say, to
Colorado for our sales tax revenue in particular and buying those big items that you referred to in
your report. And also, can you do a little discussing real quick on this alphabet recovery
discussion of a V, a U, and a K? And are we looking at a K?
RICH WOBBEKIND: The K recovery comes from-- oh, OK, go ahead, Robert.
ROBERT MCNOWN: No no. I was going to defer to you, Rich, or Brian.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Decay recovery comes from sort of a haves and have-nots. And in fact,
we've seen that in terms of the first wave of all the layoffs were much more heavily concentrated
on the low wage jobs. So we saw that kind of down versus the higher wage jobs in some of those
industries, including in Colorado specifically biotech, aerospace, and some of the cloud space all
doing extremely well. So that's where sort of the K comes from.
Our forecasts are more based on a combination of those two pieces together, which we tend to
call the swoosh. So some areas recover more rapidly, but then you have a much longer return,
particularly in Colorado because of conventions. And Denver, of course, very susceptible to that
convention visitors' tourism piece. And that we see as a much longer road to recovery.
You may find interesting the first several months, the impact was really on the low income wage
earner. The more recent collateral damage is spreading to the middle income wage earner, jobs in
government, and higher level jobs even with, generally speaking, lower wage sectors of the
economy. So we saw the unemployment rate, for example, impacting associate-level-educated
and college-educated people actually rising in the last month compared to the previous month.
So it's moving up a little bit, and that sort of disputes decay a little bit.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And then real quick, finally, climate change is a big issue, and I don't
see that in your reports. And I've asked about it before. Are you going to start integrating the
impacts of climate change into your forecasts?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, I have to admit, Director Folska, that when I look at these long
range forecasts, I always think about you because you keep reminding us that this is very
important. And when I look at the picture of stagnation that we see in these long range forecasts
with the RTD taxable sales rate of growth declining decade after decade after decade, I have to
think that even though climate change is not explicitly incorporated in the model, that I wouldn't
be at all surprised if some of the slowing of productivity that's implied by these projections is
possibly a reflection of that outcome as well as the problem of aging that the model emphasizes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
RICH WOBBEKIND: Since my first answer was not satisfactory in this, can I just highlight the
fact that even though we have an aging population, Robert's absolutely correct about that? The
population continues to grow at a slower pace but continues to grow. So there's still an
expanding workforce throughout this entire horizon in terms of people who could be potentially
thriving on the Northwest Rail and other places. Again, you do have retirees. But you also have
people who are going to be working and a larger number of people who are going to be working
over time, a smaller percentage of the entire population, but a larger absolute number.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, it might also be interesting to see how climate change impacts
migration. And I think Colorado, because of our altitude and so on, that we're going to have a lot
of climate refugees, and that could change your forecast as well. So I think making an explicit
look at it might be useful. I don't know. That's all, Madam Chair. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you so much. Director Guissinger. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. Can you hear me now? I also was surprised at the long-term
numbers, the 2031 to 2040 and 2041 to 2050. What are the population growth assumptions that
you're using there?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Oh. I'm sorry, I'd have to refer to the full report. Let me see.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's OK. I can-ROBERT MCNOWN: Brian, do you have that? Do you have that handy?
RICH WOBBEKIND: It's the state demographer's forecast. Go ahead. Sorry.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: For Colorado, we use the state demographer's forecast. And for the
nation, we either use census when it's available, when they update it through 2050. Or we've
started using the Moody's forecast for population out through 2050 simply because they're

updating it more frequently than census does. Census only updates it every few years. So we
found it helpful to use the Moody's forecast. And we do publish that forecast near the end of the
report. So I'll send Heather an email of where to find that in the report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. I believe it's on page 97, table 41.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that the Moody's or the state demographer? Are they both there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is just the Colorado historical and forecasted population and
discusses births, deaths, and migration, natural increases.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: The national data's in table 42 on page 59 of our report, page 98 of
the packet. And then the state data's from the demography office, as Heather mentioned, on page
60, page 99 of your packet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Thanks. It's always fascinating.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing for me. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Thank you for the work and the report. I, too, had a question about climate
change. I don't know if you guys read the UN reports that have been coming out pretty fast and
furiously that basically say that if by 2030 we don't massively change what we do with energy,
that we're going to hit feedback loops that are going to basically make, at some point, life
unlivable.
I mean, we're talking about incredibly serious things. And I have seen forecasts about not having
enough water, not having enough food, et cetera. So we're not just talking about, oh, we're going
to leave off on some rate of expansion. But we're talking about really pretty catastrophic things,
and it's not in the realm of science fiction. These are government reports.
So I just think it would be really important for economists who are doing forecasts way into the
future to really have a handle on this stuff because if any of it's true, which I imagine it is, it's
going to have an enormous, enormous impact on the economy.
ROBERT MCNOWN: I certainly agree. It is something that we need to pay attention to. And at
this point, all that we can offer is that, as with the other forecasts, we present this range that
incorporates some amount of uncertainty. And so for example, on this page 35, on the graph, you
can see that in addition to the medium forecasts that I've been focusing on, the red line gives a
low forecast that you might assume incorporates some fairly negative assumptions about impacts
such as climate change.

You can see that for a period of about 10 years from 2020 to almost 2030, that line is basically
flat, showing virtually no growth in RTD sales tax revenues. And then, of course, some growth
does take place, but leaving us at a much lower position than we would be with the medium
forecasts. And that's the best that we can do. At this point, I think there's just so much uncertainty
about climate change and its impact on various economic phenomena. But at least with these
statistical bounds, you might be able to consider that as useful information.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: This is Judy again. Yeah, I just want to say, I mean, I really thank you for the
work, and I do. It's just that if you read any of the UN reports, they keep getting worse. I've been
here for eight years, and I guess I've seen you guys for eight years, and the reports keep getting
worse. And it just seems to me, frankly, if somebody says there's going to be a catastrophe and if
that is not even addressed, it's like not looking at things that have to be addressed. Anyway, I just
had to say that because reports do keep getting worse.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I've dug through this report. I'm pretty beat. A lot of markups. I think
at the end of the day for me in highlighting sections from the presentation going down into the
executive summary, which, well, it's hard to say summary on it, but it does make me definitely
want to lean towards low forecast for our planning. I'll leave it at that. Thanks for the
presentation.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll just say that statistics like GDP and things like
that are just-- become a political tool. For instance, if you're not familiar, with those that are
familiar, something like a hurricane comes through, wipes out the city and cars and everything
else, well, that's a plus to the GDP. We have to rebuild all that versus a loss of those things. And
so GDP is just kind of a worthless measure.
Plus, I know in the report inflation is mentioned as far as in tables and stuff like that. But the socalled recovery, which I don't use that word except to discredit it, is all inflation-driven. I mean,
the government printed $7 trillion this years. And Moody's is showing a 2% inflation rate. That's
just absolutely wrong.
So yeah, I would also lean-- not just lean. I will stand on the low forecast because there's a
commercial real estate bubble that is going to burst. Housing is going to burst again. I mean,
mortgage rates hit an all-time low last week trying to inflate all the assets again. The stock
market bubble. It's really the-- we're right now in the bubble of bubbles, and there's nothing else
that's going to support it. There's no-- yeah, they're running out of tools. So I'll also be on the low
forecast going forward. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale.
ROBERT MCNOWN: This is Robert again. I appreciate those comments, too. And I just want to
respond a bit to the first point. We certainly see the flaws in GDP. And for us, it's simply a tool
that measures overall economic activity. We don't take that as a measure of economic welfare by
any means. But it's a useful tool for driving some of the other variables that have had much more
to do with economic welfare, such as employment, total employment, and then also for our
purposes, of course, to forecast RTD sales tax revenues. But thank you for your comments on
that. I think you've made some good points there.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for that response. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Rich, as always, good to hear your
voice and good to know that you're doing well. And thank all of you from Leeds for your
information. I'd like to focus for just a second on your estimate of the accuracy of the forecast
evaluations. And am I correct in looking at page 37 of your report? It's packet page 76 for the
narrative discussion of that, which is then followed by two pages of charts.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Getting there.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah, that's right. I think I would defer to Brian, who's done the analysis
on this.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Well, I mean, that's what it appears to say, and I just wanted to be able
to point people to that so they'd have some sense of the general accuracy. And when you refer to
accuracy, are you, in fact, at that point assessing your medium forecast or your base forecast
against the actual numbers in retrospect to determine the accuracy? Or are you using your
pessimistic forecast or your optimistic forecast when assessing that accuracy compared with
actual numbers for each of the relevant quarters?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ROBERT MCNOWN: Go ahead.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I can tell you that we use the baseline forecast or the medium
forecast. So we did not choose the more optimistic or pessimistic ones when we were reviewing
accuracy. We used what we considered the baseline forecast.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you for confirming that. Because the point I'm trying to make with
that is that using that baseline forecast, what we might in layman's terms call the medium
forecast, you have been within 1% of actual numbers over the quarters that are reflected
beginning, I guess, with Q1 2011. Is that a fair statement?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Yes, that's correct.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. The reason I mentioned that is we've had a number of comments
even this evening that we would be much more comfortable going with the pessimistic or the
extreme low forecast in all of these circumstances. And I would submit that the 40 quarters or so
that you've been doing this with us that you report here, you've been within 1% of your baseline
forecast. That was my only observation, Madam Chair. thank you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So it's been a pleasure listening to these forecasts for the past eight,
nine years. Been fantastic. I'm going to miss-- well, I guess I can always tune in, huh? So it
might be that the smaller rates of growth is OK if there's not as much demand.
So if we have an older population that doesn't need to go to work or go to different places, it
might be OK because we don't need to put as much service out there because there's not as much
demand for it. We're not just having growth for the sake of growth, at least as it pertains to this
agency. If the jurisdictions don't have as much money, maybe they won't build their roads as
wide. Their infrastructure won't be as future-- won't be as difficult to maintain or as expensive to
maintain.
So maybe they'll pull that in and make their cities more walkable, more bikeable, et cetera, so the
places where people need to go are in a closer circumference. There are days now when I don't
even think about have to driving-- where I don't have to think about driving anymore because
everything I need is pretty close to where I live now. I can ride my bike or walk to most places
that I go to these days. So that might be a benefit of what we're experiencing now, maybe,
hopefully.
But I think that eventually-- we're social animals. We'll come back, and we'll start to see cities
and density and all those things rise up again with the development that we do see, even if those
patterns change. I think we might see those patterns replicated in smaller areas but still that dense
pattern.
And one thing for Director Lubow. I'm not as concerned as she is because I remember that
phrase peak oil that was really popular back in like '02 or '03. If I remember correctly, back in
April or March, oil producers were paying people to take their oil. So there's a glut of oil right
now. So the situation has changed. I'm not as concerned about it because we're people, and one
thing we can always count on is change and uncertainty.
So that's all. I don't have anything to add or no real comments other than my blathering just now.
Thank you for all the work you put into these numbers and the time that you take to prepare and
inform us for how we get to guide this agency through always uncertain waters. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker. The last time several directors, because they
are leaving rank here, are getting to see you. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Gentlemen, thank you for the presentation. I
haven't been on the Board that long, but I've certainly enjoyed the last two years' worth and look
forward to many more. Appreciate the assistance. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. It's always one of the benefits of serving on the
RTD Board that we get to see these kind of presentations and learn this information. I want to
point out as somebody who works with older adults and who is an older adult that I think that we
are going to see some changes that have not been reflected. Reverse service is a new thing now.
So places that people used to ride to, those places are now coming to them, as in dispatch health,
for example, which now comes to your house with a nurse and an EMT, and Access-A-Ride,
who is delivering groceries and medical supplies to people.
So I think that it's very, very hard to see where we're going to go when we come out the other
side of this. But we certainly won't go back to where we were. And I think that older adults are
changing as fast as anybody else. So I just wanted to point that out. Thank you, gentlemen, for
the presentation and the information. And thank you, Madam Chair, for letting me talk.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Williams. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Rich, I want to thank you and your
team for the forecast. I really appreciate it. Very, very brief comments is realizing how fluid the
forecast is and how COVID's going to impact that in the future. And then really how the
millennial group will impact it as well. I just read something that there's a great number of
millennials that are leaving the Denver metropolitan area as well. And so I just think this is going
to be an interesting component to keep our finger on. And I have to agree with my colleagues
about really taking a look at a more conservative forecast as we move forward so that we can
make sure that we are doing our due diligence for the community. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: No, thank you. And for my part, I have some questions, but there's only one
that I think-- Heather-- that I would direct you. The others I think I can talk with Heather later.
But the forecasts, is the ending number a function of the update that we get? We get forecasts
early in the year, and then we get an update later in the year. I'm thinking of last year when you
came through, and the number you predicted in the later forecast ended up being pretty close to
where we eventually ended. So is it a combination of those two, the graph that you show on
packet page 76, your report number 37? Or is it one particular of those forecasts?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, that's a complicated question. When we submit our forecasts-- and
as you see, we submit these alternative scenarios-- and we present those to Heather and her staff,
and we often have a conversation about that. And ultimately, some sort of joint decision is
arrived at as to which of these scenarios to go forward with. And I think that's a fair summary of
how the process works.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So here's a question for you based upon your experience with other
clients. We've been looking back at some of the reports that have been done. The 2011 Fiscal

Sustainability Task Force recommended a practice for our forecasts that was sort of like going
with a conservative-- use traditional methods, go with a conservative number, and then back off
half of a standard deviation for the purposes of your budgeting. So staff took a look at that, and
we ultimately decided not to.
My question is, in your experience or understanding what other clients do, are there alternative
ways of actually using the numbers and the forecasts that you give us that you've seen that we
should check out as we're going through a new renewal here for the contract? I just wondered if
you could point us to any resources where we could get a handle on alternative means of using
the forecast.
For my part, it would be to avoid the lurching, the adjustment, the major cut we had to take
during the midyear last year and for smoothing our budgeted numbers out. So any thoughts you
have on that? Or any experience you have otherwise?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah, I was hoping other members of the team would step forward. But I
guess in this environment, we have certainly noticed that our clients have tended to prefer the
more conservative forecast, the more pessimistic one. And personally, I think that makes a lot of
sense in such an uncertain environment.
But as a general principle, I guess as has been pointed out by several of us, in normal times, our
medium forecast seems to be the right one to use. We're high just as often as we're low and by
about the same amount, and the overall forecast error is quite small. But these are not normal
times. And I can see that it's very difficult to readjust your budget downwards. It's easier to make
adjustments back upwards, not that that's totally easy either. So that's the insight that I have so
far.
SHELLEY COOK: So do most of your clients use the number and work directly from that? Or
do they like hedge from it a little bit? Or is there a different manner of using the forecast that
you've noticed?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Well, this is Rich. Brian could do a better job with this. But the answer's a
lot of the entities have a top-down sort of approach that they've used. And we're doing the
econometric piece, and they compare what they come up with from-- and I don't want to call it
gut because it's not gut. It's looking at historical relationships and so on, but it's not being driven
with a more complex econometric model.
And I think your staff has something similar in that regard. They kind of know what the
relationships are, and they kind of present those. And we see that with a lot of the revenue staffs.
They're very familiar with the patterns. But this level of disruption didn't-- no one's used to this
level of disruption. So I think that's where the problem comes in.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it. OK, thank you so much, gentlemen. I really appreciate all the
information and the access that we've had to it.

RICH WOBBEKIND: And although Esquire Tisdale is a friend, going on to Robert's comment
for just a moment, I think the reason that the forecast entities that we're working with-- and there
are a number of them now-- are leaning towards the low end as opposed to median forecast is
that when you look at consensus forecasts or anything else of larger number of economists,
they're putting a higher probability on downside risk right now in the macro economy, much
higher, like 65% to 75% downside risk weighting.
So that could be caused by the lack of stimulus or bad timing. That could be caused by political
uncertainty, all the things we've been trying to talk about. But I think the number one thing it's
really focused on is not having control over the virus. And do we see a second and third wave,
depending on what part of the country you're in-- here, we're in the third wave-- that seriously
paralyzes the economy?
So I think that's why people are really leaning towards the pessimistic forecast. And, again,
knowing that it's not easy when you have to announce furloughs or cutbacks and all of those
things, I'm very sympathetic and actually living some of it personally. It's easier to go up than it
is to do further cutbacks down the line. At least most entities think that way.
SHELLEY COOK: That's a really helpful point of emphasis. Thank you so much.
RICH WOBBEKIND: You're welcome.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right, Heather McKillop-- and really focusing on the time here.
We've got a review of the 2021 fiscal policy and the requested budget. Can you combine those?
OK, and then perhaps we could leave for information and financial status report since we're
accustomed to that. We had a pretty good preview last week. So go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So real quickly on the fiscal policy statement, this is done right before
we are going to discuss the 2021 budget on purpose, and that's because these policies drive the
budget. We have been modifying these policies in theory over the summer as we've met with the
Board on numerous occasions through study sessions and other meetings to go over it.
So what is contained in this document really are changes that relate to using now the Asset
Management Plan to determine capital replacement projects to give the Board some leeway
regarding the Mid-Term Financial Plan since we're not going to adopt a formal Mid-Term
Financial Plan that's six years, which is called for in the policy. We're only doing two. This says
you don't have to adopt one every year but maybe every two years.
Again, then one of the largest changes on the very last page, where we've added for 2021 the
COVID response policies. We've had numerous discussions about the guidance for reductions
that spend basically the framework that we've used for reductions. We started talking to you two
study sessions ago about guidance for restoration, which kind of mirrors back the guidance for
reduction. So that's now included in the fiscal policy. That could change next year when you go
to adopt it again if we're out of the COVID era. But for right now, we thought that was good to
put in this document.

So I did want to-- when we get to the overall questions, we'd be glad to take questions or
suggestions on changes. If you want to send me your suggestions or changes, if you could do that
prior to October 28 because we have to prepare the final documents for review and entering into
Minute Track by the 30th of the month. So that's what I would offer up there.
Regarding the budget, I just wanted to point out a few things based on-- the information in this
budget is just in a different format. It's in the budget format versus the format we've been
showing you over the last few months from a cash flow perspective and also through PowerPoint
presentations. But it is basically the same information we presented last week on the 13th.
I did want to point out a few things based on the conversation that was just had. and that is, one,
for 2020, the current year we're in, not the new year but the current year, we did go with the low
forecast from their most recent forecast. That's how we got the fund balances that we're
anticipating being able to roll over, et cetera.
In this particular budget for 2021, remember what we did was we went with the mid forecast, the
medium, or otherwise known as their baseline. But in order to kind of hedge our bet, we filled up
the reserves, the three months of operating reserves for both Base and FasTracks in 2021, hoping
to give us any-- address leeways, things that may happen over the next few months.
And then we discussed at last week's meeting reviewing after the first quarter not necessarily the
amended budget timely, which is halfway through the year, but the first quarter, see how we're
doing, and then make adjustments accordingly if we need to. So we're still sticking by that
recommendation that we use the mid forecast, but we fill up the three months of reserves in both
Base and FasTracks. And then we adopt the rest of the recommendations as presented.
We did I hear you last week that there was some interest in looking at if there was any way we
can retain a few more employees as well as address some service and cleaning issues. I'm going
to ask Bruce real quickly to address what we've identified since last week and that if there's
positive feedback, we will be incorporating that into the final budget for adoption on November
10 and November 17. So, Bruce, if you're there, could you address that real quickly?
BRUCE ABEL: I'm here, Heather. Can y'all hear me?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, we can.
BRUCE ABEL: OK, great. Thank you. This is Bruce Abel. As Heather indicated, we did hear
you last week. And as a result of using the mid-range forecast and a bit more optimism than
previous conversations regarding the 2021 budget, we have been looking at making some
judicious adjustments to the staffing to try to retain as much staff as we can, reasonably and
comfortably do that.
So especially in light of the conversation regarding service and cleaning, we did go back through
the staffing adjustments that were previously discussed with the Board. And we are now in a
position that we feel that we can retain-- and in normal circumstance, we might only retain

service and cleaning associated with the level of service on the street, which, as you all know, is
reduced due to the lack of demand.
But we have put back in additional service in cleaning staff to the point where I do not believe
there will need to be any layoffs in service and cleaning staff because we will be able to use that
staff in a productive manner to do the additional COVID cleaning above and beyond that which
might be required just for the level of service being provided.
Additionally, we have discussed restoration of mechanics. And I believe we are in a position
where we will not need to actually lay off any mechanics, which is a change from a couple of
weeks ago when we had the conversation, as we will be able, it appears, to keep all of the current
headcount in the maintenance force.
Please understand that these numbers are changing daily. But one of the things that is happening
right now as people are self-selecting and leaving for whatever their rationales may be, some of
the position reductions in force as someone leaves voluntarily become a vacancy. And so we're
making progress in terms of reducing the numbers of current employees that may be needed to
be laid off. We're attempting to be, again, judicious. But we are attempting to respond to the
comments that the Board shared with us last week. That's it, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. And then, Madam Chair, I had one last thing. I believe late this
afternoon we sent out a response to Director Menten's question was last week on the cash flow,
what make up the reduction in more detailed categories. And so if you haven't gotten that already
this afternoon or this evening, you should get that sometime tomorrow that will show you where
those reductions are in more detail than what we presented in the cash flow.
We would welcome any comments tonight. But please feel free to call me or Jannette or Bruce
between now and as soon as possible because we are trying to finalize the information in the next
week or so so we can get it ready for you to approve in the Finance Committee on November 10
and at the Board meeting on November 17. So with that, Madam Chair, I'll turn it back to you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, what I'd request of the Board is that we not go around with questions
and comments. And instead, if you would, please get those to the staff. I think it would be
helpful to copy us. So they can factor this in and respond by the 28th. That would be to both the
fiscal policies and for the budget itself. Does anybody object to that?
NATALIE MENTEN: I sure would like-- this is Menten.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: I sure would like to just very quickly cover three points so I don't have to
go to a one-on-one conversation. Is that OK?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, yeah, please. Go.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I went through these. So please, Heather, here we go. Under revenue
policies, item number seven, it says on an annual basis, staff will identify under or unutilized
property and equipment and will make ongoing attempt to monetize this property. Since I have
been on the Board, and I am not the only one, we would-- there are some of us would really like
to get a property lesson. And I'm really speaking to larger parcels, not a 10 feet by 500 feet small
little sliver, but something beyond that 20 properties roughly that's on the underutilized list.
And so I would like to see number seven amended because this is a 2021 fiscal policy statement.
And since we're closing out the projects right now and that's where some of this money is
coming from, there also would be an inventory list of the properties for 2021 that would be
presented to the Board.
The next item is under page two of this document, expenditure policies, which it talks to RTD
will continue to look for the most cost effective reliable methods of delivering transportation
services. As we look at the issues with RTD, the cap in Colorado revised statutes should be
addressed in the future because we have found that contractors can provide service in some
cases, probably in many cases, at least for the bus, my understanding, for less money, meaning it
is more cost effective. And so that would be my preference to be shifting some of that service to
the most cost effective way possible.
Same way, paragraph number six. RTD will develop service changes using the system-wide and
route-specific productivity measures that have been approved by the Board. I will look at
FlexRide where we have a policy somewhere that states there should be three boardings
minimum. And for years and years, we have had FlexRide routes that have not performed at that
level. So we are not even following our policy there.
And, again, going to a cost effective method, let's go back to the transit voucher discussion,
where if we're handing somebody a $7 voucher and that replaces a subsidized route of $30 or
something purporting, we should be following our own policy there with those productivity
measures. And so that, Madam Chair, is the three items I wanted to bring up Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And, again, folks, if you have questions, I think it's helpful
to the rest of us to see them, whether they were brought forward verbally or, better yet, we could
see them in writing. So, again, by the 28th. Anybody else with that burning desire to get
something right there on the record?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, go ahead, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: It does bother me a little bit that we're maintaining maintenance people on the
payroll, which means we're going to let a bunch of drivers go. And last year, it was drivers that
we had such a hard time getting. And, of course, once you get the drivers, you have to put a lot
of money into training them to become certified drivers. And I doubt if you have to spend that
much training on maintenance people if you need to add them in the future. So I don't know if
I'm totally onboard with that other idea. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. And just would add some of us have noted the advertising on
our home page for mechanics at a new age. So to the extent you respond, if you wouldn't mind
just adding in information about that, too, for what we're doing there. Anybody else?
OK, so we had an information update, the LiVe Program update. And if you have questions, if
you would, please bring those forward to the staff. And would ask if there are any other matters.
OK, our next meeting date is November 10, 2020. And I'll go ahead and adjourn, noting that
we'll take a quick break.
And Director Lewis or Chair Lewis, would you suggest 8:45? That's about six minutes from
now. Well, we'll do that. OK, so I'll adjourn the FA&A meeting, and we'll take a five minute
break here and resume operations in the customer service at 8:45 Thank you all.

