Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, January 15, 2019
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Ken Mihalik

A. Call to Order
Chair Mihalik called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Bob Broom
Director, District F

Status
Present

Arrived
6:00 PM

Vince Buzek
Peggy Catlin
Shelley Cook

Director, District J
Director, District N
Director, District L

Present
Remote
Present

6:01 PM

Claudia Folska
Lynn Guissinger

Director, District E
Director, Distrct O

Present
Present

5:57 PM
6:13 PM

Shontel Lewis

Director, District B

Present

6:00 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:02 PM

Natalie Menten
Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

6:01 PM
6:00 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Doug Tisdale

Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present

6:01 PM
5:57 PM

Jeff Walker
Troy Whitmore

Director, District D
Director, District K

Present
Present

6:01 PM
5:59 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Absent

6:00 PM

Director Catlin attended the meeting via phone. Director Williams was absent.
Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Nicole Carey, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Chuck
Culig, Joey Davidson, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Lisa Dorrance,
Steve Eubanks, Michael Ford, Dave Genova, Bob Grado, Paul
Hamilton, Janet Huhn, Brian Iocano, Tina Jaquez, Dave Jensen, Jeff
Kay, Jillian Knapp-Rhodes, Israel Lauter, Michelle Lawrence, Doug
MacLeod, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike
Meader, Allen Miller, Brian Mueller, Patty Schmidt-Reed, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Jason Roozemond, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Cal
Shankster, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Monika Treipl-Harnke,
Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Paul Von
Fay, Susan Wood, Fred Worthen, David Zimmerman

Others Present:

William Gross, Travis Johnson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Contract Amendment Authority for MCCi (Laserfiche Value Added Reseller)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his Designee to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to amend Contract No.
17DO02, MCCi Laserfiche VAR Services and Support, to increase the
contract amount from a current total of $499,850 by $890,000 to a new
total not-to-exceed amount of $1,389,850 (subject to further Board action
by budget authorization for budget years 2020 through 2022), in order to
support RTD’s operations, maintenance and project development based on
Laserfiche software through 2022.
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 29, 2019
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 0]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Folska, Lewis, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Rivera-Malpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore
Kate Williams
Lynn Guissinger

Committee Chair Mihalik declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• NMRL Financial Analysis
To have a competent, independent third-party company perform a complete
financial analysis to evaluate and compare the RTD and Denver Transit
Partners proposals for the start-up and first ten years of dispatch,
operations, and maintenance for the North Metro Rail Line. (NMRL)
The Board of Directors hereby directs the General Manager to commission a
competent, suitable and independent agency to perform a complete financial
analysis in an amount not to exceed $50,000.
Subsequent to the complete analysis, a decision will be made by the
appropriate RTD committee to move an action forward to the Board of
Directors who shall vote on which entity shall dispatch, operate, and
perform maintenance on the North Metro Rail (NMRL).
The December 2018 action to acquire four additional properties for a North
Metro Rail Line Maintenance Facility, which will require displacing several
businesses, shall be suspended until the Board of Directors review and affirm
those property acquisitions under state eminent domain law.
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
BACKGROUND
Over the course of the last 16 months the board has received presentations
about the NMRL budgets while staff sought feedback on who shall dispatch,
operate, and maintain this portion of the commuter rail line network. The
choices presented by staff included operating the North Line internally or
subcontracting it out to Denver Transit Partners (DTP) under the partner
Denver Transit Operators (DTO) as an extension to the Eagle P3 concession
agreement.
The RTD Board of Directors, though asked for informal head-nods, never
formally voted on the single-subject of who should run the North Metro Rail
Line. Instead, the action was inferred to be accepted by our very recent
approval of the 2019 budget.
In January 2019, it was discovered and came to the attention of the RTD
Board of Directors that Denver Transit Partners submitted a proposal in April
2018 which implies substantial savings if Denver Transit Partners dispatch,
operate, and maintain the North Metro Rail Line. One major difference
between RTD’s and DTP’s operational plans is employee headcount. Denver
Transit Partners proposal notes they would need 71 employees to operate
the North Metro Rail Line while RTD’s budget includes 121 employees to
operate the North Metro Rail Line. Some of the employee positions, if the

line is operated by RTD, appear to be redundant as DTP already operates the
A, B, and G Line once opened.
More questions have arisen that make it difficult to compare cost-benefit,
applicable Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) regulations related to
dispatch operations at Denver Union Station, and a like-to-like analysis.
Furthermore, in December 2018, the RTD Board of Directors authorized
acquiring four properties, presently occupied by several businesses, to
provide for a North Metro Rail Line maintenance facility which is only needed
if RTD were to self-perform operation and maintenance of the North Metro
Rail Line. As it is unclear what cost this potentially adds to the North Metro
Rail Line self-perform option and these property acquisitions would displace
several businesses, the property acquisitions under state eminent domain
law shall be suspended until this action to self-perform operation and
maintenance of the North Metro Rail Line is affirmed by the current Board of
Directors.
It is in the best interest of constituents, stakeholders, and the Regional
Transportation District to hire a competent firm to perform a complete
financial analysis to ensure that funding is spent in the most efficient
manner possible while delivering the best service for our riders.
Additional background documentation will be presented to the board and
added to this packet once public release is approved.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The complete financial analysis shall cost no more than $50,000.
Experienced professionals have estimated this analysis may require 80 hours
and top-level compensation is estimated at $300 per hour
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 29, 2019
Board Meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

FAILED IN COMMITTEE [4 TO 10]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Claudia Folska, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Ken Mihalik
Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Guissinger, Lewis, RiveraMalpiede, Tisdale, Walker, Whitmore
Kate Williams

Committee Chair Mihalik declared the motion FAILED.

C. Updates

• November 2018 Monthly Financial Status Report
Presented by Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, and Doug MacLeod, Controller.

• Smart Card and Mobile Ticketing Update
Presented by Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, and Tonya Anderson, Manager of
Electronic Fare Operations.

• 2019 Fare Change Update
Presented by Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 12, 2019
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Mihalik adjourned the meeting at 9:12 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

