Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 20, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 20, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 20,
2007 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Chair Chris Martinez; Director Lee Kemp, Treasurer;
Director Brohl, Secretary; Director Quinlan, Second
Vice-Chair, Directors Chacon, Elfenbein, McMullen and
Kinton
Director Yamrick (via telephone)
Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue
Jeff Lieb, L.W. Morrow
Chair Chris Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:02 p.m.

March Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella reviewed the following items listed under Unanimous
Consent. All of these items had passed through committee so there was
little discussion.
 Unanimous Consent
 Acquisition of Property – Denver Federal Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to negotiate and execute an Agreement for Purchase and Sale
between the City of Lakewood, Colorado, as Seller, and the Regional
Transportation District, as Purchaser to acquire approximately 15.48
acres of vacant land located in the southwestern portion of the
Denver Federal Center in Jefferson County, Colorado for
$5,361,229.00 plus reasonable costs of a title policy and closing. It
is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents that may be necessary to acquire construction and
operations easements for a light rail line form the General Services
Administration in exchange for in kind contribution by RTD for
development of the light rail line including items such as security
fencing, retaining walls, and landscaping; to negotiate and execute
documents to cooperatively design, develop and construct
improvements at this location and adjacent parcels to be acquired by

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 20, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6
Catholic Health Initiatives (St. Anthony Hospitals) or its designee, and
to negotiate and execute planning and zoning documents with the
City and others which may include but are not limited to annexation
agreements and an Official Development Plans for the Federal Center
property other permanent and temporary construction easements,
grading and drainage easements, utility easements, and vehicular and
pedestrian and licenses.
 Approval of FasTracks Noise Barrier Change Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors approve the FasTracks Noise Barrier
Change Policy to provide a procedure for affected parties to request
changes to a proposed noise barrier design on a FasTracks project.


Park Meadows/Northfield Shuttles – Cost Sharing Agreements

It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to enter into Cost Sharing Agreements with the Rouse-Park
Meadows, LLC and Stapleton North Town, LLC to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the Park Meadows shuttle and
Stapleton/Northfield shuttle as detailed below and to transfer funds
form the General Managers Unallocated Capital Budget line item to
fund these services. These Agreements are for calendar year 2007
and are for a combined amount not to exceed $161,000.
 Implementation of Express Day Pass
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing
Committee that the Board of Director’s authorize the implementation
of an Express Day Pass in the amount of $7.75 per day as part of
RTD’s fare media program.


Award
Contract
to
provide
and
install
DigitalVideoRecordingSystem in Mall Shuttles Buses.

Mobile

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to award a contract to Transit Marketing Group, a Boulder,
Colorado company representing GE Security Inc, the low cost, most
responsive, responsible and qualified proposer for the purchase of a
mobile digital video recording system (security camera) to be installed
in the Mall shuttle buses. The system is comprised of seven cameras
that record event into a hard drive. The system is capable of
transmitting video data on demand wirelessly to a computer server at
Platte operating division and at Civic Center Station. The total cost
for the project is $390,868.78. The funding for this contract is
provided by a grant from the US Department of Homeland Security.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 20, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6


Resolution No.___, Series of 2007 related to the refinancing of
RTD Certificates of Participation, Series 2001B
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached
Resolution Number ___ (the “Resolution”), related to the refinancing
of RTD Certificates of Participation, Series 2001B and authorize the
General Manager to transfer $1,375,787 to the 2007A debt service
line items within the District’s 2007 Budget ($1,333,154 of this
transfer coming from the 2001B COP debt service line items (as
those COPs will be defeased through this transaction) and an
additional $42,633 from the ADA cutaway vehicles project line item.)
Funding for the ADA cutaway vehicles project will be restored in the
District’s 2007 Amended Budget.


Resolution No.___, Series of 2007 related to the refinancing of
RTD Certificates of Participation, Series 2002A
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached
Resolution Number ___ (the “Resolution”), related to the refinancing
of RTD Certificates of Participation, Series 2002A and authorize the
General Manager to transfer $379,870 from the ADA cutaway
vehicle project to the interest expense line item associated with these
COPs in the District’s 2007 budget. Funding for the ADA vehicles
project will be restored in the District’s 2007 Amended Budget.


Option Year Three for Maintenance of Flatirons park-n
Ride:Carnation Building Services (CBS)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the board of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the
Third Option Year of Performance with Carnation Building Service,
Inc. (CBS) for the provision of maintenance and grounds upkeep at
the Flatirons park-n-Ride under Purchase Order No: 47207DR.



Recommended Action
West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals and Contract
Amendment for the Design and Costing of These Value
Engineering Items

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to proceed
with the list of value engineering items (with the exception of the
Sheridan Light Rail Bridge proposal) and to execute all documents
necessary to award contract amendments to the Front Range
Systems Consultant (FRSC) and David Evans and Associates (DEA) in
an amount not to exceed $9,000,000 to design and cost the Board
accepted Value Engineering (VE) Items associated with the West
Corridor. It is also recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board remove the issue with the Sheridan
Boulevard Light Rail Bridge from the VE list and set a deadline of April

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 20, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
10, 2007 for positive movement from the entities. If no positive
movement has occurred at this point, the Board will move to accept
the Sheridan VE. Funding for this amendment is available in the
FasTracks budget for the West Corridor.

Discussion:
Cal Marsella shared information from his
meeting with Mayor
Hickenlooper that included the discussion on the options for the
Sheridan light rail bridge. The city will be reviewing the proposed
option which could possibly have the city to pay for a flyover bridge.
Cal indicated that the current proposal would have both Sheridan and
the rail at grade. Director Brohl and McMullen expressed surprise as
this was not their understanding. Director Brohl shared concerns of
functionality for this specific site.
Director McMullen requested if there is somewhere we can publish
information so the public can see what was promised and what is
being delivered. We need better communications which gives a side
x side comparison.
Director McMullen also requested a better understanding of DBOM
and putting DBOM on the agenda so everyone can be on the same
page.
Jeff Lieb, Rocky Mountain News, challenged the statement made by
Cal that both Sheridan and the light rail would be at grade. Jeff
provided Cal with a copy of the design which corrected this
information.


Recommendation for Change in RTD Advertising Policy (from
Executive Session)
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors modify its advertising
policy by the addition of the following:
The RTD will not display advertising copy promoting the sale
and/or use of unrated video games or video games rated M or
AO.
A preliminary copy of the Board report was electronically sent to the
Board on 3/16/07. Director Brohl indicated the need for further
discussion with the attorney citing attorney-client privileges prior to
the vote on this issue in the Board meeting. This item will be added
for a special Executive Session during the meeting on 3/27/07 so that
it can be voted upon later in the agenda.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 20, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
II.

Modification to Board Travel and Business Policy
Chair Martinez indicated that the purpose of this modification was to
provide clarity to the recently approved Board policy on travel and local
expenses.
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors approve this modification to the Changes to the Local and
Travel Policies previously approved on November 14, 2006 to change the
language in paragraph 2 so it will more closely reflect the intent of the
new travel policy.
Motion:
Director Christopher made the
motion
to
approve
the
modification to the Board Local
and Travel policy.
Second:
Director Brohl seconded the
motion
Vote on the
Motion:

Motion passed with 4 ayes,
(Martinez,
Brohl,
Quinlan,
Christopher) and 1 nay (Kemp)

III.

Technology Committee Status Report
Director Quinlan provided a status update on the Technology Committee.
He indicated there will be additional changes to the Local and Travel
Policy from this Committee and that a demonstration of integrated voice
and data teleconferencing capabilities will be done at the next meeting,
3/29/07. They will also provide recommendations on outfitting a home
office. These Technology meetings will be audio conferences.

IV.

Credit Card Capability at all RTD Distribution Points
Director Quinlan cited the need for kiosks with credit card capabilities for
purchasing of passes at the RTD light rail stations.

V.

Champions of Transit Status Report
Director Quinlan shared that all recipients had been presented their award
with the exception of Transit Alliance. Confirmation of attendance has
been received from each of these recipients for the March 27th Board
meeting.
Director Martinez indicated the need to revisit the process used for
granting and receiving of the awards by the end of the summer.

VI.

Other Matters
Director Brohl raised the issue of parking for the Board of Directors,
sharing her continued struggle with others parking in her space and
recommending that there should be spaces available for all Board

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 20, 2007 12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6

VII.

members. Cal Marsella indicated that this issue was looked at but
rejected due to the fact that other RTD employees from other sites need
spaces to park when they are taking care of business at the Blake
address. He also indicated that on the days of the Board meetings, they
have placed signs in the parking lots advising others not to park in this
space.
Vote to move to Executive Session
Motion:
Director Kemp made the motion to
move into an executive session to
discuss
Contract
NegotiationGeneral
Manager’s
Contract
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)
Second:
Director Christopher seconded the
motion
Vote on the
Motion:

Motion passed with 5 ayes

The meeting moved into Executive Session at 1:10 p.m.
VIII.

Executive Session
Contract Negotiation-General Manager’s Contract C.R.S 24-6402(4)(e)

IX.
Adjourn
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 2:10 p.m.

