Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 23, 2010
at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 23, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 23
2010 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:
Board Member
Absent:

Vice-Chair Martinez; Directors Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Daly,
James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley and Christopher

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary Googins, Bill Holmes,
George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Caitlin Magee,
Tony McCaulay, Robert Merriman, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff,
Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, John
Shonsey, Errol Stevens, John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Mark
Tieman, Phil Washington, Linda Wells, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Andrew Shoa (Hanson Communications), Ed Bush (CRMCA),
Pete Comps (LTK Engineering), Sharon Terranova (DRCOG),
Steve Rudy (DRCOG), Roger Johnson (Advanced IT Solutions),
Celina Benavidez (Celina Inc), Sandy Weinberg (ACS), Xavier
De Fremme (ACS), Christopher Jarrett (ACS), John Gobis
(ACS), Marc Gordon (ACS), Larry Johnson (IBI Group)

***
Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the Study Session meeting to
order at 6:00 p.m.

I. Smart Card Demo
General Manager Phil Washington teed this off by making reference to a FAQ
that had been prepared by staff addressing questions on the Smart Card
Technology and the reason for the selection. He indicated that in this memo
he had also recommended to defer the purchase of the fare boxes. He then
turned the presentation over to Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, who
introduced Pete Comps, LTK Engineering consultant.
Pete provided background on the requirements components for the Smart Card

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 23, 2010
at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 3
technology, noting the emphasis on the primary objective to produce accurate
ridership and usage data for annual pass programs such as Eco Pass. He also
reviewed other long term objectives. Pete talked about the requirements to
support fare policies, contactless fare media, maintain bus/light rail
commonality, increase average transaction speed, improve operator and
passenger ergonomics, comprehensive rollout and customer support services
and long-term software support services. He also talked about the
procurement strategy to de-couple the farebox from the Smart Card
technology.
For a copy of the presentation please refer to the Study Session minutes
located in the Board office.
Sandy Weinberg with ACS performed a demonstration of the Smart Card
Technology. Afterwards, the Board members were very impressed with the
system and shared their questions and feedback through a round robin
process. Some of the key concerns expressed by Board members focused on
issues of privacy, handling of transfers, incentives for changing cash
customers to Smart Cards, customer education and ability to handle credit
card purchases. Director Tayer requested a timeline and budget implications
of credit card purchases. Director Martinez expressed his concerns over
customer service and asked staff to consider the process for converting
current ECOPass holders who do not tap on to the Smart Card system where
they will need to tap on. He wanted to know what process RTD will use to
provide the customer a seamless customer service experience.
Director Martinez expressed a general procurement concern about how do we
handle the 10% points given in a bid for key personnel who later may leave
the project. He wants a way to tie this financial obligation to the pay back
part of the fulfillment process.
II.

DRCOG SB 208 Overview
Steve Rudy, Denver Regional Council of Governments, explained what SB90208 is and the process for performing their annual review of FasTracks. He
emphasized that the role of DRCOG is to review. They do not have fiduciary
responsibility.
Afterwards, Sharon Terranova with DRCOG did a brief review of the 2010
schedule for the DRCOG review on FasTracks. A copy of the schedule and
the presentation is available with these minutes in the Study Session Minutes
notebook located in the Board Office.

III.

Candidate Project List for Transportation Economic Recovery Project Bill
Terry Howerter, CFO, introduced this item and turned it over to Susan Cohen
who shared the criteria used in developing this list. Two lists were presented
for Board review. The first list of approximately $123M was for projects that
could meet the early implementation timeline. The second list was for projects
that could be under contract in less than a year.
This amounted to
approximately $1.2B.
The current status or amount of this bill is unknown

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 23, 2010
at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 3
but it is expected to be for a much smaller dollar amount than anticipated.
RTD’s position is to be ready and to look for any potential sources of revenue.
IV.

Parking Management
Chair Pro Tem Martinez requested that we table this discussion until the next
study session or Operations meeting when this could be the first item on the
agenda.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez recognized Director Brohl who expressed her
disappointment over tabling this item. She stated emphatically she has a lot of
questions and concerns that were not answered by the handout in the packet.
She wanted to see what are the criteria to re-classify from a parking
management to a non-parking management site. What causes a site to be
managed versus non-managed. other than the % of out-of district patrons,
what was the reason Pine Junction is still on this list? She has continuously
expressed a concern over the outlying districts where they have few options
should RTD public service becomes unavailable.

V.

Other Matters
After a technicality discussion raised by Director O’Boyle about going into an
executive session from a study session, Rolf Asphaug, legal counsel clarified
that where there are matters required to be kept confidential by state law,
and the full Board present had signed a statement of confidentiality, they
could proceed with a discussion on such matters.
The Board then entered into a confidential discussion related to
CRS 24-6-402(4)(c): Matters required to be kept confidential by state law:
CRS 2-3-103(2) and 2-3-103.7(1).

VI.

Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 9:10 p.m.

