1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, June 18, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:10 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:03 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:10 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Away

7:05 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:04 PM
7:08 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:03 PM
7:03 PM
7:10 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:05 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:04 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:04 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

7:10 PM
7:03 PM

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of 2013 Amended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 to amend
and appropriate funds for the proposed 2013 Amended Budget, to increase
the appropriation by $13.302 million to $1,584.563 million as detailed
below in the overview of the 2013 Amended Budget, and to decrease the
appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds) by
$247.879 million to $1,003.434 million due to primarily planned
expenditures.
1) The 2013 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the
Amended Budget column below (in thousands), which is a summary of
relevant data from Exhibit I.

2) The 2013 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and nonoperating revenue which are estimated, not appropriated, below (in
thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from Exhibit I.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the June 25, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Solano seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter began by apologizing for any confusion caused
by the updated Board Report that was sent out on Monday.
He explained that staff did find an error in their calculations
that they wanted to repair. Terry Howerter stated that it is a
fairly small amendment this year. He said that staff would be
happy to get together with any Board members that would like
to meet separately to discuss the Amended Budget. There are
a lot of numbers and Jannette Scarpino will just hit on the
highlights.
Jannette Scarpino explained that the 2013 Adopted Budget
was approved in November of 2012. She said that about midyear staff amends the budget to account for changes that they
are aware of. She stated that in August staff will start to
work on the 2014 Budget.
Jannette Scarpino stated that the gross change is an increase
in the appropriation of $13.302 million which is historically a
small amount. She also explained that the revenue is not
appropriated but estimated.
Jannette Scarpino noted that the true increase to operating
expenses is less than 1% net of previously approved transfers,
the FISA contribution, and one-time expenses. She stated
that in FasTracks Projects the operating expenses are up about
4% largely due to one-time expense projects; in FasTracks

Operations (West Line) costs are down $2.3 million due to our
cost allocation methodology. She referred the Board to the
summary in the Board Report and Attachment A for further
details.
Jannette Scarpino said that we expect a decrease of $15.7
million in new capital that is detailed in Attachment B. She
stated that we are seeing a decrease of $20.7 million in
FasTracks new capital that is mainly from the Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility and project management and
administration. In Base we are seeing an increase of $5.0
million that is mainly from our funding of the SmartCards.
Jannette Scarpino explained that capital carryforward are
projects that were not completed in previous years and are
carried forward to the following year. The carryforward
balance has been updated to reflect December 31, 2012
actuals. The capital carryforward will decrease $247.9
million. She stated that this is detailed in Attachment C.
Jannette Scarpino shared that Sales and Use Tax revenues are
projected to decrease $8.8 million based on the CU-Leeds
School of Business June forecast of 3.7% versus 4.2% in the
Adopted Budget. She stated that this is up from the last
forecast of 2.5% but still down from the Adopted Budget.
She explained that this is offset by an increase in grant
revenue of $22.8 million. She said that fare revenue is
expected to be flat with no change over the Adopted Budget.
Jannette Scarpino stated that staff is forecasting an
Unrestricted Year-End Fund Balance to decrease $7.8 million
to $23 million largely due to year-end accruals. She said that
the amount of $23 million is actually flat to our actual amount
of 2012 which is not a bad position to be in. She also said
that staff will continue to build the Board Appropriated and
Capital Replacement funds.
Director Bagley noted that the FasTracks Construction Reserve
was considerably reduced from the original Board Packet that
was sent on Friday. Terry Howerter explained that the two
changes that were made on Monday were related to a
reduction of about $57 million in the FasTracks Capital and
FasTracks New Capital. He believes that is the reduction that
Director Bagley noted.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• 2014-2019 Strategic Budget Plan Update
Terry Howerter stated that staff has brought the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
to the Board for review several times. He said there is good news in this
updated. Jannette Scarpino reiterated that this was just a review of the SBP
and not a request for adoption.
Jannette Scarpino reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that
can be found in the June 18, 2013 Operations and Customer Service
Agenda Packet. She said that since the presentation of the first draft we
have received an update from CU-Leeds for the Sales and Use Tax
projections. The SBP has been revised to reflect 3.7% growth versus 2.5%.
Janette Scarpino explained that CU is attributing the increase to a strong
growth in personal income and employment growth exceeding the national
average. She reviewed the reduced, eliminated and deferred projects with
the Board that helped balance the SBP. She explained that the initial project
requests totaled over $500 million but this has been reduced to around
$369 million. Janette Scarpino stated that the concern is that projects may
become more critical the longer they are postponed; the hope is that if sales
tax improves or we have an excess fund balance at year-end we can bring
some of the deferred projects back. She said that the SBP continues to
contribute to the Board Appropriated and Capital Replacement funds at the
rate of $3 million to each fund each year. She highlighted that the bottom
line is now positive over the six year period. Jannette Scarpino said that as
she said in the beginning this in just an update. The final SBP will be
brought to the Board for approval in July. She shared that between now
and then staff will continue to refine their assumptions.
Terry Howerter asked Jannette Scarpino to expand on the expense project
and capital projects that went into the $369 million in the SBP. She
explained that expense projects are projects that are expensed through the
income statement. These are usually repair and maintenance type projects.

She stated that capital projects are projects that are usually $5,000 or
greater in amount. An asset is created on the balance sheet for capital
projects. Terry Howerter stated that out of $500 million in requests staff
brought in $369 million to the SBP.
Director Folska noted that Jannette Scarpino mentioned there was $3.8
million being paid in bonuses. She asked for clarification on this item.
Janette Scarpino said that in the amended budget there is $3.8 million in
bonuses recorded as part of the collective bargaining agreement. General
Manager Washington explained that this was part of the 5-year contract that
was negotiated with the ATU. These bonuses were approved by the Board
when the contract was approved. He said that the term bonus might throw
people off. It is really a one-time payment.
Director Folska asked if CU-Leeds was factoring in the increase in sales tax
revenue from the sales tax parity that passed. Jannette Scarpino stated that
they would be taking that into account starting January 1, 2014 when the
parity takes effect.
Director Bagley commented that what staff does in relation to RTD’s
amended budget, adopted budget and the SBP is one of the most important
things that the Board has to review. He said that it is very intricate as the
Board has seen. Director Bagley noted that the Board cannot necessarily
follow every little aspect of what staff is talking about so he suggested that
if anyone wants greater clarification they should meet with Terry Howerter
and his staff. He said the conversations he has had with staff have been
very purposeful conversations. Director Bagley thanked staff for what they
do for the agency.
Director Bagley also commented how the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force is
a component of what happens to the budget. He mentioned in the General
Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that it would
be great if in the fall RTD could revisit with those partners to discuss the
positive things RTD has done, where RTD is today, and what steps RTD
needs to take in the future.
Director Daly asked for clarification on what the FT Service Increase was on
page 10 of the Power Point presentation. Jannette Scarpino explained that
was the rubber tire service.
Director James thanked Director Bagley for bringing up the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force. He said that he met with Terry Howerter just this
week to talk about it. Terry Howerter stated that staff will give the Board
an update as to where we are with the Task Force’s recommendations
shortly.

• First Quarter 2013 Performance Measures
Terry Howerter stated that the report is available in the June 18, 3013
Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. Jannette
Scarpino highlighted that on-time performance has improved in all categories
for all carriers. She believes the focus on runboards and problem routes has
really been having a positive effect.
Director Lubow asked for further information on Goal 6.2, District ridership
goal. She understands that we did not meet our goal due to Leap Year but
she noted some was due to local routes declining. She asked staff to
elaborate. Terry Howerter said that Doug MacLeod would touch on it more
in the Monthly Status Report but the decrease is fairly small.

• April 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod noted that the dashboard shows red again for the month and
year-to-date ridership numbers. He said that the good news is that looking
at the month of April we were down 0.5% whereas for March we had been
down 4.5%; year-to-date we are down 2.7%. Doug MacLeod explained
that about 0.7% can be attributed to Leap Year but that still leaves a 2%
decrease. He said that light rail is the biggest driver of the decrease. He
shared that the APTA article related to a decrease in ridership nationally
mentioned that in the first quarter of 2012 there was a big spike in the cost
of gas. This year the cost has normalized so we have seen ridership
decrease as more people are driving again.
Doug MacLeod highlighted that we had a good month for fare revenue. We
are up 6.5% for the month and 2.2% year-to-date. He explained that the
biggest driver of this increase is our pass revenue as this is about 60% of
our fare revenue. He stated that there has been an increase in Eco and
College Passes. Doug MacLeod also explained that there has been a shift in
the passes many of our federal employees have been purchasing. These
employees have been switching to the Flex Passes and in doing so we have
seen an increase in fare revenue.
Doug MacLeod stated that we did not have a good month for Sales and Use
Tax. This is the first month that we have been negative versus last year but
overall we are up 1.2% for the year.
Director Folska asked for an explanation of the difference between the
EcoPass and FlexPass. Doug MacLeod explained that EcoPasses are
purchased by the employer and FlexPasses are paid for by employees
through payroll deductions. He said one of the reasons the federal agencies

are moving toward FlexPasses is because they want to be able to offer an
entire benefits package to their employees. Doug MacLeod stated that we
also have monthly passes and annual passes. Bruce Abel explained that the
annual pass program is essentially buying 11 monthly passes and getting the
12th free. He stated that the Eco and Flex pass programs are business-tobusiness programs while the annual and monthly passes are business-toindividual.
Director Menten asked which federal agencies had moved to the FlexPasses.
Doug stated that it is the IRS, TSA and Federal Center Employees.
Director Bagley noted a correction that needed to be made on ridership
section of the report that should read 2013 Actual versus Budget instead of
2012. Staff stated they would make the correction. Director Bagley
believes it is very important to understand what our actual is right now
versus what our budget is. It is nice to look back but it is also very
important to look at where we are right now. He pointed out that fare
revenue versus budget is up considerably and Sales and Use Tax is down.
He thinks there are some reasons that we may not fully understand like
sequestration, Social Security, gas prices, etc. Director Bagley believes it
may be worthwhile for CU-Leeds to come back to share with the Board more
about what goes into their predictions than just the numbers. General
Manager Washington said that staff would set that up.
Director James said that he is excited to see the study that General Manager
Washington discussed in the Operations and Customer Service Committee
Meeting (June 18, 2013). He said that in thinking about this study the word
simplification came to mind. Director James noted that a committee was
formed regarding RTD’s pass programs. He believes it is dormant now but
not gone. Director James thinks it would be worthwhile for the committee
to be revived to review the Smart Card program. General Manager
Washington stated that one of the main objectives and reasons to move to
Smart Cards is to track utilization so that we can right price our fares. This
data will be collected over 6 to 12 months so we can see what the right
prices, especially for the EcoPasses, should be. He believes that the Task
Force will provide a much more comprehensive look at Smart Cards than just
the data we are collecting so it will be more suited for the review than the
Pass Committee.
Director Sisk noted that there are some intrinsic factors that go into
ridership, one of which is gas prices. He stated that with gas prices
stabilizing we lose some riders but what we may lose in fare revenue we
also gain back in what we are saving on fuel.

Director Folska asked if staff conducts a means test of people who buy
passes. She noted that it seems some people are not getting the same
benefits of individuals who are employed. If you are an individual and want
to buy a pass you are going to pay more. Bruce Abel explained that we
work with social service agencies to do the testing. He stated that RTD
does not want to be involved in means testing. Bruce Abel said that the
discount fare pass programs offered through the social service agencies are
going to offer the deepest discount.
Director Hoy said that if ridership decreases by 2-3% that does not mean
our fuel costs will decrease by 2-3%. An MCI bus traveling with 49 people
versus 50 uses the same amount of fuel.
Committee Chair Walker shared that he has been thinking about the many
Baby Boomers. Many of that generation are starting to retire, work part
time, etc. and that could be having an effect on ridership.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley stated that in the last General Manager’s report there was a
discussion of the Southeast Corridor Station Improvements that were done by the
Southeast TMA involved with the Denver South Economic Development Council.
He highlighted that it was important to note that the money for this project was not
RTD money; this money was from a grant that TMA got from CDOT. He said that
everyone wants greater weather protection but if you want it, you have to step-up
to pay for it. This is a great example of a community contributing to the
betterment of RTD facilities in their District.
Director Bagley shared that he and a number of staff went to a Stationary Master
Plan Meeting in Highlands Ranch about the Southwest Extension final station. He
through the meeting went well; he made some comments that were well received.
Director Bagley said that there were five Directors (Bagley, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk and
Anderson) that attended the Northwest Area Mobility Study discussion. He said it
was very interesting to attend and listen to the comments that were made.
Director Bagley also stated that RTD has a heck of a lot going on and he thinks we
are doing a great job.
Director Lasater feels that being asked to vote on the I-225 Rail Alignment that was
presented at the June 11, 2013 FasTracks Committee Meeting is not the way the
Board should operate. He knows in municipal government they never operated that
way. He stated that research takes time on all people’s part, especially for Board
members, and not every Board member has the luxury of being retired and free time
all the time. Director Lasater also stated that the University of Colorado (CU) or the
Fitzsimons Redevelopment Authority (FRA) does not have time to address concerns
about having a concrete transportation plan in place prior to the Board Meeting of
June 25, 2013. He believes the builder should be talented enough to do what two

railroads did a century and a half ago and that was build across the country and
meet successfully in Wyoming. Director Lasater stated that failure to plan does not
necessitate haste on the part of the Board. He thinks the Board is being rushed
into a decision. Director Lasater encouraged the Board to vote no on the I-225 Rail
Alignment when the Board does not have all the facts. He believes there are too
many things left up in the air and does not think that is the way the Board should
be acting in the fiduciary capacity that the Board has been elected to do.
General Manager Washington announced that RTD has hired a new manager of
internal audit. She is due to start July 1st and staff will introduce her to the Board
sometime in early July.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 09,2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:12 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

