Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
REMOTE MEETING
September 29, 2020 at 5:30 PM
855-962-1128

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
None

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Cook
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Catlin

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 18, 2020 and Special Board Meeting
Minutes of August 25, 2020

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent

A.

Approval of Rescue Vehicle Contract Amendment

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or the designee, to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with Wiese Rail Service for the North Metro corridor
rescue vehicle modifications to increase the contract not-to-exceed amount by
$178,658.39, for a total not-to-exceed contract amount of $1,036,093.39. Funding for
this contract amendment is included in the 2020 Adopted budget for the North Metro
Corridor Mobilization project.
This action addresses 2020 Strategic Priority Goal #4 – Increase Ridership, Improve Rider
Experience.
B.

Approval of 2021 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan (PTASP)

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2021 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan (PTASP) as required
by 49 CFR Part 674 State Safety Oversight Regulations.
The recommended action proposed supports the following GM Goals:
Task Goal #1 Enhance Safety and Security
C.

Use of People First Language in RTD Communications

It is recommended by Directors Folska, Lubow, and Menten that the Board of Directors
approve Resolution No. _____, Series of 2020.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager Goals:
Core Goal #2 – Strong and Ethical Leadership.
D.

Approval of New Auditing Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to Plante Moran, LLP to perform RTD’s independent audit and financial
procedures services. The contract is awarded for these services for calendar years 2020,
2021, and 2022 in the amount of $338,811. There is an option to extend the contract
for two additional one-year periods, at RTD’s discretion, in the amount of $242,749.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Strengthen Transparent Public Communication/Collaboration
E.
Approval of Budget for Homeland Security Grant for Bus Audio/Video Live
Connection Award
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve receipt of the Bus Audio/Video Live
Connection project award in the amount of $2,416,000 with no matching requirement.

The award is from FEMA/Homeland Security under the Transit Security Grant Program.
Receipt of this award requires establishing the project budget in Oracle and an increase to
budgeted 2020 revenue of same amount.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Mission-Oriented Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Strategic Priority #5 – Strengthen Safety and Security
F.

DTP Private Activity Bond Refinancing Consent

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to consent to the
proposed refinancing subject to the conditions described below.
GM Goals
• Mission- Oriented Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
• Strategic Goal #6: Move Toward Stable Financial Situation
G.

Approval of Board Expense Reductions for 2021

It is recommended by the Executive Committee of the RTD Board of Directors that the Board
approve a motion to adopt the attached Resolution No. ______, Series of 2020, concerning
a Reduction of Directors Expense Budget Lines in Fiscal Year 2021 to Offset Revenue
Shortfalls Due to COVID-19 Impacts
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2020 Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management.

XII.

Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of personnel
matters regarding General Manager and Chief Executive Officer candidate Debra A.
Johnson; § 24-6-402(4)(e)(I), C.R.S., for determining positions relative to matters that are
subject to negotiations and instructing negotiators regarding new General Manager and
Chief Executive Officer contract; and § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S., to receive legal advice
regarding the same.

XIII.

Recommended Action
H.

Appointment of CEO/GM and Approval of Contract

Approval of Chief Executive Officer and General Manager Employment Agreement with
Debra A. Johnson
The General Manager Executive Search/Oversight & Performance Management Committee
(Committee) presents to the Board a motion to adopt the attached Resolution No. _____,

Series of 2020, thereby approving the terms of the Executive Employment Agreement
with Debra A. Johnson.

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

