RTD Board Meeting
09-29-2020
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everybody. I would like to call the Tuesday,
September 29, RTD Board meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain/Daylight
time. I would respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and set your
ringers to silent.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded.
The audio recordings along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. You can find that at www.rtd-denver.com. And scroll to the
bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the public participation portion
of tonight's agenda, please press star 3 now. You would be placed into the queue. And I will call
on you at the appropriate time.
Directors and members of the staff-- for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you please announce your name and
wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings. Please note that
at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on in the evening, I will
call on each Director in turn. So please note that your time to speak will come. And if possible,
please hold your comments until that time.
Miss McManus, if you don't mind, we're going to not do the Pledge of Allegiance due to not being
in the same room. So Miss McManus, could you do roll call, please?
BARBARA McMANUS: Yes, chair. Thank you.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Cooke.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Folska. Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, I'm here. Sorry, I was a little slow to the phone.
BARBARA McMANUS: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA McMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA McMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA McMANUS: 13 present-- 2 absent, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you ma'am at RTD, safety's our core value. And I'd like to
begin this meeting with a short safety briefing.

Please frequently and thoroughly wash your hands, continue to practice physical distancing-- six
feet is the minimum-- minimize time spent in poorly ventilated indoor public areas, especially
when large numbers of people are present, and wear a mask at all times in public spaces, such as
in an office, grocery store, and while using public transportation.
I'll mention again if anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the public
participation of tonight's agenda, please press star 3 now. You'll be placed into a queue. And I will
call on you in the appropriate time.
This evening, there are no retiree awards. And so we will go straight to our public participation,
which is open to anyone who wants to speak. As is our custom, we will allow any of our elected
officials present to speak first so they can get back to their own meetings and attend to business.
If you've indicated that you would like to speak to the Board by dialing star 3 on the phone, I will
call your name in the order in which you signed up. Each speaker is allowed three minutes. And
please, bear in mind that by participating in this process, you will be audio recorded. So if you do
not wish to be audio recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. And you
will not have the opportunity to speak this evening.
If any speaker has any documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email those
materials to the Board Office at the following email address-- board.office@rtd-denver.com.
The public participation period is not the appropriate venue for back and forth discussion amongst
speakers and the Board. Please do not anticipate that the Board will respond to questions and
comments at this time. For this reason, it is important that you state your name and address so
someone may follow up with you at a later time.
For anyone just joining the call, if you would like to speak to the Board, please press star 3 on your
phone now. And you will be placed into the queue when it's your turn to speak. And I will call you
by your name. And our first speaker is Councilwoman Joan Peck.
COUNCIL WOMAN JOAN PECK: Thank you, hopefully, you can hear me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
COUNCIL WOMAN JOAN PECK: Thank you, good evening, Mr. Ballard and the RTD Board.
I'm Longmont City Council Person Joan Peck. And I'm here to talk to you about the FISA account.
This is the time of year for budget discussions on all governmental levels. The FasTracks internal
savings account should be kept intact or at the very least, the discussion as to its future purpose
put on hold until the new executive Director have taken her place as the head of RTD. Her
experience in budgeting and staffing is why she was hired. So let her do her job.
As you're aware, Longmont and the Mayor's and Commissioners Coalition along with other
transportation organizations and the Governor have sent you letters of acceptance for the
Northwest Peak Service Commuter Rail plan through FasTracks.

This is a compromised and workable interim plan that will move this Board and staff away from
the constant and wrong message that the Northwest Rail Corridor will cost $1.4 billion. Even
BNSF knows that's incorrect. And they're ready to give us an engineering study. But RTD is
holding that study up. But I digress.
We need the funds in FISA to pay for that engineering study. We need the funds in FISA for local
matches for grants and federal dollars through DRCOG. Is it even legal to take those funds for
CIPs that aren't FasTracks.
It has been my understanding that the base cannot use FasTracks' dollars. But FasTracks can use
base funds. I know that some of you are going to used the pandemic as a reason to rob FISA. But
that argument really rings hollow to me.
Even in flush years, you have pushed the Northwest Corridor conversation and taken money from
FISA. Of course, you need operating dollars. But have you considered the bond that is being paid
off in 2020? Where are those dollars being used? Borrowing money is cheap now as it always is
during a recession and a depression. Can you re-bond at a lower interest rate?
We need the rails for all the reasons you want it in your districts. Denying this rail is not equity in
the district. Denying the rail is not fulfilling the promise to reduce our carbon footprint. Keeping
the position that the Northwest Rail Peak Service will cost $1 billion is disingenuous on your part.
We don't know the cost. Because RTD won't commit to the engineering study.
Rail has been proven to add significant economic value to the region. Our bus service is inadequate
and always changing. That's one of the reasons I am a fierce opponent for-- not opponent-advocate for our rail service.
Because our LD routes have been cut, it takes over an hour and 50 minutes to get to union station
from Longmont. That is unacceptable. Thank you for your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next, we have Molly McKinley.
MOLLY McKINLEY: Hi there. Good evening, Board members. And thanks for holding space for
a public comment. My name's Molly McKinley. And I serve as the Vise Chairperson of the Denver
Street Partnership. And I'm here speaking on behalf of them this evening.
As you might recall, we sent a letter to the Board about a month ago in regards to bus operator
safety. And the process in which shields are being installed on buses right now. From what we can
tell, the process is still under way. And we continue to urge you to reinstate fair suspension and
rear door Boarding on buses until these protective shields are installed on all buses.
Transit operators are the very backbone of connecting our essential workers to their jobs. And their
safety must be prioritized right now. Because mass compliance is less than 100%, this shield serves
as a backstop to protect bus operators from being exposed to COVID-19 from an unmasked rider.

Until that backstop is in place, bus operators are at risk of being exposed to the virus or a conflict
with a passenger who refuses to wear a mask even when offered one or being informed that it's a
requirement to ride. Transit operators are our frontline staff who are already in a really vulnerable
position. And they shouldn't be forced to choose between enforcing a mask requirement or
potentially being exposed to COVID-19 from an unmarked passenger.
We stand with the RTD operators and urge you to consider these policies that will keep operators
and passengers safe during this difficult time. Thank you for your consideration.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next is Chris Applegate.
CHRIS APPLEGATE: Hi, Board. Thanks-- am I on now? I think.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, yes you are.
CHRIS APPLEGATE: Great, thanks. I'm in district C, a frequent rider of the number 9 bus in the
W-line during the weekdays. I'm just asking, I know there's a lot of talk about the austerity
measures and so forth. I really want to stress about preserving service.
My bus route is already down to going-- the number 9 bus is already down to once an hour instead
of twice an hour. Ridership has increased based on what I've been seeing and had normally higher,
I think, due to mainly because of the cut of the services.
So I want to be mindful about not cutting additional services during this pandemic. Because a lot
of the Sunny Side and retirees also ride that bus while I ride it for work. And they need access to
the downtown grocery store, and so forth for their services.
And that gets me to the point of avoiding layoffs for drivers as much as possible. I know you've
talked about administrative layoffs and furloughing. And I think that is a more appropriate look at
the main offices there, especially around managers.
My company itself has laid off 20% of their workers. So I know the pain that has already and the
extra work. And I'm still at work currently and joining this meeting.
So try to avoid layoffs of our particularly are our drivers across the system. And I got fair-checked
last week. And I am really intrigued by this knowing that we're in a pandemic. People need to get
around. Also for the need of social distancing where I try to maintain that on the bus and the train.
And the train is where I got fair-checked. And I'd really like to-- I know there's been talk about
with the budget cuts. I think one area for budget cuts could definitely be how we could have more
community resource liaisons instead of security forces on there. And I know that's been a
discussion of the Board.
And hopefully, you all would continue to look into that as cost-saving measures as we go down
this road. And hopefully, the CARES Act, HEROES Act-- I'm sorry the HEROES Act gets passed

at some point so we can get some of that federal dollars to us. That's all I have. Thank you very
much for your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next, we have Monique Jackson. And let me just
say, again, if you'd like to talk to the RTD Board of Directors, please press star 3 now. Go ahead,
Monique. You're on.
MONIQUE JACKSON: Hello, hello.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, hello, Monique.
MONIQUE JACKSON: Hi, yes, I am a driver out of the Platte division. And the reason for my
statement is, A, for our safety, not basically being able to enforce the mask rule. Although I do
enforce it on my bus for my safety and for those of the passengers they do wear their masks.
It's not fair that we're not able to enforce it. We don't want to be able to take anything home to our
families. We have families at the end of the day. We should be able to enforce it. So I'm not sure
what you guys need to do on your end to make the public more aware that it is important-- that it
is required to wear a mask when they're on the bus and you keep it at all times.
And then as far as layoffs go, if you lay off your drivers, your mechanics, your service and
cleaning, who do you have to operate your buses? Who gets the public moving? Who gets the
people to where they need to go? You have nobody. Thank you, that's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, we have one last caller. Swoosh, are you
on?
We'll give it one more second.
OK, anyone else who's interested in talking to the Board, please press star 3 now. OK, with no
other callers in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this time.
BOB BROOM: Director, there is one more person.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, there is one more person. Oh, Jenea. Jenea Covington-Davis,
you're on.
JENEA COVINGTON-DAVIS: Thank you, Madam CHAIR MASTER. I just want to thank the
Board for those who have been champions for change and for those who have been truly committed
to transparency. For the rest of you, December can't come fast enough.
I also wanted to say thank you to Mr. Ford for visiting us in the lion's den at the different divisions.
I don't know if that's demonstrative of his willingness to bridge the gap between Blake Street and
represented employees, or if he just sucks at rock, paper, scissors. I don't know. But either way it's
appreciated.

I also want to address the decision that you guys are going to make on behalf of the represented
employees as far as layoffs are concerned. I want you to be mindful of all that they have given
during this pandemic even prior to with mandatory overtime and time away from their family-- a
depreciation in their way of life.
And I hope you keep that in mind when you're deciding on how many or who to lay off. Because
it is going to be a life-changing event for a lot of people from what it sounds like. And I truly
believe that the best thing that can come out of this is that you as a Board is dismantled and that
the governor will allow the city council to appoint a Board that truly has the best interests of the
district as a whole. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, with no other callers in the queue, we're going to
close the public participation at this time.
This evening the committee meetings were included in your Board packet and are there for any
corrections from Directors. Does any Director have any corrections from the committee minutes?
OK, hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will become part of the
permanent record. The next agenda item is the GM Executive Search and GM Oversight
Performance Management Update.
I'm going to move that agenda item to the bottom of the agenda for this evening. And I would like
to go ahead and move to the approval of the Board meeting minutes of-- [AUDIO OUT] if
everybody could please mute your phones.
So if I could have a motion to approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting of July 21,
2020 and the special Board meeting minutes of August 7th, 2020. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do I have a second?
JUDY LUBOW: Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I have Director Lubow. Unless there is any discussion, I'm
going to proceed with the voice vote. Are there any no votes on the approval?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Director Catlin. My agenda has minutes of August 18 and minutes of
August 25.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mm-hmm.

PEGGY CATLIN: Do I have a different-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have the 21st and this August 7th. Miss McManus?
BARBARA McMANUS: I have the 18th and 25th as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Wow. Miss McManus, if I-BARBARA McMANUS: We should just go ahead and approve the second set of minutes that's
on the agenda.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Which one? The 21st and the 7th or the 18th and 25th?
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know. I have the 18th of the 25th.
NIKKI CAREY: It did-- [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, who is this?
NIKKI CAREY: It's Nikki.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, go ahead, Nikki.
NIKKI CAREY: This is Nicole-- Nikki. I carry, so we are approving the Board meeting minutes
from last Board meeting and the special Board meeting minutes from last month's Board meeting
in this. This is correct.
What you are approving for other minutes are committee meeting minutes that would have taken
place in September. We're always approving the meeting minutes-- Board meeting minutes from
the meeting the month before.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, so I am approving the Board meeting of the 21st and the
special Board of August 7th. Yes, no?
NIKKI CAREY: That is correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
NIKKI CAREY: Last Board meeting in July or in August, we approved July's Board meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, so-NIKKI CAREY: During the committee reports, we'll discuss the committee meeting minutes if
there are updates or changes, which we've already walked through. And those are from September.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So we are having a motion to approve the minutes from the regular
Board meeting of July 21, 2020 and the special Board meeting-NIKKI CAREY: No, August 18 and August 25.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Lewis, that's what you have on your packet, correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think you're-- Director Lewis or Director Catlin?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, both of you. But I'll start with you.
PEGGY CATLIN: The 18th and the 25th?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, and Director Catlin, that's what you have on your packet as
well?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, that's the packet that we're going on today.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I apologize. I must have the wrong script on this piece of it.
Either way, may I have a motion to approve the minutes from the Board meeting and the special
Board meeting on August 18 and August 25?
KATE WILLIAMS: So approved-- Director Williams-- so moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, let me go back. Who moved?
KATE WILLIAMS: Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, second.
JUDY LUBOW: Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Lubow. I got Williams is the movant, and Lubow is the
second. Unless there is any discussion, we're going to proceed with a voice vote. Are there any no
votes for the approval of the Board meetings?
SHELLEY COOK: I have a quick question-- Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: So I just scrolling back through the minutes. And I'm not finding those dates.
Have we seen the meeting minutes of August 18 and 25 to have been able to go through them

myself. I wouldn't count on people to have done that. But I didn't see them just glancing through
here again.
JUDY LUBOW: They're there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, then I'll leave it to that. Thank you, OK, thank you. So let me
go back and say, are there any no-votes on the minutes of the Board for August 18 and 25?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nancy?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Lynn. I just want to say I'm here now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you Director Guissinger. All right, we have you down.
OK, I am not hearing any comments. So 3/none, the motion is adopted to approve the Board
minutes from August 18 and August 25.
Oh, OK, next is the Chair's report. And you know what? I'm going to keep my comments very
brief tonight. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is suffice to say that there's been
a lot of fluctuation in the revenue forecasts from our partners at the CU Leeds School of Business.
The agency has recently received their September forecast. And there have been some very
interesting developments since our last report. The economist from Leeds will be presenting an
update to the Board during the Finance Administration and Audit Committee scheduled for
Tuesday, October 20. So please stay tuned for that.
With that, I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Ballard for the General Managers report-- Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, thank you, Madam Chair. And good evening, Board members. The
highlight of the month had just passed, of course, was the start up of the North line on last Monday- hard to believe that with just eight days ago.
But I want to thank everyone who was a participant-- everyone who has been involved from the
beginning getting this line going. It was tremendously successful. For those of you who were there,
you noted that we had the 65 permitted people under the pandemic guidelines.
What's particularly impressive is that, as you know, we were streaming live. And we had 1,700
people watch that streaming live. And then since the event, we've had 400 more people go back
and watch it on our website. So that was very, very successful. And I appreciate everyone who
participated in the event and getting us to this point.
I've observed some of the ridership at Union Station. And we have a lot of people last week who
were out trying it. So that's going to be a very successful service, particularly once we get through
the coronavirus.

So another note on commuter rail is, we had a bit of a hiccup yesterday morning. Our four
commuter rail lines were not in service until 6:00 AM. The train management dispatch system,
which is operated and maintained by our concessionaire, Eagle Partnership and its sub-entities,
started having problems overnight that was requiring system restarts.
Web tech, who provided the system was notified and responded. It was decided, ultimately to
conduct a transfer over to another server.
So at approximately 5:45 AM, the system came back online. And the first train started arriving at
Denver Union Station shortly before 6:00 AM.
There've been a number of meetings between, as you would imagine, between RTD, DTO, and
Webtech, we're working together to determine what the cause was so that we can prevent future
occurrences. We'll be conducting a thorough review of all the elements related to this issue and
will develop appropriate action plans.
The three-hour disruption had its greatest effect on the A-line going to the airport. Because it has
a 3:15 departure. And then it goes to 15-minute schedules at 3:45 AM. So we dropped
approximately the first nine round trips.
The N-line was the least effective line. It lost about three trips at the start of the day. So I wanted
to brief you on that.
Everything was getting back into service by 6:00-- around 7:00 o'clock. Yesterday morning, things
were pretty much back on schedule. But we'll continue to pursue what the cause of that software
failure was-- that our concessionaire was operated.
A couple of other items I participated in-- the candidate forum on August 24, which I found quite
interesting-- this was arranged by the Board Office. They did a great job in putting together a lot
of information. I thought it was particularly helpful.
Angie did an excellent presentation. I contributed a few thoughts. I enjoyed meeting the candidates
as well as visiting with some of you who were also on the call.
Accessibility Committee-- I know there's probably going to be a report later on this evening on
where we are on that. But I want to let the Board members know that we are receiving a lot of
requests for information. We are responding quickly. They have three subcommittees now. We're
providing information to them as well.
And that process, from our perspective, is working well. And I want to close on this one point, and
that is to comment on our new CEO and General Manager. I want to commend the Board for
selecting Deborah Johnson as your new Chief Executive Officer and General Manager.
Having been a participant throughout the process, she has impressed me from day one. She is going
to be a superb CEO/General Manager. And I can't wait for her to get started.

I think, hopefully, we'll be hearing from her shortly. But I just want to commend the Board for an
excellent choice. She will do a fantastic job. So with that, Madam Chair. I will turn it back to you.
And thank you for my time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, we have someone on the line with the last numbers of
3, 5, 6, 8. Could you please identify yourself?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, that's you? OK, thank you, Secretary Buzek. All right, are
there any questions for Mr. Ballard?
All right, hearing none. We're going now to our unanimous consent. Pardon? OK, there are quite
a few items on our unanimous consent agenda this evening. Under item Roman numeral 11, as
action A through G, we have approval of Rescue Vehicle contract amendment, the approval of the
2021 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, they used a People First language in RTD
communications approval of new auditing contrast approval of the budget for Homeland Security
grant for bus audio/video live connection award, and DTP Private Activity Bond Refinancing
Consent, and approval of the Board Expense Reductions for 2021.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. Do I have a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second-- Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Was it you, Director Buzek?
NIKKI CAREY: No, Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Oh, it's Whitmore. Thank you. All right, if anyone has
to change or questions to any of these items, please feel free to let the Chair know. And of course,
we'll be happy to pull them from the unanimous consent under the recommended actions.
We do have a movement in a second. Is there any discussion? OK, hearing none, they are approved.
Thank you. We do have one recommended action this evening.
We have reached the final milestone in our process for appointing the new General Manager and
CEO. I want to take this opportunity to thank the Board's General Managers Executive Search
Committee-- the First Vise Chair, Peggy Catlin, who served as the Chair of the Committee and
Treasurer/Director, Lynn Guissinger, who served as the Vise Chair of the committee and Director
Lynn Guissinger-- Lynn Guissinger, Gregg Moser, with our Executive Search firm, Krauthamer

and Associates, and our Interim CEO, Paul Ballard, and our Board staff, Barbara McManus and
John McKay, our General Counsel, Melanie Snyder, and the whole Board of Directors, who have
remained engaged in this process.
We've all worked diligently to conduct a very thorough, thoughtful, transparent, and inclusive
process reflective of our core values. We've asked for and took very seriously the public and
stakeholders feedback we received. And we have shared information about our process and
anticipated timeline at every step of this journey.
We are so very proud to have selected Deborah A. Johnson as our new General Manager and CEO,
the first woman to lead RTD in its 51-year history. Miss Johnson comes to us with 25 years of
diversified experience having worked in progressively responsible positions, leading and
managing various operations, administrative, and business processes and programs at some of the
largest transit agencies in the country.
Per the terms of the contract, the Board will be considering tonight that Miss Johnson will report
to the Board of Directors through the Board's Chair. The annual base salary is $315,000 with costof-living adjustments and potential incentive awards and increases tied to performance goals and
metrics.
The agreement is for a five-year term and will continue after that period from year-to-year unless
either party provides six months advance notice. Miss Johnson is subject to all RTD policies and
procedures applicable to all other salaried RTD employees unless otherwise in the agreement-stated in the agreement.
I would like to, at this time, ask the First Vise Chair Catlin to have the honor of moving this motion
forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I concur with your shame for all the people that
participated in this process. And in fact, just in this last month alone, we have conducted seven
meetings. So it's been quite a bit of work for not only the committee members but for other Board
members who have participated as well.
I'd like to read the recommended action, which is the General Manager Executive Search Oversight
and Performance Management Committee-- current committee present to the Board a motion to
adopt the attack resolution series of 2020 thereby approving the terms of the Executive
Employment Agreement with Debra A. Johnson.
And I would like to take this moment and take the honor of making the motion to approve this
contract.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, so moved. So moved. Do we have a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I second that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Who is this?

LYNN GUISSINGER: I said it. It's Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [LAUGHS] Thank you, OK, the movement is First Vise Chair
Catlin. And the second is Treasurer Guissinger, who both serve as Chair and Vise Chair of the
committee.
Is there any discussion to this motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
BOAS NIKKI CAREY: Go ahead, Menten, I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, no, I'll let-- if there was-- Director Lewis spoke. I would actually prefer
to go to --at the end of the comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate it I wanted to say something for public
record. If I've gotten a few folks reach out to me. And I would like to address my constituency.
So for the first time in the agency's history, we'll be hiring not only the first woman but also the
first Black woman to lead our agency. While I'm excited about this opportunity, I have been torn
during salary negotiations as we are operating the agency with less service to a rider-- significantly
less ridership, and having really real-- and having real conversations about budget cuts and
reduction. Prior to my election, I committed to each of you-SPEAKER 2: Paska left too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, go ahead, Director Lewis. I'm Sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, it's OK. Prior to my election-- I'm sorry, I committed to each of you to
transparency and equity no matter the decision before me. And I remain committed to that value
of equity and fairness.
And that commitment to fairness, I desire to take a balanced approach to contract negotiations. I
consider the current state of our agency including the impact of COVID staff morale, looming
layoffs, decreasing ridership, decrease in service, and a deep consideration of the salaries of the
men that previously came before-- Deborah, in this case including our current General Manager
I recognize not only public perception but also the concerns presented by staff. We must remain
committed to the principle of equity and fairness no matter how tough the decision. And I cannot
with good conscience vote not to support the current contract without first explaining my reasoning
to each of you.

With the salary that is being offered, reduction in service, oh, excuse me. I'm sorry, so we had
some discussions. And we talked about longer contract terms and a reduced salary with options to
increase as our budget improves and our riders return.
That was a nonsuccessful pursuit. We also had some discussions to provide a higher salary and to
do so with shorter contract terms-- another unsuccessful pursuit. Nonetheless, I want to be clear
that my vote to approve is not because I do not see the concerns raised by the public.
But I cannot, in good conscience, request that the first woman to lead our agency be compensated
less than the men that have preceded her. She is incredibly qualified. And I'm confident that she
will lead this agency into success. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten. I'm sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow. I have a comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I want to say, personally that I am supporting this. I'm very
excited to be welcoming Deborah Johnson to Lead RTD. I have expressed that I am not thrilled
with a five-year contract. I think it's a very long contract.
But, nonetheless I will vote to approve this appointment. Because I think it's so good. That's it for
me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, I heard someone else. Was that you, Director
Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, it was. I'd like to thank Director Lewis for her beautifully written
statement that expresses the sentiments of all of the Board. We've discussed all of the points that
Director Lewis commented on multiple times in our meetings.
And I'm sure that all of the Board members have the same sentiment. So I appreciate her making
that public.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Are there any other Board members besides
Director Menten? Hearing none, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, so I have been very vocal about my concerns about the contract
along with the process. And I think even leading up to today, we were unwilling to put out the
major contract terms until just minutes here before we're voting.
So I'm very glad-- very glad that I was able to share with the public, especially leading into what
we've got going on with budget service reductions-- all of these things. They share with the public
what we were doing.

I just wish the Board majority had been willing to take that step and have the confidence if they
felt they were doing the right thing to have shared it with the public. But even leading up to today,
it came to my attention that the major terms in the contract itself was denied under public
inspection.
So it's hard to say that we really had a transparent project when all we were really telling people is
we're going to take this step and take this step. But the detail, there was none present. And this is
the second time that I've gone through this on Board. The last time was in 2016 when we hired
Dave Genova.
And it's unfortunate that twice in my seven years, I've had to go through the discomfort, the
concerns, especially with an agency and the Board of Directors when we chose our top goal for
2020 was going to be transparency and communication.
With that, I hope that going into the future, the Board will change-- the Board will change the
policy. I know I was not alone. And I'm going to speak to Director Lewis here.
The way this works for the public who's listening. We have our General Manager Executive Search
Committee. And we did have what's called a head nod or an informal vote where we talked about
whether we would release the details.
And the vote turned out to be six against releasing information and two for releasing information.
And the two wanting the information released were myself and Director Lewis. So I thank her for
that.
But I again, hope moving into the future that this isn't even a concern. Because at the end of the
day, through all those, what like, seven meetings that we've had? I mean, thought back to my notes.
And we really had these terms laid out September 9th.
So there's no reason, and there's no excuse, in my opinion to state that we were still in negotiations
when we had already laid out 315, 5 years, 32 days of vacation time, pension at 9% contribution,
and that's on top of the 315 and it may go down to 7%.
This all adds up to a healthy chunk of taxpayer money. So I'm going to note one other thing and
that is, I've talked about a comparable. And for me, a good comparable is Colorado Department of
Transportation.
When you're comparing salaries, the head of CDOT both transportation fields and both within
Colorado cost-of-living, there's a lot of apples to apples in that to me. And just two days ago or
actually, one day ago I got the most recently gotten salaries.
Just so that I knew I had the numbers right. And what we have is $315,000. And I'm not even
talking about the benefits. On top of it, the base $315,000. I'm not talking about the open window
on performance pay-outs, bonuses, whatever you may want to call them. Just the $315 base is just
under 80% more than the head of Colorado of Department of Transportation.

And there's no way I can vote for this. I've talked about excessive salaries at RTD. Made a motion
a week ago to reduce the top executive level and on down to $60,000 and above, those salaries
would have been reduced.
In the past, if we talked about whether it's male or female, I have stood solid on this for a long
time. I made a motion to reduce Dave Genova's salary down to $172,000 and was only joined by
a couple other Board Directors.
To me it's about their position. And what percentage of Colorado is it serving? And again, the
salary is just under 80% more than the top head person at CDOT. I find that shocking. So I would
say I'm going to be a no-vote.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you for speaking. Yes, thank you Director
Menten. I would just like to state for the record that we had originally had an executive session
placed on the agenda. But due to the fact that after the negotiations and during our negotiations at
our last meeting, there was absolutely no changes to the proposed contract by either Miss Johnson
and her attorney nor any Board member that we didn't feel that there was a need for an executive
session.
So that is the reason for that. So hearing the end of discussion, I will now call-JEFF WALKER: Walker.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, go ahead Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you, I wanted to give my support to the motion before the vote. You
know, I'm reminded of reading Atlas Shrugged. And aside from Joan Galt's soliloquy, I think it's
fair to pay a person what that-- what the market demands for that position. And we're paying for
the experience. We're paying for of the commitment to the agency.
So I'm fully supportive of this. Everything I've heard about Miss Johnson has been exemplary.
And I'm sure she'll do a fine job. I think it's important that the Board members-- that all Board
members and that the public know that we take an oath of office. And the state allows us to conduct
some negotiations and in confidence not to protect only the other party but also the agency and our
constituents.
And the price for breaching that trust can be severe. I hope that hasn't happened in this case.
Because twice, we've shown that this Board can't keep confidence. And that's a shame.
But I'm glad that Miss Johnson is moving forward to join this agency. So at any rate, I wanted it
to voice my support for the contract and those who supported it and also Miss Johnson in moving
forward with this even though there was a breach of trust on our part. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. If I may, I would like to join in on the
comments as well that we have an exceptional candidate here with a great record and an
exceptionally promising [AUDIO OUT] mission through the pandemic and beyond.
And we should all be proud of the great work conducted by the General Manager Executive Search
Committee under the leadership of Chair Catlin and Vise Chair Guissinger and all of the Board
members, many of whom participated in person throughout that entire process to be fully informed
and to fully represent their constituents.
And I am delighted to know that she comes to us by way of an excellent contract that has stood
the test of time and the test of the industry. The test of time is that it is a form of contract that was
carefully crafted two years ago when we amended and restated Mr. Genova's contract.
And the test of the industry is because that contract was then shaped and informed by a standard
form of contract that the American Public Transportation Association proposes for transit agencies
to use for their Chief Executive Officers. I think with that as a legacy, with that as its source, we
have an exceptional contract with an exceptional candidate. And I am delighted to support the
motion. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I am now going-JUDY LUBOW: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Madam Chair, this is Judy Lubow. I felt called to speak for a few more minutes
if you don't mind.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
JUDY LUBOW: If you don't mind, I would like to speak to this motion again.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, I want to say that I support the contract. I feel that the whole process
has been transparent and exhaustive. And we have found ourselves with wonderful candidates.
Our finalists were terrific. And we picked the best of the best. And it costs what it costs. We wanted
the best candidate. And we have to pay for that. And it's going to be worth it for the agency.
Nobody wants to spend a lot of money. But you get what you pay for. And we had to be willing
to spend for a quality candidate. So I'm very proud of being part of this process. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, with that, I'm going to close comments. And we're
going to proceed to the vote. And I will go in alphabetical order. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Deborah Johnson, I know you're listening. Welcome aboard-- Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First Vise Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vise Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska. I'll come back to her. Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think one of the most important things we do is get a great General
Manager/CEO. And I believe we have done that. I'm a yes, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: An enthusiastic and resounding yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: An exuberant yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am an absolute, resounding yes. Is Director Folska on the
line yet? OK, with that-BOAS NIKKI CAREY: Director Folska had a family emergency.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, with that, we have 13 yeses, 1 no, and 1 absent.
Congratulations to Deborah Johnson. So what I'd like to do is, I'm going to turn it over to Director
Catlin to take it from here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to know-- to let everybody know that I'm so
thankful for our vote. And I'm so excited to welcome this dynamic, knowledgeable, and
experienced transit leader who will join us on November 9.
I understand Miss Johnson has called into this meeting. And we'd like to invite her to say a few
words. And I'd like to express my hearty congratulations to her as well, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Miss Johnson, the floor is yours.
GM/CEO DEBORAH JOHNSON: Well, good evening, Madam Chair, members of the Board, and
to all who were on this call this evening. I'm Deborah Johnson, the incoming General Manager
and CEO of the Regional Transportation District. And I want to thank you. Thank you very much
for your affirmative vote on my executive employment contract.
Your actions clearly demonstrate your competence in me to lead this dynamic organization over
the next five years. Please know that I look forward to working collaboratively with all of you as
well as the great men and women who keep the Regional Transportation District moving 365 days
a year, seven days a week, and 24 hours a day as well as me engaging with the communities and
constituencies we serve.
RTD, like other transit agencies and public entities and businesses across this country are faced
with challenges ranging from financial shortfalls to doing business as unusual. I am a fervent
believer that challenges are coupled with opportunities.
As we work cooperatively and collaboratively to identify those opportunities, one key opportunity
rests with me. With that being said, I will stand with the men and women of this organization and
have my salary temporarily adjusted as we navigate the year ahead.
Recognizing that every employee plays an important role in the day-to-day workings of this
dynamic organization, it is evident that it takes teamwork.
All the great people or great achievements are the product of some great collaborations and some
great team efforts. It is often stated if everyone is moving forward together, then success takes care

of itself. In closing, I'd like to think Paul Ballard the Interim General Manager/CEO Gregg Moser
with Krauthamer and Associates who led this recruitment as well as the Board staff, the General
Manager Executive Search Committee, and you all as the Board of Directors as a whole. I look
forward to seeing you all on Monday, November 9. Thank you very much for the opportunity to
provide those short remarks. And I look forward to working for the betterment of the region and
the agency, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much, Deborah. We are so excited to have you
come aboard. And we look forward to seeing you on Monday, November 9.
OK, so if I might, I'd like to go back to the unanimous consent. We had a first and second of
Director Williams and Director Lubow. But I need to have a vote of adopting the unanimous
consent.
So if I might be able to go through the names of folks. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, yes, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, since we're going back, I'll add a little bit of discussion that Director
Menten had taken the opportunity to vet-- the Homeland Security grant that it didn't include any
type of nefarious software like face recognition software. So I mean, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, I believe I was a second or so. I'm not sure we have the
motion in the second or correct. But I'm definitely a yes, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I'm a yes. So that is 14 yeses and one absent. So the
unanimous consent moves forward.
All right, we're just moving along. This is so exciting. What I'd like to do now is old business. In
a minute, I'm going to ask for an update on the proceedings of the Accountability Committee.
But before we get to that update, does any Director have any other old business to discuss?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm going back to a discussion that we had a few weeks ago regarding the
upcoming discussion about pensions. So whether we call this old business, it is, I don't know. But
are we planning on bringing-- I'm going to go with his first name. I think it's Steve-- the legal
counsel on our pension plans-- will he be coming in to speak to the Board as a pension reduction
gets put on the table?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard, I'm not sure. Can you or Miss McKillop address that?
CFO/AGM HEATHER McKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.

CFO/AGM HEATHER McKILLOP: So we do have on the October 20 agenda plan to bring the
pension discussion forward like we do every year. It's for the salaried-- a defined benefit and the
Salary Defined Contribution Plan.
As we normally have, we have the actuarial coming to discuss-- well, she's not coming in person,
sorry. She'll be on the call to discuss the actuarial advice. And then I had previously been asked to
invite the attorney that we have available for that.
And I have not had an opportunity to confirm that with him yet for the October 20-- he would not
be there to discuss the reduction. He'd be there to answer questions regarding what's viable and
legal within the plan documents. So I just wanted to clarify that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, all right, and so the invite is out there or request is out there for this
legal counsel that we currently-- Kay, to come in and if I answer questions. Let's put it that way-about legal challenges-- or not legal challenges. I'm sorry, legal changes if we were to revise the
plan. Is that what I heard?
CFO/AGM HEATHER McKILLOP: Madam Chair, this Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
CFO/AGM HEATHER McKILLOP: Yes, so he will be hopefully, available. I will confirm to
answer questions regarding the plan documents and what can be legally done on that. I want to
clarify, he's not paid by RTD. He is paid by the Trust.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you for that clarification. That answers my question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, any other directors with any other old business?
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Mr. Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to give a shout out to our staff for the
wonderful inline events-- the planning that went into that. It was obviously, much different than
past events due to COVID.
And I think they all did a remarkable job in coordinating that and honoring the special day and the
accomplishments of having the inline completed and operational.
It was difficult. And they had to be flexible. And they did a wonderful job and a lot of compliments
out of the leaders that were able to attend. So thank you to staff for several days of really good
events.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you for saying that. It was an amazing event. Anyone else?

JEFF WALKER: Walker.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks, something was said earlier. And I want to address it-- something during
public comments. So what I'm going to read is from a presentation given to the Board on December
4, 2012.
The presentation was called Moving Forward-- Filling the FasTracks' Internal Savings Account.
And this is on presentation page 11.
OK, so the question is evaluate-- "How much is the savings related to the total funding for base
systems operations?" The second bullet under that question is, "The RTD Board always retains the
option to suspend the allocation or to transfer previously allocated funds back to the base system."
That's from December 4, 2012. That's it, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Anyone else with any old business
to come before the Board?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, I had a quick question for staff if I could. It's Shelley.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I think we're going to hear an announcement in the background. So go
right ahead.
Sorry, I'm on the train. I confess. I left early to go take a walk. I'm sorry. [LAUGHS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, you want to ask the question?
SHELLEY COOK: I do. Regarding the shields, how many do you now have? What percentage
are actually-- I rode the 52 today. And it had the barrier. I'm was glad to see that.
I've assumed that with the early progress, we're pretty close to done. But I thought staff might
know the number.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, Madam Chair, Paul Ballard. All of the buses that are operated by RTD
employees have been done. All of the shields required to equip the contractors buses have been
delivered to them.
The last subgroup that was being worked on was the over-the-road coaches operated on the Flatiron
Flyer. And I believe those have started. It's a small number-- somewhat less than 100. And all
those buses, of course, are not being used.

So I'd have to check on that last sub-fleet as far as how many of those Flatiron Flyers have yet to
be done. If Fred is on the phone, he might have a better update on the open-road-- [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Shelley, could you mute?
SHELLEY COOK: Uh-huh.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook, could you mute your phone, please?
[AUDIO OUT]
FRED WORTHEN: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, so all of our 42 coaches have been conducted with barriers. All of our
contracts have been-- [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know what that background noise is.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, staff will provide a written report to the Board, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, all right, I'm going to go ahead and go to
old business. I'm sorry, well, now it's quiet. Can everybody hear me?
ALL: Yes. Loud and clear. Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. I don't see any other old business. I'll call one
more-SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, I actually would like to take the opportunity to address my Board
colleagues here. As you all received the letter over the weekend regarding some safety concerns
that an individual shared who reached out to you. And I'd like to say this publicly and also on the
record that the email that was shared is actually, factually incorrect.
So this is the fourth year that we have led the March for Black Women. It's not a protest. It's
actually a rally. And it really centers on the healing and respite of Black women as an opportunity
for them to come to a space where they're provided resources, massages, healing, stage, a number
of things.
I think with the growing racial tensions that are occurring, there have been individuals that have
stalked and harassed many elected officials of color-- myself, Director Anderson, Representative

Leslie Herod, to name a few. And unfortunately, we were the targets of that harassment this
weekend.
But I would like to say for the record that the accusations within that email were absolutely not
true. This was a permitted event. We did, in fact, ask for volunteers to provide security. Because
we are Black women and our safety and security is incredibly important.
And so I wanted to say the importance of us as Board Directors of really strengthening our muscle
around racial justice. Because I think it was probably for some folks receiving that email-assuming that there is truth in how that sometimes can put Black and Brown bodies in danger,
literally. And that that information being shared, as extremists actually puts myself and the other
organizers-- Black women in places that are unsafe.
So I really wanted to take the opportunity to address that. I'm happy to answer any questions that
any Director might have. But I really would encourage us all to really strengthen our muscle around
racial injustice and inequities. Because Black and Brown and indigenous bodies are on the line,
thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Anyone else to come before the Board on old
business? OK, hearing none, I'd like to turn this over. Director Whitmore and Treasurer Guissinger
to talk about the Accountability Committee. Director Guissinger, are you in a place where you can
share information with us?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am, but I've been out of town all week. And so I don't have a lot to add
other than what Paul Ballard said that the Board has-- the Committee has split into subcommittees
that'll be meeting twice a month and then the full Committee will be meeting once a month.
And finance, governance, and operations-- all public meetings for them to attend. And if Director
Whitmore has more to add, that'd be great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Not much else to add. There was a Governance Committee meeting this
week. And a number of RTD staff members were on the call for reference-- the chair and myself.
There was a presentation from DRCOG related to six other governance structure case studies
around the country that was shared and discussed briefly amongst the Committee members. There
was opportunity for me to speak briefly to our Committee structure and some of the procedures
that we utilized.
So I think there will be more discussion about different structures-- not sure how that will turn out.
But that was certainly the meat of the discussion in the Governance Committee. One other thing.
The videos of the meetings are all available on the DRCOG website.

So for anybody that would like to go back on certain dates or certain Committees, it's fairly easy
to do so. We look forward to a busy fall with the three Committees. And we will participate in
those as often as we can. I think that's all, Madam Chair, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, OK, we're on to new business. Does any Director have
any new business to discuss?
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten. I have a question about the accountability.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so I remind for those who are listening and probably for many on the
Board, what is the timeline on the Accountability Committee? I mean, did some findings?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger. Yes, go ahead, Director Whitmore, mmhmm.
TROY WHITMORE: And jump in, Lynn, if I have these incorrect. But the committees charged
with a report due to the public in December and then a final report, I believe, in July of next year.
So those are the two milestone dates. Is that correct, Lynn?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's my understanding, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK,
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and then one other question. Does Director Whitmore, Director
Guissinger, or someone otherwise know the answer to who is the best source to keep an eye on the
budget, or they'd rather the expenditures that the committee is generating?
Because it was to the tune-- I'm going off memory. Because we have so many figures. What was
it? A couple 100,000 or more?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Miss McManus, can you talk about the-- yeah.
BARBARA McMANUS: Yes, so we have a particular cost code that everybody is coding their
time to for all the internal work that's being done. And then we will be getting monthly invoices
from DRCOG that will draw down on that money.
And we'll be able to get a report pulled through Doug MacLeod or Heather McKillop as we move
through this process.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you. That's all my questions on that.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, anyone else with new business? Before I adjourn, I would
like to take this opportunity, and I'm sure this Board of Directors will wholeheartedly jump in to
say, Paul Ballard, thank you, thank you, thank you.
Thank you for coming and working with us during probably one of the most amazing,
unprecedented, uncharted time in the entire history of the world. And you did an amazing job.
And I just want to wholeheartedly say, grasias, por todo. You really were an amazing partner to
work with. And while we look forward, and we're excited about Deborah Johnson, I'm a little sad
that I'm not going to be working with you. So I wanted to say thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard. And I would like to say thank you.
It has been a great honor. We still have to get through another month.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We do.
PAUL BALLARD: I'll be here. And we'll keep things together for Deborah Johnson. But it's been
a great honor to work with you and all the members of the Board and the staff and the community.
Thank you very much for those very nice remarks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, with that, I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
Do I hear a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Don't move-- Director Williams.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I heard Williams. Who did I hear next, Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there anybody who doesn't want to adjourn? Hearing none, it is
now 6:47 PM. Thank you all for participating. Have a great evening and all stay safe. Good night.
PEGGY CATLIN: Night, thank you. KATE WILLIAMS: Night.

