Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

September 16, 2010

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on
September 16, 2010 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Pro Tem Martinez, Second Vice-Chair
Busck, Secretary Bagley, & Treasurer Tayer.
Subject:

I.

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp

Other Board Members
Present:

Director Cohen

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to
order at 12:05 p.m.

September Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Washington presented the action items from the
unanimous consent. Director Bagley shared he was very concerned
about the impact of service deduction and fare increase but with the
surgical cuts that are proposed, this is a much more favorable situation.
The biggest issue that came out of the service change proposal is with
Coal Creek. Staff will evaluate the proposal from the alternative carrier
for a 12% subsidy reduction, obtain the feedback from the public
hearing and provide the recommendation to the Board as appropriate.
Director Martinez suggested staff may want to look at the per rider
subsidy not only for call-n-ride service but other areas where proposed
service changes are recommended.
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to
approve the Board agenda for the
September 21, 2010 Board meeting.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 4
Vote on
the Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


Resolution No.___, Series of 2010 (Revised Strategic Plan for
Transit Oriented Development)



FasTracks Desktop Support Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to award AMS a
3 year contract with two 1 year options for IT Desktop
Support Services (Contract # 10DY001) in the amount of
$340,000 not to exceed for all 5 years. AMS was selected
through the competitive bid process. The contract is being
brought to the Board because this is a Personal Services
Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.



Resolution No.___ Authorizing the Chief Financial Officer to
Arrange for the Issuance and Sale of Certain Financial
Obligations
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the attached
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2010 (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the Chief Financial Officer to arrange for the
issuance and sale of certain financial obligations (the
“Obligations”).



Purchase thirty-two (32) cutaway buses for call-N-Ride
service
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract for the
purchase of thirty-two (32) new cutaway buses to
Intermountain Coach of Colorado Springs, for a price not to
exceed $54,145 each and security cameras for all thirty-two
vehicles at a cost not to exceed $6,575 per vehicle. The total
not to exceed cost for all thirty-two buses and security
cameras is $1,943,040.



Invesco Station – Smart Card Conduit/Power
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to increase the contract
with the current 4-Car Platform Extensions-Phase II

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 4
Contractor, Krische Construction, in an amount not to exceed
$150,000 for a total contract value of $2,526,876.04 to
complete conduit and power supply installation for the Smart
Card Readers at the Invesco Station.


II.

January 2011 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve moving the
proposed January 2011 Service Changes (Attachment A) on
to public review and comment.

Board Bylaws revision status
Paula Perdue shared the revisions that are being made to the Board
Bylaws include:
 Changes to section on legal counsel
 Addition of language for the DBE Committee to include workforce
development programs
 Addition of description for Fiscal Sustainability TaskForce Ad hoc
 Pending language for the process to run for the Executive Committee,
Paula stated she will need to get the revised Bylaws to the full Board by
October 8th to meet the 10 day requirement in the Bylaws.
The Executive Committee discussed the relevancy of adding the DBE
and recommended that the DBE becomes a Standing Committee since it
is primarily tied into FasTracks and will be around for the next 16 years.
Paula will modify the Bylaws to make the DBE a Standing Committee
and remove the Fiscal Sustainability TaskForce from the Bylaws.

III.

Fiscal Sustainability TaskForce
Paula Perdue shared the RFQ has gone out today. The reviewers of the
responses are Chair Kemp, Director Tayer and Paula Perdue. We are
looking for a quick turnaround.

IV.

Other Matters





Director Cohen requested the Board acknowledge the new
manager of CDOT Rail, Mark Imhoff, and wanted suggestions on
the process. The Executive Committee recommended Chair
Kemp issue a letter on behalf of the full Board welcoming Mark
to the position. This is both symbolic and in continuing efforts to
forge good partnerships with CDOT in several areas.
Director Martinez requested a reminder email is sent out to Board
members of the upcoming meeting schedule and what the
agenda items may be.
Director Busck shared the GM Oversight and Performance
Management Committee will meet next Tuesday to formalize the
GM goal setting for 2010 and 2011 before submitting to the full
Board. He also reminded the Committee the General Manager
will be sending out his quarterly update electronically in the next
few days and it is important that we have full Board response.
Paula Perdue will send out an e-mail to the full Board.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 16, 2010,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 4








V.

Director Busck shared the update on the paperless packets and
that a survey will be sent out to the Board members asking them
to rank the importance of certain features and requirements.
This information will be shared with the Board members in the
Study Session scheduled for September 28.
Director Bagley referred to an article in the Denver Post on the
budget crisis for the City and County of Denver and the related
editorial. General Manager Washington shared some of his
concerns in reducing workforce, namely (1) RTD agency is one of
the few agencies to be expanding its service (2) If we do so we
will do it on the back of salaried employees since the union has a
binding contract. These are the same people who are delivering
on the services and accomplishments of RTD (3) the City
continues to give salary increases whereas RTD has operated in a
very lean mode for a number of years. The types of changes
now being instituted by the City are some of the things we have
had in place for years. Director Busck inquired what happens to
employees when service cuts are made. General Manager
Washington indicated natural attrition including hiring less people
takes effect.
After hearing much of this discussion, Director Bagley indicated
he was satisfied with the General Manager responses and does
not need to have printed copies of the Denver Post article sent to
the Board members.
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee meeting in Aurora,
9/15/10—Director Bagley indicated there were at least 10 people
there to discuss the article in the paper on relocating a station to
the west side of Federal. The group was concerned about why
their voices have not been heard. He anticipates they will be at
the Board meeting on September 21, 2010.
General Manager Washington responded that RTD has not made
any decision related to this issue and has not made any
commitments. The newspaper may have erroneously implied a
decision has been made.
Coalition for Smart Transit—Director Tayer wanted to know
when the Board could be provided an update on this committee.
The Executive Committee concluded it may be premature to take
any action before November 9 th when staff will provide
information on construction readiness, finance options and other
factors that are part of the complexity of this issue.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

