Planning-Capital Programs-FasTracks Committees
Aug 7 2018
[AUDIO OUT]
JUDY LUBOW: It's time to call the Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee
meeting to order for Tuesday, August 7, 2018. I'm Judy Lubow, the Chair of this Committee.
And the Co-chair is Claudia Folska. We have one recommended action, and two updates, and
then we, also, have an Executive Session. So I'm going to start with the recommended action.
And, first, I'm going to read it, and then ask for a motion. And it concerns the RTD Citizens
Advisory Committee Appointments.
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee
(CAC) of the Regional Transportation District that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint two
members of the Committee to an additional three year term, and appoint three new members to
the Committee to three year terms. Do I hear a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
Second.
CHUCK SISK: Third.
JUDY LUBOW: So who was the mover?
KATE WILLIAMS: Me.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
[INAUDIBLE].
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
[INAUDIBLE]
And Chuck Sisk is the second. OK.
OK. Can staff please speak to this?
SCOTT REED: Yes. This is Scott Reed. Bill Van Meter and myself participated in this on behalf
of staff, Chair Tisdale, Director Lubow, and Chair Lubow, in this case. Also, as part of the
Nominating Committee for the Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC), I think it's pretty well laid
out in the packet regarding the process that we went through. A total of 20 applications were
received. We did do interviews of six on that, and were quite pleased with the quality and the
interest that we had from the applicants. And I think we made-- the recommendations here are

very good selections. It was difficult to make the selection because we had such a high caliber of
people apply. And so I think that this is a very good potential addition to the CAC. And we're
also quite pleased with those who have elected to continue on in service.
So with that, I'll see if you have any questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. We have two members in the queue, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Can we recognize any of the members of the
Citizens Academy who are in the room? Could you stand or wave or do something?
SCOTT REED: The Citizens Advisory Committee?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
SCOTT REED: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I see Vivian.
SCOTT REED: Vivian is here.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's it? Anybody else? Going once, going twice. OK. Thank you for your
service, Miss Stovall.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Next up in the queue is Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Thank you, Scott, and, Bill, for doing this, and
the Committee as a whole. I think the Citizens Advisory Committee is incredibly important, and
I do appreciate Vivian being here mostly, if not every meeting, and all the other work that she
does. I know that the people who are on that Committee are highly talented and capable people.
So I'm wondering if you could explain to me in a little more detail of what their role and function
will be working with our team moving forward in light of 18 and 19 openings of different lines
and that sort of thing, and how they can really enhance what we do as Directors in our Districts.
SCOTT REED: Sure. We have been talking about, for some time, expanding the role of the
Citizens Advisory Committee. They were originally created as part of the FasTracks resolution
by the Board of Directors, sending to the ballot the language in 2004. And since then, obviously,
we have been able to complete a majority, not all by any stretch of the imagination, but a
majority of the FasTracks investments that are now in operation, or soon to open.
So for some time we have been exploring how we can best broaden the engagement of the
Citizens Advisory Committee for RTD. Roger Sherman here who is the liaison with RTD on that
has been involved in that. So I'm going to turn it over to Roger here to give an explanation of
that.

BILL SIROIS: Director, it's the perennial question that is always asked is how can they be
engaded. I always think, one, we have to turn it around and say, how can-- you know, how can
this Board ask them to be more engaged? What would you find helpful? I will tell you that they
have spent a lot of time this year focusing on outwardly facing community events.
There were 13 of them attended open houses for the fair study. We are going to spend the
majority of the meeting in August talking about their impressions, and they'll be working on
taking a position regarding that. But they all made a very big commitment to attend those open
houses, and collect information and talk to citizens about that. They've, also, led some transit
experience tours, and we've got more of those planned.
We have-- I know Christina has engaged them to volunteer at events, community events, where
we have booths. So that is something that she has now-SCOTT REED: That's booths.
ROGER SHERMAN: Booths.
SCOTT REED: Booths, not booze.
[LAUGHTER]
ROGER SHERMAN: Booze sounds more fun than booths. But-- you know, so I think that's
where they see because there's less opportunity for input as far as, you know, that there was
early, certainly in the FasTracks Program around planning decisions. They are really focused on
customer service outwardly facing activities.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So because they're called Advisory Committees, you know, I would be
very interested in learning what they'd like to advise this Board, this District, about. I'm
particularly keen and interested, as I've been saying since the day I came in January of 2013, to
this body, is to see a Youth Advisory Committee to sort of mirror the CAC. So like a YAC. Not
yet a YETI but a YAC.
ROGER SHERMAN: Well, I can-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But, I mean, they could like mentor, you know, maybe they could reach
out to young folks in their Committee. Maybe they could bring our Girl Scouts or Boy Scouts to
give the Pledge of Allegiance so that we're never without-- I don't know, but I'd like to see-- and
I'm just throwing that out there, this Body has the opportunity at some point to see where they
would like to have engagement with the CAC, but I think it's a huge, huge group of people with a
lot of talent, and we haven't tapped it yet. Thank you.
ROGER SHERMAN: Thank you. And I would just respond to that that I think it's incumbent
upon the Board to give guidance to your Committee about what would you like advice on, as
much as them picking something randomly, and coming forward. Where would you find their
advice helpful?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think there's a lot to be said for brainstorming. So, you know, just
to have random conversations isn't necessarily a bad thing. So what I'm after is a YAC. We've
got a CAC and I'd like a YAC. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm looking at-- and I rise to, I guess, a
point of clarification. I'm looking at the Board materials we have in front of us. And they are at
odds with the Board materials that were distributed to us last week in our Board Packet.
I am looking at the Board of Directors Report dated June 1, 2017, at page 1(b)1, and I know what
was distributed in our Board Packet was the July 30, 2018 Board of Director's Report. And I
think it might have simply been inserted inadvertently into this packet, but I just wanted to make
clear for the record who we were voting on, and that we're operating based upon the materials
that were submitted in the Board Packet last Thursday. Because the names are different relative
to the people being reappointed, or newly appointed.
JUDY LUBOW: Do you happen to have the names that you could read?
DOUG TISDALE: I do. And if you will look at your Board Packet as presented on the monitors,
you will see at page-- or item 1(b)1, and I don't know what page number that is in-- its packet
page 3 there. But in any event, reading from the materials-- because I looked at this and I said,
wait a minute, I remember voting for other people.
So I wanted to make sure. But following current members are recommended for reappointment
to an additional three year term ending May 31, 2021-- Heather Cronenberg, Rodger A. Hara.
And then the following applicants are recommended for appointment to a three year term
expiring on May 31, 2021, being Heather Britton Nancy McNally and Dawn Mullally.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. That's helpful.
OK. I'm next up to speak. I just wanted to chime in when Roger, you asked about the Board,
perhaps, giving some recommendations about what we would like. I think of the Citizens
Advisory Committee as kind of the ears of the Board, and I would hope that, perhaps, they
could-- when we are doing public outreach, some of them could volunteer to be there, and be
there as a listening post, you know, like, how do you think we're doing, what's working, what
isn't working, that type of thing. They might enjoy that or not, I don't know.
OK. Yes?
SCOTT REED: If I might add to that. We did have several of the CAC members attend the
public meetings. We had the 8 public meetings for the proposed fair changes, and so we were
quite pleased with the participation level we had there, as well.
JUDY LUBOW: That's great.

SCOTT REED: Very good point.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. And I hope that it will continue. But also-- but also being there as a place
for people to really report how they're feeling. Thank you very much. Director Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I join Chair-[INAUDIBLE]
Yes, I'll speak louder. Well, good evening. I join Chair Tisdale. I remember seeing very
distinctly Nancy McNally's name listed. So it seems to me that maybe we've had a mix-up, and
maybe this isn't quite ready for prime time. And because I think it's pretty clear that we don't
know who's really being nominated here. So and I just assume-- because I know Nancy's name
was it-- that caught my attention.
SCOTT REED: The print out that we have here with the full packet has the correct-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. I have the original print out that I approved before we posted,
and it does have Nancy McNally in it, as well. So I am not sure how that got changed out. Also,
looking at that item in the packet, and it's locked, meaning that no one can get into it to make a
change. So I apologize for that. I don't know how it happened. But what you-- what you
reviewed in your original packet was correct.
JUDY LUBOW: And it-- at least as far as I'm concerned, I think that's good enough, and it
doesn't warrant delaying it for a month.
OK. I'm wondering did you want to speak? Were you on the list? No. OK. All right. Are there
any Directors on the phone? OK. Well, then-- yeah. There's nobody else in the queue, therefore,
so I think we should move on the motion.
ROLF ASPHAUG Chair Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Sorry. Pardon me to interrupt. This is ROLF ASPHAUG [? Aspoke. ?] If
you do as has already been stated state for the record the actual names of the persons you are-you are nominating the new ones and the ones who've been reappointed, that should take care of
it as long as that is stated now in open session.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Because I keep hearing original packet, new packet, and I'm a little
concerned about that.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

JUDY LUBOW: OK. So I'm going to read-- oh, I'm sorry. Who did you say?
LARRY HOY: Chair Hoy.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, Chair Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. I would-- I heard our staff say that the document we got last week
was the correct one, and this one's incorrect. I would like-- having-- I know how that process
works because I've sat on that committee several times. I'd like to hear somebody from staff say
that, in fact, last week's document was, in fact, who they recommended. And I've got-- I've got
Rodger Hara, Heather Britton, Nancy McNally, Dawn Mullally, and I think Heather was in there
someplace.
ROGER SHERMAN: Heather Cronenberg.
LARRY HOY: Yeah.
ROGER SHERMAN: That's correct.
LARRY HOY: So those are the-ROGER SHERMAN: Those are the five.
LARRY HOY: And then my next question, if I may, is who's getting the one year appointment?
ROGER SHERMAN: They're all three year appointments.
LARRY HOY: Oh, because, oh.
ROGER SHERMAN: So the one I think I'm to-- incorrect on, maybe-- maybe had a one year.
LARRY HOY: These are all three year.
ROGER SHERMAN: These are all three year terms.
LARRY HOY: OK. And so Heather, Hara, Britton, McNally. So there's five of them.
ROGER SHERMAN: Correct.
JUDY LUBOW: Right.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
LARRY HOY: OK. I think that answers my question.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Well, I'm going to--

[INAUDIBLE]
Yes. And I'm going to reread the motion with the proper names. It is recommended by the
Nominating Committee for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional
Transportation District that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint two members of the
Committee to an additional three year term. And those people are Heather Cronenberg and
Rodger Hara. And, also, appoint three new members to the Committee to three year terms. And
that's Heather Britton, Nancy McNally, and Dawn Mullally.
OK. So are we ready to vote? OK Let's move forward with the vote.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
So the Mover is Kate Williams, and the Seconder is Chuck Sisk.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Do we have anyone on the phone?
JUDY LUBOW: I asked, and nobody peeped up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I thought, I thought I heard someone.
JUDY LUBOW: Anybody there? OK. Not yet.
OK. So this passed. 13 yeses, and zero nos. So the motion has passed.
All right. Let's go to updates. And the first update is Transit Oriented Development.
BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow and Board, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning. And joining me are Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities, and Chessy Brady, our Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Manager. And this
is our semi-regular update when we have enough good information regarding Transit Oriented
Development to update the Board on. And it's an update that they will present.
BILL SIROIS: Just one brief comment before I turn it over to Chessy. Again, this is Bill Sirois,
Senior Manager, Transit Oriented Communities. Just a kind of a good segue was the question
that we received in the-- that was asked about the Government Relations Committee about the
value of TOD. I think one of the good things that we'll be presenting tonight is some good
information on what the impacts are, and we're working on more information about value. So
just a good segue.
But, again, like Bill said, this is our periodic update to the Board about the goings on in the TOD
world. We have got some good stuff to present tonight, including some updates on some
projects, as well as, like I said, a more comprehensive impact assessment of TOD in the region.
So, with that, I will turn it over to Chessy.
CHESSY BRADY: Should I jump in or are we going to try to call up the presentation?

JUDY LUBOW: How much time do you think it will be to fix it?
OK. Well, why don't we just go ahead.
CHESSY BRADY: Yeah. I'll get going. So, again, I'm Chessy Brady, the TOD Manager. I'm
going to talk through today some of the work that we've been doing in the TOD Group and
where we're going in the next few months. So if you're able to follow along with your print outs,
feel free.
As far as recent work, we came to you in the winter to talk about our evaluation guidelines for
TOD projects, and part of what we were trying to do with that work was make it more
transparent in terms of what does RTD value when we look at TOD, so that internally we can
make and be better at making decisions, and externally developers can understand what we're
looking for when they're proposing projects to us.
So those evaluation guidelines were divided into two categories. We had principles, such as the
project must be budget neutral or positive. It must have-- it must increase ridership. So we're
going to require that projects live up to those principles. Then we're also going to evaluate-evaluate projects based on factors where we look at how much revenue does the project bring?
How much does it increase ridership? And try to evaluate projects that way.
And then moving-- if you're moving along with me, slide 6. We, also, brought to you last year
our unsolicited proposal procedure. The Board had-- the Board had approved unsolicited
proposal for Joint Development Policy in 2015, and we implemented the procedure last year.
And we're actually testing it out for the first time right now with our first unsolicited proposal.
So that proposal came in a couple of months ago for the Sheridan Station Garage on the W Line.
That developer has proposed to lease 120 parking spaces in the garage. There is 800 spaces there,
and they're used-- about 20% of them are currently used so we feel we have the capacity to lease
some of those spaces.
So an internal group evaluated that unsolicited proposal, determined that it had merit, and we
then went out for alternate proposals to make sure that if there are any other developers in the
district who would be interested in using that space, we want to give them a chance to respond.
So we're nearing the end of that proposal period. If something should come in, we'll review it,
and then, ultimately, we'll come back to you fairly soon, probably next-- in the next month or so,
with a preferred developer and a recommendation that we move into exclusive negotiations with
that developer.
Here we go. Seven. Thank you. OK. Thank you. Sorry about that.
So-- so here is just an image of the garage in question. So, again, we're currently accepting
alternate proposals. If we receive one, we'll review it. We'll come to the Board with the ultimate- our recommendation for a developer, and it will be up to you to determine whether we move
into a lease, or negotiations for a lease.

Next slide, please. So another update on-- back one. Thank you. Update on 29th and Welton.
This was brought to the Board in 2016 for your authorization of the sale of this parking lot to
City and County of Denver, or their assignee. We-- the City and County of Denver has selected a
developer, and currently, they're working on financing for their affordable housing development.
We expect them to close in fall of 2019. They are-- establishing the financing for an affordable
housing development is very complicated, so there's a lot influx at the moment, but we're hoping
that they will get there. If not, it's up to the Board to determine whether we extend their option,
which currently is set to end in September 2019. So we'll come back to you periodically with
updates as that project moves along.
Next slide, please. This slide-- oh, I have it. Thank you. This slide pertains to the handout that
you received in your packet, which shows TOD along every corridor in the district. So this has
been a significant piece of work that my team has been involved on, basically, finding every
TOD project we could in the District. And we worked with all high-density development within
a half mile walk of a rail station, or Flatiron Flyer Station. And we really came to a pretty
amazing result.
We're finding that there's 38,000 residential units, 10 million square feet of office, 1.4 million
square feet of retail, thousands of hotel rooms, that are-- we can't give ourselves 100% credit for
the development of all of this, but I think it's something that RTD really can be proud of that we
have contributed in a very significant way to the development in the District.
And I would point out here that the Denver Union Station (DUS) is included in this, but this does
not include downtown development. So something that's happening around the corner here is
excluded.
Some other work we've been doing, just going around the district meeting with jurisdictions,
sharing information, building relationships, learning about their TOD, trying to advise them on
best practices. And we have some-- we were in Westminster today, Littleton tomorrow, and we'll
continue that journey around the district over the next few months.
And then also building on what was discussed in the previous meeting. We're going to continue
our quantitative analysis of the impact of transit on economic development in the District, and
we'll bring that back to you, also, in the next few months, we hope. Other work we're doing,
looking at how much-- how residents around transit ride or don't ride. So we should have some
interesting results on that, especially, as it pertains to affordable housing, working with DRCOG,
administering stamp grants. And then, again, responding to any other unsolicited proposals that
may come in from the development community.
So that-- that's all I have, I went through it pretty quickly. I'm very happy to answer any
questions.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. First up in the queue is Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Chessy, and Bill, and Bill, and
Peggy, for a nice report.

I was not on the Board at the time that most of this stuff, including the 29th and Walton, was
voted on. I would have voted no, because I think that the chart shows clearly how much TOD
development is going on, and how much money a lot of people are making on that, and our
ridership is still down. So we are not profiting from all of that wonderful TOD development
because of previous poor planning. And for years we have been selling those lots because we're
not in development, you know, we're the bus company and that's-- we're not a land developer.
But the fact of the matter is that we did not envision this happening, and we, I think, in the past
did a poor job of supporting RTD in all of this. If we could say that based on TOD and all of
these wonderful units and hotel rooms and retail stores that are all along our bus routes and train
stations, our ridership was up 20%, then I would say we could be proud. But, unfortunately, I
don't think we have anything to be proud of.
And I think that we need to look at what we are doing in the future very closely. And so I'm very
glad to have some people that I happen to know are really qualified and have that-- our best
interests in heart. But I don't know that I think we need to be proud of anything we've done so
far. Thank you. Sorry. Bye.
BILL SIROIS: One comment to that. I think that a lot of what we see is not actually influenced
by us, meaning, that we don't have any-- we don't influence the development itself because it is
approved by the local government. It is oriented around our facilities, but we-- it could be across
the street from land we own. But, again, the orientation of it, I think that the stat that we see
about the focus and the goal of communities that have put the emphasis on TOD, I think, is a big
thing. I agree with you that the ridership impact is not there yet, but I also think that it is the
framework and the impetus is set in place to make it happen as things change, and as congestion
gets worse, gas prices eventually go up, and the economy eventually changes.
So there's other factors at work here that we are totally out of our control. So I do think I would
disagree. I do think it's proud-- we can be proud of the fact that the impact, but the result has not- the ultimate result we've not quite seen where we want it to be.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, Bill. I know that you and I have talked about this before, and I
believe being somebody who is involved in transit, that in the future, we will see car ownership
go down and transit use go up. And, you know, jet packs replace lime scooters, and lots of things
that are going to happen. I just feel real strongly, and you know this, that we need to really be
aware of how we can be involved in this. What influence we can have looking toward our future
recoup in ridership that we did not get out of land sales. So, you know, I'm game. I'm hoping that
we'll in the long run, it will turn around. And I think you guys are doing a good job at that right
now. But we all need to be very aware of that. Thank you. I'll shut up.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Next up is Director Solano.

PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Lubow. My concern is the North Metro. Has there
been any prelimin-- hard to get that word out-- preliminary talks to the municipalities about
TOD? Can we have a gist of things real quick?
CHESSY BRADY: Sorry. All right. Thank you. We-- they were-- we met with Thornton and
Northglenn just a month ago, and they've done extensive planning around their stations to
facilitate development on the private property that surrounds those stations. So they are-- they're
ready, and they're starting to see some construction starts, and we were able to go through those
plans with them. And there's really a lot going on out there. It's very exciting.
PAUL SOLANO: Can I have one more?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. So it's pretty much the developers that kickstart the whole development
talk. So Commerce City has nothing going on yet.
BILL SIROIS: You know, we have not met with them, but I think they're on our list to go meet
with them. I think what we-- what I see-- what I typically see in corridors like the North Metro
which is under construction, is a lot of times developers are late to the party, meaning, they like
to see things coming out of the ground. You know, things like stations and canopies and stuff,
and they, oh, it's going to be a station there. And then they actually get more excited.
I think what we've seen in the North Metro area, and I think what we've seen over time, is that
the understanding of TOD and the planning for it, I think, has accelerated developers interest. So
we already are-- we already are seeing activity in the north metro corridor, whereas, I would say
if you compare that to like the southeast quarter 10, 15 years ago, you didn't see as much
development activity before the station opened. And so I think that the market in Denver has
matured somewhat so the developers are responding earlier than they were.
So, I mean, I think-- and, you know, we're excited to go meet with Commerce City to see what is
going around along their facility. I know that they've got some challenges there with some of the
uses, but I know that they've been doing some planning, as well.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you. I'm good.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. Director Hoy, please.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. I would like to make one quick comment, and then I have a question.
My comment is about TOD and ridership and the fact that we have TOD coming on board, and
ridership may be down. That doesn't mean that the ridership going to bed down even further if
we hadn't done the TOD. I mean, there's another way to look at that, so I just wanted to make
that comment. It occurred to me as that discussion was going on that it may be good we did it.
So-- but that's not a question, that was just a comment. My question is on the Sheridan
unsolicited proposal. Have we resolved-- have we resolved the parking issue?

CHESSY BRADY: Yes. I think-- I think if we're talking about the same parking issue. So one of
the things we plan to incorporate into this lease is that if the utilization by transit users should
increase to a point where we need the spaces back from the developer, then we will be able to get
them back as needed.
As far as who's parking where, if that-LARRY HOY: No, I'm actually talking about-BILL SIROIS: He's talking about the-LARRY HOY: --the financing on the lot and-BILL SIROIS: The Certificate of Participation (COP's) issue.
LARRY HOY: Yeah.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah.
LARRY HOY: I don't know if that's-BILL SIROIS: We have done a lot more research with our Bond Counsel, and Rolf maybe even
be able to talk this more detail than I can. But-- oh, and Heather can, excuse me, Heather's here.
So we did do a lot of research on that, and that is one of the reasons why this proposal is moving
forward, because a lot of that was resolved.
LARRY HOY: Because, you know, when-- last year we had a lot of discussion about this. Well,
Heather and I did, and I was surprised to see it come up again.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So, we took a different approach with them and said instead of
them keep coming back to us telling us what they wanted, we went back to them and said this is
what we can do. And so within the constraints of the COP, so it was a little different approach
because we were tired of a year and a half of going back and forth and not making any progress.
So we, basically, research what could we do. And that's why you see that 18 year amount with
options, because that's under the restrictions of the depreciated value, or depreciated time frame
under the certificate associated with the tax exempt COPs.
So-- and we've gotten Bond Counsel to bless everything that's in their current proposal, namely,
because we told them what we could do. And if they could live with that, then we could move
forward. If they could not live with it, then we needed to finalize discussions once and for all. So
we were able to get to that point with some pretty severe restrictions. One, on the number of
parking spaces, and that was an issue. And, two, on the time that we can sign a lease for, and
then options after that.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. I'm sure that was a lot of hard work.

HEATHER BRITTON: It was a long process, but we finally got there.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. That's all I have.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I don't recall that we have a consistent,
comprehensive parking policy for the RTD. Do we?
BILL SIROIS: We have the parking evaluation guidelines that are kind of a broader policy that
was adopted by the Board. I believe that was at the-- oh, I'm trying to remember that-- I think it
was at the beginning of 2017, the Guiding Principles that the Board adopted. That is our kind of
overarching policy. It is not, you know, super detailed, but it does provide us, you know, in terms
of the criteria that we should be looking at in terms of making modifications to any parking.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So it's kind of high level and vague?
BILL SIROIS: It's high-- yeah, it's high level and provided in terms of-- that would provide us
guidance in terms of recommendations that staff would have-- would take to the Board.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I, personally, would really like to see a detailed policy that this
Board could approve and review. Moving forward, we're going to have a lot more parking. I
think we're not getting the best and highest value or use out of the parking investment that we've
made in the District. And I think we've been talking about that for a long time. I know it was a
deep conversation with the Iliff station in Aurora.
So I would really hope to have something like that in hand before I vote on the Sheraton parking,
first of all. Because I don't want to get $2 a day for those parking spaces. And then there's that
whole third party thing and who gets to charge. And so I'd like to understand that better before I
make a vote on it.
In terms of other policies I would be interested, and I don't know if it's your department, Bill, or
not, but we now have a directive for guidelines for these devices that get dropped everywhere.
Maybe Lime is one of them, or another. This board didn't vote on that or hasn't read those
policies. It came out in a press release, and it was quite a surprise. So if you wouldn't mind, I'd
like to see some policy forward for us to review.
BILL SIROIS: And just to speak to that, I think-- and this is regarding the Denver-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm going to just-- if you don't mind, I'm going to stop you because I'm not
really interested in what Denver did. It's our property, and it's our policy.
BILL SIROIS: And that's exactly what I'm going to talk about, which is they're related to the fact
that we are having-- working with Denver on their pilot program that they're orienting around
transit, so that we knew that we were going to be impacted on our property. And we have moved

forward with a license, an option or a draft license agreement with the operators-- not with the
city-- with the operators to say here's the rules if you're going to park on our property.
And that's kind of where we're at right now. We have not had the discussions with the operators
yet. We've given them a draft of the license agreement, and we hope to have that conversation
here soon, and then, hopefully, a signing of that option agreement within the next, I would say,
four to six weeks.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I think that the policy should come before that, and I think that if you
were to reread the press release, it seems very much like a policy and that it was already
approved. But nobody here-- I hadn't seen it or even heard of it.
And on another question about the VA Hospital. Finally, it's open. It's in Aurora. It's a big, big
station. Is there anything that's going on with the pedestrian bridge to get the vets from our
station safely to the VA?
BILL SIROIS: Not that I'm aware of. But I don't believe that we've had any discussions other
than during the actual construction itself. I mean, since we've been open for, what, now, more
than a year, you know, now that they're open, I don't believe there's any-- been any additional
discussions beyond what happened during the project construction.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I know Bernie Rogoff has said something about it, like, every day since
it's been worked on.
And then can you give me an update a little bit on what's going on at the Yale station, and on the
west side of the Alameda station?
BILL SIROIS: Sure. The-- the Yale station, there have been a couple of projects, I think, as the
Board knows, there was, I think, a series of three projects that have been done in succession.
Two by the Cobalt Mile High Development team, and then one I can't remember the name of the
party. It's actually in the separate handout that we have in terms of the names of the projects.
So they have that-- you know, there has been interest in looking at a joint development on our
site, but we have received no formal proposal from anybody.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Did we give away any parking spaces at the Yale station?
BILL SIROIS: No. No, we have not given-- we have not done anything to or proposed any
modifications to our station at this point.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And none of our parking spaces, I mean, you didn't like give them some
of ours and get something someplace else?
BILL SIROIS: No. No, we have not-- we have not done anything or agreed to anything, or seen
any proposal formally.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And then another was a discussion a while back, and I've lost track of
it. You know, we had that bus barn on the west side of the Alameda station. Something was
going to happen, and then-- is anything happening?
BILL SIROIS: Yeah. So what happened there is we, if remember, we did receive an unsolicited
proposal and, actually, it was the project that initiated the whole process that Chessy outlined in
terms of creating a new policy. And then, ultimately, a process for answers to proposals, which
we did accept from D4. They went forward and then developed a project which was to secure
their financing and development. They finally did that, I think it was about-- I think it was a year,
year and a half ago. And then once that was secured, they did close on the property. So we did
sell that to them. Now, they are constructing it's the Emich Auto Dealership. I believe-- I'm not
sure what else is going on they say, but I know that's the primary use.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Are they going to put a bridge over it?
BILL SIROIS: No, they're not.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. OK. So-- OK. And then, finally, you know, to Director Williams
point, I think she's quite right, you know. And I will say for the record, Director Williams, I did
not support that sale. I've never supported the sale of any of our dirt. I think that that is
something that we could sell your dirt when you're so desperate for cash. Otherwise, lease it.
Now, Denver Union Station is a great example. This body approved 100 year-- or 99 year lease
for Union Station. And as a result of their tremendous success, we're making money. Profit? No,
we don't make profit. But we can help cover our bills better. And be able to finish some projects.
What's interesting, though, is didn't the people that run DUS get a 50 year extension to the 99
year?
BILL SIROIS: I believe it was-- there was an initial 60 year lease with a-- I can't remember the
options, but it ended up being a 99 year lease in total.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Really?
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Because I heard it was a 150 from Mr. Eisenberg at a City Council
Meeting.
BILL SIROIS: I don't believe so. I think it was-- I think it was 99 was the-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can you just confirm that for me?
BILL SIROIS: Sure.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.

BILL SIROIS: Sure.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's all. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Lubow.
First of all, relative to the question of scooters on our property, that is a very apt observation, and
a very important discussion. And I am advised by Mr. Meter, who's filling in for Mr. Genova for
the next couple of days while he deals with family issues, that the providers are actually meeting
with us on Friday of this week to have the discussion about that. And so we anticipate that it will
be addressed, and that what we have seen is the City and County of Denver's suggestion for how
things should be done, but now we have the opportunity for management to step in and create
operational guidelines for how that actually will be done.
Second point relative to retention of ownership. That is very significant, and you will recall that
for the last year and a half when talking about TOD, I've been talking about that. And I am-- I
believe I am correct in my recollection, that's now one of the factors that we have. If you look at
page 3 of this TOD evaluation guidelines page under categories of guidelines, we've got factors,
there are 11 elements measured for every TOD project, divided into tier 1 and tier 2. And, I
believe, in tier one is the ability to retain ownership of the property, and-- and enter into lease of
the property so that we have some control, and potential upside. And you are right, Director
Folska, when you say it's not about making profit. We're not here to make profit. But we are here
to be able to preserve and manage our assets and create the opportunity for us to do other things
with revenues that are produced that are directly appropriate to our mission.
Third and last, those are two comments. I have a question about the University Parking Garage,
because I know we have that space that looks like it's ready to be either retail space, or hotel
space, or some kind of youth hostel, or something, on-- I mean, it would be perfect for that, quite
honestly, on the ground floor of the University Parking Garage.
Can you tell me, please, what the current status, tell all of us, please, what the current status is
relative to the Union, University garage?
BILL SIROIS: So as many of the Board Members know, or are aware of, we've had a long
history with this space. It's been in-- been in place since 2006. We've had-- we've had our issues
and, basic to sum it up, we've gone, now, I think, with two Request for Proposals (RFP). We've
got some proposals, but I think it really-- what it really comes down to is the space is raw space.
There is limited utilities to the space. There is no dedicated parking for the space. So when we
have talked to retailers or potential tenants, It's going to cost a little bit-- about $2 million to
finish it with no guarantee of any parking.
And so it's been a huge issue for us. We've had-- we've had conversations over the years with
you. I think what has happened most recently is the City and County of Denver did do a plan,

and then it was followed up by University of Denver (DU) doing a master plan, which idea-- idea
that DU would love to do something with that space themselves.
Now, we have not received anything from them in terms of a proposal, or anything, but that
certainly is-- we've also have our eyes on that space for ourselves Chief Meter could talk to the
issue of the security command center which that space has been, potentially, identified for that.
So we've got some options of our own. And we're pursuing some grant funding for that.
So we've talked about those things, and I think the thing that I like is those things aren't mutually
exclusive. But we could do our own use there and do something around it. And so that's
something that we're considering. It's still kind of out there, but I said from the space itself, there
was-- I will say this. Back in-- and I've always told the story. When that space was originally
developed, I worked for the City and County of Denver. I thought it was a great idea to put retail
space.
Now, what happened was when we designed it, we let the contractor design it. He didn't design it
for retail, he just put a glass wall up and said this is retail space, which is not retail space as
we've come to learn. And so, therefore, it really has not been able to been-- to be least associated
with some of those issues.
- Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Anderson, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Well, first of all, I'd like to respectfully
disagree with Director Williams. And for many reasons. Not every one of these projects is the
same. And it relies a whole lot on the local government involved. And so I'd like to call your
attention to the G Line, because we have had Transit Oriented Development by design way
before we were even assured of having the transit. Because we knew that we needed to intensify
our city, and we had some places we could do
That. And if you look at your project, it has Arvada Station Apartments. I would argue just a
little bit with the date of 2012, because this was an abandoned piece of property that the State
abandoned and let deteriorate and gather all kinds of criminal activities, all kinds of stuff. And
then the State wanted to put a jail there. And this is in my neighborhood, quite frankly, and our
citizens decided we did not want that.
So we have, also, had an Urban Renewal Authority. Urban Renewal Authority worked with-- the
developer started. He actually made a deal with the State of Colorado to clean up the terrible land
uses and the underground-- the leaking underground storage tanks, and so on, that were on that
site. So we were able to do that. Also, water to our flats was where a construction company was,
and we decided that we could put Transit Oriented Development there and increase densities.
And if you're familiar at all with any kind of thought in suburban land use, it is not-- it's not-they hate, they just absolutely hate, development that just eats up land. But they really hate high
density development, too. So we, the City Council and the Mayors have went ahead and bit the

bullet and started doing Transit Oriented Development. And we developed the Water Flat-- the
Water Tower Flats. Solana. Solana is on a piece of ground that was way under use, it was zoned
industrial, frankly. And no industry wanted there because it didn't have any really good
transportation.
But it was right next to the rail line. And-- and I know many of you have heard about Arvada's
lack of a hotel, so we did get that. But I can tell you for a fact we would not have been able to get
the G Line without our city increasing densities and preparing the city with higher density so we
qualified before we even had a train.
So there's many ways to do Transit Oriented Development. The City of Arvada worked with the
RTD District and traded some ground and created a nice parking garage. Otherwise, it would
have just been parking-- uncovered parking. So I am pleased with what has happened in Arvada,
and I think it's because we had good governance and people willing to take a risk on our City
Councils.
I wanted to really congratulate Westminster, though, for what they've been doing there. And I
know Larry's train station is right there, but the Transit Oriented Development, I think, is in my
district.
JUDY LUBOW: Lorraine, could we-- could we wrap it up and move forward.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I'm sorry. I will hurry along, but I'm going to finish my piece.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Everybody else talks forever.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: OK.
JUDY LUBOW: I appreciate all the work that you're doing.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: So, never mind. I want to congratulate Westminster, Colorado for
what they've done with Transit Oriented Development. And, also, who would have thought
Adams County would come to the table and do nice development along there. So I think all of
this has been very good yet and, quite frankly, the Gold Line is in Adams County, and quite a bit
of it is Adams County. And I remember on that they were looking at that as the place where there
would be a renaissance for Adams County.
So this is good stuff and I think we just need to make Transit Oriented Development better. It's
good for our community. So thank you. And thank you, Madam Chairman, for letting me finish.
JUDY LUBOW: What a joy you are. OK. Director Broom, please.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'm want to put a plug in, I guess, for TOD development along
the R Line in Aurora. If you've gone out there in recent months, the whole area is being
transformed by TOD development.
Over a year ago, this Board requested a list of vacant property that the District had, and that was
distributed and I don't know what I did with my copy. But I would like to have a copy of-- an
updated copy, I guess, of the land that RTD owns at the TOD stops on the R Line in my District
to help me going forward working with developers in the area. I think that would be helpful.
Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can everybody just have that?
BILL VANMETER: Yes, we will work on getting that to the full Board.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Next up is myself.
OK. I-- one, I wanted to say I really appreciate the update, and I am personally very excited that
we have so much development happening around transit. And I think it's-- I understand the issue
that Kate is raising, but development around transit is a very good thing. So thank you.
OK. So I have some questions. I believe it's page 10. You've got the TOD value principles. And
I'm wondering what happens when there are no answers in those boxes. What does it mean? I
mean, if there is a whole bunch of, no, we're not going to go forward, or these are old, so what do
we do about the no answers for the old ones. Are we learning anything from them? That type of
thing.
CHESSY BRADY: That's right. We learned from these past projects, and we're anticipating what
we think will be possible in future projects, and what we think should be required. So in our
minds and as described to the Board, I think, last over the winter when these were approved, any
new project that comes in must meet all of these. So it should be getting all yeses.
JUDY LUBOW: I didn't realize that. Good.
CHESSY BRADY: There should be budget positive. It should increase ridership. It should be a
lease. It should follow the parking guiding principles. It should improve safety, security, and it
should have support from the jurisdiction.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, that's excellent. Thank you. Oh, and a question that I had was, when you
listed all the development that happened, you specified that it would not include downtown
Denver, and I didn't understand that. Why is that the case?
CHESSY BRADY: We-- the development we try to include in the handout is-- are projects that
could arguably be attributed to transit. And I don't think something that's happening at 16th in
California, though it is adjacent to a transit station, is necessarily because of the station. It's
probably-- certainly could be part of it, but it's probably just because it's downtown. And so for
that reason we didn't include those projects.

JUDY LUBOW: I see. Thank you. And that makes sense. Let me see. So with the Sheridan
property, what would the-- what would the parking spaces be leased for?
CHESSY BRADY: They would be used for an affordable housing development that would go in
next door. So what this project-- actually, it would allow is in-- an additional number of units to
be built on the adjacent property, instead of the developer building their own parking, they're
able to build more units and provide more affordable housing because they're parking on our
property.
BILL SIROIS: If you're asking about the value piece, that's to be determined. We're-- we're
expecting to get-- I mean, we're expecting to look at that as part of the negotiation process.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, wasn't that part of the problem with the University Station where the
parking spaces were going to be used by the developer, and he would not have to produce other
ones? And it didn't seem like RTD was getting a real good deal for doing that for them.
BILL SIROIS: And I think we learned from that. And, again, are looking at to getting the full
market value for these sites. And so we're going to be looking at what that-- determining what
that is as part of the process.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you very much. OK. That's it for me. So next up is Jeff
Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I get to use I-25 and Broadway in Alameda. I go past those, and
I've seen the scooters. And I think whoever's putting those out there, they're all neatly lined up. I
haven't seen them strewn about like I was afraid I might. So, congratulations to the people who
use them, or the staff that keeps them-- our staff, their staff, whoever's keeping them in order,
thanks for that because that was one of my concerns.
Sidewalks are a different deal. I see them anywhere on the sidewalks, usually, near there, near
our bus stops. I haven't noticed them blocking anywhere like wheelchair access or anything, but
I-- but they're not as orderly. They just happen to be around. But maybe it's because there's not a
space as obvious to place them as there is at I-25 and Broadway. And I think I've seen one or two
at Alameda, but not many in Alameda.
I think the sale or lease of the land, whatever we get into, I think that depends on what our need
for capital is at that time, and also the market's demand for space. How hungry it is for dirt. If I
remember correctly, at 29th and Welton, there wasn't anybody willing to buy it for a lease. Is that
correct? That's why it wasn't leased.
BILL SIROIS: Well, one of the reasons why we proposed a sale is because it was a condo
proposal. So we have talked to most people, and doing a lease on a condo development is
virtually impossible to do, just because of the nature of the project.
JEFF WALKER: Right. Yes, so there are conditions that more certain types of actions over
others. And TOD by itself, the nature of TOD seems to be to reduce the need for long-range

mobility. You know, live, work, and play right in the same four block area. So, I think-- my
guess is, just the very nature of TOD is kind of anti-- not anti-transit, but instead of transit, you
don't have to go anywhere, because you got it all right here. I think that's part of it.
There's also-- you know, the conditions are different. We had record ridership back in 2014. I
believe the conditions are different now. We're out of the recession. Things are booming.
Incomes are flat, but real estate values are hot now. And a lot of people-- a lot more people are
employed now than they were five, six years ago. So I think that-- all that feeds into why people
aren't riding as often as they used to. They have more options.
I still think we're the best one. I ride the bus almost every day. But not everybody's in that
situation. So one thing I'm wondering. I know I talk about Denver because I live there and I get
appointed to a lot of stuff that deals with Denver. So that blueprint Denver identified a lot of
corridor so Federal, Broadway, 38th and Park Avenue, as areas for high density development.
Those are not rail corridors. If you look and see what's going on now on Broadway in Inglewood,
and just north of Inglewood in Denver, there's a whole bunch of stuff going on. So I'm
wondering if you're starting to see a demand for more-- I'm seeing it. I'm wondering if you're
seeing more of a demand for TOD like development along bus corridors where there aren't
historic-- the historic TOD sites where we own land. But just the-- we have that interface with
them anyway. If that make-- I hope that makes sense.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah. Certainly, I would say on the-- you know, our high capacity bus corridors,
I mean, we are seeing certainly Colfax you're seeing redevelopment, you're seeing it on South
Broadway. You know Denver's new-- Denver new transit plan, obviously, you know, picks it up
a little bit because, again, they're looking at the transit and their development as part of the
Denver ride process. Identified those quarter-- some of those quarters you talked about where
they're really proposing to look to increase the frequency, and make it more of a BRT light
service.
And I think to answer a question that was brought up earlier about our engagement with Denver,
I was a participant in the Denver Moose transit plan. I think the conversation that we've had is
we're not going to be looking to-- they're not looking to be-- start their own transit agency but,
again, they're looking to how they can increase service and invest in transit as a mode to move
people versus moving cars. So that's their whole premise for their efforts.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, yeah, and hats off to them, hats off to cities like Arvada and some of the
other ones. Englewood, I know, is updating its transportation-- or its land use plan, its comp
plan. I'm pretty sure it's this comp plan, and they're including a big transit component in that.
So we've been asked to-- I've been asked to help facilitate moving bus stops. So, I'm sorry, I
don't think I was clear before. Are we saying things like, can you relocate a bus stop, or can you
put a bus stop near our development? Because we don't own land, but what influence we do have
could be just limited to the location of a bus.

BILL SIROIS: Sure. I know that our Service Planning Group, in particular, works with
developers and others on a continual basis about relocating stops. But, again, there's trade offs to
that, because if there's an existing-- something that that stop is located next to it. So I think they
look at those tradeoffs regularly when they interface with developers on those kind of things.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thank you. That's it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I am going to skip Claudia because I believe you already-- you already had
a turn, and I'll come to you later. Director Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Chessy and Bill, thank you very much for really
bringing this into focus for us. We know we've been talking about it and I think we hired folks
from Boston to come in and talk about it some time ago, didn't we? As I recall. Memory's short,
though.
But I'm particularly intrigued by the Sheridan station garage just in terms of the-- I commend
you for looking at this, but I'm sure you've looked at these concerns about affordable housing,
and one which I think is laudable, there's no question about that. But those are going to be, I
assume, units are to be owned as affordable housing, right? Or are they going to be rented?
CHESSY BRADY: That-- they'll be for rent.
CHUCK SISK: OK. But here's the concern I have. Is that once people start parking there, it's
kind of like open space that is not really open space. They because-- it becomes theirs. And I
think-- you know, I don't think we have to be so clear, and this is not going to affect me. I'll be
long gone. But-- but in terms of saying, you know, we need these parking spots back. Now,
we've used them for years and, you know, that's-- that really becomes the issue that is very
foreseeable. I'm not saying don't do this, but I am saying that we really have to be very clear,
especially, with the developer and-- because the developer will be long gone, too. They'll take
their money and run. And then the mortgage company-- so I'm-- I'm-- I think we have to really
articulate ourselves. And the other thing that I would consider is this. We built the Sheraton
station how long ago? When was that built?
BILL SIROIS: We opened in 2013.
CHUCK SISK: OK. But I'm hoping that you're going to use current parking values, not the value
we attributed to it in 2013. We're talking about 2019 prices, and you're talking about spaces that
probably are in the $35,000 to $40,000 per-- per space, right, in that neighborhood.
BILL SIROIS: I think we'll have to check on that in a minute. I think it's a lot== I think we paid
like $13 to $15 when we built it in 2013. Now, on the open market-- but I think on the open
market, generally, I hear 18 to 20, for a for a-- yep. Know based well I understand there's a
difference in downtown Denver. But anyway point is whatever the location is. And the other
point is that, Bill, I know. I think we've been rather consistent about revenue producing and not
to be a broken record but I've been a broken record about this. And I hope it continues at least
that-- and it is embodied in our, you know, transportation oriented development. I think it's so

important that we look at this, and as Director Anderson said, I mean, we don't make up
everything-- everything can't be sold, everything can't be-- it can't be leased. We have to look at
it as on an ad hoc basis. But it's terribly important we look at it in terms of long-term financial
benefit to RTD, right?
Again, operating income that we direly need. So thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams, please. Oh I'm sorry. OK. Sorry. Yeah, Director
Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair Lubow. And I would echo everything that's
been said here tonight. I think everybody's point is right spot on. I mean, even though they're
kind of everywhere because everything is unique and different. I don't think that Director
William has ever indicated that having an issue didn't like TOD developments. And that's not
really what I'm here to say. But I am interested in the real estate development in downtown. In
particular, because downtown transit system is the hub of RTD. So I would beg to differ,
respectfully, that they should be admitted from that chart. So if you could kindly include them
into that chart, I certainly would like to see that. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Director Williams
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair for tolerating me again. I just want to note that
back to Director Sisk's comments on the Sheridan station. It might be a really good thing if we
got some positive press out of it, you know, like, if the-- I don't know if the parking spaces said
this space is contributed by RTD. Or RTD partners in development of affordable housing. So
more people can have a house because they don't have to have a== we need to get that out of it,
that intangible, very much, which also would help us to maintain the fact that they are, in fact,
are spaces in the long term. That's one point.
And the other point I want to make back to talking about alternative forms of transportation.
There is a shuttle in Englewood called the Art Shuttle, which is just in the process of changing its
name to the Inglewood trolley. So we fund that, we underwrite that project. And in our recent
planning, we have removed some of our fixed route service, because that same area is served by
that, as opposed to what our partnership is with Chariot now, who we are not underwriting, but
the City and County of Denver is seriously underwriting. And who is in direct competition with
our existing service? So what I'm asking is that we look long and hard. You know, maybe we
should be partnering with an underwriting chariot because, obviously, they're here, you know,
they're moving in. And my understanding, this is not their last move that they're going to make
here in Denver.
So we might want to look at the model that we have been very successful with, the Inglewood
trolley, is compared to where we stand at this moment in our relationship with chariot. That's just
a suggestion from somebody who has to hear from the people on the street all the time. Thank
you, again, for your patience. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Lubow. You know I'm dating myself, but I remember prior
to FasTracks, and I think it even predated guide-- the field guide the ride. TOD stood for Transit
Oriented Design. And I think by way of trying to increase ridership we can look, particularly, in
the more remote areas of small fixes working with communities to improve access to transit,
whether it's bus routes or, you know, sidewalk improvements, whatever, to encourage ridership
on our other facilities. Because this has evolved into the transit oriented design-- or transit or any
development arena, to be really along the rail corridors predominantly, and I think I see some
opportunities for some very low capital intensive improvements to areas that could, in fact,
improve ridership going back to the old Transit Oriented Design guidelines days. So it's just an
opinion.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I don't see anyone else in the queue so I want to thank you for that
interesting discussion, and we'll go to our next update. The-- the next update is quality of life.
Yeah. Staff ready?
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter. We are working to get the visuals and the
PowerPoint presentation ready for the quality of life update, and I am joined up here by Carly
Macias, Senior Transportation Planner, I believe, is your formal title, is that right, Carly? And
she is going to give you the update on our annual Quality of Life report.
CARLY MACIAS: So while they're figuring out the presentation, I'll just give you an overview
of what I'm going to present tonight. So I am Carly Macias, project manager for the Quality of
Life study. We-- I think we've always come to you on an annual basis to give you an update on
this study.
So the presentation I'm going to give is just a small piece of the entire report that you got in your
packets. We tried to highlight some of the most interesting trends that we found in the report.
And then one more note. This is based on the most recent information that we could get, so it's
data from 2016 and 2017. So I think it's ready.
So the Quality of Life study, its RTDs data driven evaluation of progress towards FasTrack
Schools. And we're going to move through each of these goals and a couple of metrics that
supports them. So our first goal is to balance transit needs with regional growth. So the first
metric we're going to look at is housing starts. I think we all know that there's been a lot of new
development in the region, especially, since 2009, you can see a lot of new housing units on the
market. And we are, also, seeing more balance between single and multi-family housing.
And next, this is Miles of Rapid Transit. So our rapid transit network has more than doubled in
the last 10 years. And a lot of this is a result of the new FasTrack Lines opening. 2016 is of note,
it's the University of Colorado A Line, the B Line, and the flat iron fire all opened that year,
adding about 50 miles to our network.
So the second goal is to increase transit mode share. So we started off by looking at vehicle miles
traveled because driving is a dominant commute mode. So you see a really big increase-- well, I
guess, a steady increase in vehicle miles traveled. And this is on a daily basis. But when we look

at transit boardings, and this is annual transit boardings, there's less of a trend. You do see a
decline from 2016 to 2017, but it's not an overall decline. And so the next few sides are also
related to transit boardings. So this is average weekday boardings by service type. So you see bus
rail, and we also covered free mile ride and free metro ride. So our boardings are growing with
our new investments going in, but bus ridership still represents the majority of our ridership.
So next we looked at transit boardings skyline. So we, also, looked at it over time so you could
see how ridership changed. Our highest ridership lines are the EFH Lines. Another notable trend
is a 20% increase in the University of Colorado A Line ridership from 2016 to 2017.
And next we looked at transporting at station, so this is a combination of bus and rail ridership at
these stations. We highlighted a few of the most interesting examples. So at Union Station we've
had a 49% increase in ridership since 2011, and at the Denver airport we've had a 44% increase
since the University of Colorado A Line opened.
So the third goal is to improve transportation options and choices. So this metric is travel time of
variability, and there's a lot going on in this chart so I'm going to break it down. So this is for
2017, and it's comparing transit and auto travel times. And this is from the end of line stations
into downtown. So you can see those end of line stations are labeled on the bottom of the chart
there. So the numbers that are on this chart all represent minutes of travel time. The dark color on
the bottom of the chart represents travel time, and the lighter color on top is variability.
So if you need to get to a meeting at 8:00 AM, and you want to make sure you're going to be on
time, then that's roughly the amount of time you would budget to make sure you get there. So
you can, also, see transit variability on lines that have exclusive right of way is actually very low.
So if we just look in at one of the examples, say, the mineral station. The travel time for transit is
29 minutes. And, remember, this is to 16th in California so those that go into Union Station
would be a little different. But-- and then auto travel time is 33 minutes. And the variability for
that CD Line ridership is 4 minutes whereas for driving. It's about 24 minutes, which is quite a
bit more. So if you look at all of these, about five of the seven corridors are very competitive
with driving.
So next, we looked at travel to park and rides. That map on the left is a heat map showing where
park and ride users live. The darker areas are higher concentrations of park and ride users. So
when we looked at the numbers, about 25% of our trips are less than two miles long which, in
some future scenario, could become maybe more bike trips if our park and rides go up in
utilization. Yeah. And then one more thing is about 93% of our park and ride users live in the
RTD District. So only about 7% coming from out of District.
So just looking forward, we're trying to move our data online to have it more accessible for you
all, and for stakeholders, and the public. So that's something we're working on. So that's it. Let
me know if you have any questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Well-- well, we do have questions and comments. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I wonder if you've seen any changes since there's been some
legislative changes on multi-family housing being sold as condos versus all apartments?
CARLY MACIAS: We didn't look at that, specifically, but I do think that could be an interesting
metric to look at.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Next up is Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. That was a really interesting report, and I thought it was
enlightening. And I'm wondering I think about the CAC, or the Youth Advisory Council or
Committee. These are some wonderful bits of information that could be shared with the
community in a local engagement.
And I'm wondering, do you see a way that your department can convey this information to the
CAC so that they could then go out into their local communities and explain these things? And
maybe it's something you go to service organizations, like, Rotary, Lions, Kiwanis, in those local
areas. And maybe you, along with the CAC, representative or something like that, I think that
when more and more businesses understand that their employees can travel safely in 29 minutes
rather than 33 driving. And it's not just the driving, they think you're a lot safer, it's more reliable,
you can depend on things more so, I mean, do you have a plan to convey this information to the
public?
CARLY MACIAS: I think that's something we've been working on, because we want this
information to get out more and to be useful since we do spend money to do this study, just to
maximize the benefits.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: What? How much cash did you spend on that?
CARLY MACIAS: So we do work with consultants on this project, and it was about $50,000, I
think, for this year.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sign me up, man.
CARLY MACIAS: They help us with these metrics and developing the presentation.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But-- OK. So-CARLY MACIAS: I think that is a great idea. It should go to the CAC.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. So maybe the communications and marketing department could
work in a synergistic way with your department, and start pumping out the good news of what
RTD provides to the District.

CARLY MACIAS: We have been meeting with them, and I think that is one of our goals. But I
think the CAC idea is great.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, you guys are doing great things all the time, and it's not getting out
there, and its a shame because you should be applauded for the hard work and effort that you do.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Great minds think alike, Director Folska. I'm on the exact same track.
I was going to ask you, particularly, this travel time in variability, which is a little hard to
understand, but maybe with some additional text, I would like to see that right up on the RTD
website, like, tomorrow. And if you will send me that link, I will put it up on the Denver regional
mobility and access site, because this is the kind of thing that we need to tell people more. They
need to know that-- I, actually, recently was in a meeting where I said to somebody, you don't
like what we're doing, don't ride. Drive your car, contribute to pollution, don't be able to text
while you're driving, sit on I-36 in traffic, pay the gas, pay the insurance.
You know, all of those are reasons that, in fact, you could get on, in that case, it was the Flat Iron
Flyer, and you could text away and you could sit in comfort, and you would have less time spent.
But we need to convey that, you know. We know that, but that dynamic I'm going to, also,
suggest that you send the same chart right to the downtown Denver Economic Development
Committee, who would love to have this, and would put this right in their pocket that they give
to new businesses who are looking to come here. You could probably even send it to the
Economic Development Council in-- where are you, south metro? Yeah. We know somebody
there.
But, yeah, this is great work. Thank you very much for it. Let's get it out. Thank you, Director
Folska, for the same idea.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So, yeah, this is good stuff. The timing variability chart is something I
tell everybody. You might be able to get there, but the reliability of I25, I70 is so great you have
to build that budget, and I don't think you can beat the reliability of any component of our rail
system.
The first slide that has the vehicle miles traveled. That's also very important to us, because all
those cars on the road are slowing down to zero and the 31, and pick a bus route that makes it
more difficult. Which is why I think the cities in the jurisdictions that we support are going
forward with efforts to improve our service through their capital improvement budgets and
programs.
So, anyway, so-- thanks for this. This will help me have something to show somebody when I'm
talking to them about the benefits of riding any of our stuff. Any of their stuff, because it's the
people's system. That's it. Thanks.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'll call on myself. OK. You know, I have the same comment that I
made last year probably to the same effect.
Last year, also, we did not show an improvement in transit share of ridership. And, to me, I
mean, that's what I look for. It's like an elephant in the room that isn't being addressed. And I'm
wondering-- I wondered it last year. Didn't happen, but if there wouldn't be some way to just
have a paragraph saying, yeah, we know. You know, it went down, sorry. And it's not
nationwide trend, it's happening because of XYZ, and here's what we're doing to push back.
Because without saying that, it's just sitting there like, oh, you spent all this money and you
didn't get an increase in your ridership share. I think I would like to see it addressed.
And just one other little point. When you showed housing starts and they were so increased, can
you show-- I mean, do the facts show that where the housing starts have increased, we've
increased transit? I mean, is there any correlation and can we show that?
CARLY MACIAS: For that metric, we looked at an MSA level, which is kind of the big
metropolitan area. So for that specific source, we could not do that. That is something you could
do, and I think it could be really interesting. So we could explore that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. That's it for me. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I think there's a lot of really good information in here, and I agree
that it could be marketed very effectively. But not to be a wet blanket, 59% of our transit usage is
bus. And your transit versus auto time comparison for reliability is strictly with rail compared to
car. And the truth of the matter is that our buses operate in congestion, and the reliability that I've
heard from some of my constituents is it's-- you know, the bus service just isn't reliable enough,
nor is-- nor are our special services, such as call and ride. And I think that if you're going to put
that share of transit up there, but then you don't even talk about the bus equation later on, is a
little bit misleading. There's a lot of really good stuff about the rail corridors, but the reality is we
have a whole system that we have to look at and see where we can try and improve some of that
performance.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much. I got this idea listening to Director Walker. In
congestion and reliability and timeliness and safety and being able to text and all of that, is it at
all possible to partner with a company like "Ways?" That's an app you put on your phone to
know the congestion. But say you're at home, right? And you can compare through a partnership
with RTD and "Ways", or something like "Ways," where you can say, all right. OK. Well, now I
can see-- or, you know, Uber, you know where they're going on the map and you can kind of
really see them in real time. So you could look at the-- so it's kind of like a make or buy decision.
Am I going to make my own way there in my car, or am I going to buy my ride and, you know,
so you can see the congestion, who's moving faster in real time on your phone. Can you make an
app like that?
CARLY MACIAS: I personally cannot.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But you can find someone that can.
CARLY MACIAS: I think that's a really interesting idea.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That be fun.
CARLY MACIAS: Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It'd be like so engaging. OK. I guess that's it.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to take the microphone to
say I truly appreciate very much the tremendous report that has been put together by you and
your team. This-- this brief summary of it that you have is very interesting, but then the full
report is actually attached that has all the footnotes and the sources, and that explains how you
got those particular data, and how we can, if we wish to, replicate some of that. It was a really
very, very good exercise. I do appreciate it.
I think some of the constructive comments that have been made about changes in terms of
additional information can be looked at in the future, but I just really want to commend you on
this terrific product now, and suggest as Director Williams and others have said that, yes, we
should get this out in the community big time so they can see. Because it's good information, and
it's been well presented. Nice graphics, nice style, concise, and I think cogent in terms of the
presentation. So thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Anderson, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. Does the transit travel time include travel to the station
in your own vehicle?
CARLY MACIAS: So, unfortunately, there's not a great way of measuring someone's trip from
their house because everyone lives somewhere different. So we started the trip at that end of line
station, and that's where we're comparing from. So that is a challenge that we can't really
represent that in the numbers.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: If you send this out, I think you need to be sure and let people know
that it's from the station, and not from home. Because it sort of skews the times a bit. And other
than that, I can certainly see the issues that Director Menten has with the W line. So thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess, first off, I didn't know there were this many
varie-- that there was this much variety in infographics. This is just-- every page is something
different, isn't it? And they're all very, very good infographics. But, I guess, the follow onto

Director Anderson's comment on the travel times, I'm guessing that the worst variability is taken
it like maybe 5 to 6 PM.
CARLY MACIAS: So this is, actually, a morning commute, because it's into downtown.
KEN MIHALIK: Downtown. OK. So I didn't say-- I-- should have been labeled better. It just
may help to say that that outside Lincoln station, that that 34 minutes is what window of time
that covers.
CARLY MACIAS: Right. Yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: And it's during the AM peak.
CARLY MACIAS: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Sure, AM peak. That's all I got. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. There's no one else in the queue so that's going to end this update.
Thank you very much. Very interesting. Yeah. And that brings us to other matters. Are there any
other matters that the directors want to raise? OK. The next meeting date for this committee is
October 2, 2018. And we can't adjourn yet. We have executive session that we have to go into.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Oh, do you need a break? OK. Well, I think we should make the motion, take the break, and
everybody-- all right. All right. OK. I will entertain a motion to move into-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
BOARD MEMBER: [INAUDIBLE]
JUDY LUBOW: No, no, that's not that-- well, wait. Yeah, you don't even know what it's about
but--OK. I will entertain a motion to move into executive session for the purpose of discussing
Denver transit partners dispute resolution process and negotiations. See CRS 24-6-402, Sub 4,
Sub B, conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions. And CRS-24- 6-402(4)(e) small I. Think it's i. Determining
positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations. Developing strategy for
negotiations, and instructing negotiators.
Would the mover and the secondary please tell me who they are.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I'm the mover. Peggy is the second.

So, OK. Is there a discussion on this motion? No. OK. Can the mover and seconder place their
votes in the electronic boardroom. Well, OK.
OK. So-- hello. It seems that there's a problem in terms of who the mover is and getting this
done.
DOUG TISDALE: It actually just flipped and said Director Catlin is the mover and Director
Folska is the seconder.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'll accept it just to accelerate this process.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK. All right. And let's vote. Yes. And Director Anderson, please vote.
OK. OK. The Yes votes are 13, and no votes, people who aren't voting, are 2.
OK. So right now we're going to take a break to give ourselves five minutes and when we-- when
we come back, we're going to make sure that only the people who belong in the room will be in
the room. Thank you.
[AUDIO OUT]

