Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, March 14, 2007
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 22, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee
Meeting held on Wednesday, March 14, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T &
D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Co-Chairs McMullen and Kinton
Directors; Daly, Quinlan, Tayer, Ruchman, and Yamrick

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jennifer Ross-Amato, Ron Dodsworth, David Genova, Lou
Ha, Manuel Herrera, Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack, Caitlin Magee, Bill Porter,
Pat Pugh, Scott Reed, Dean Shaklee, John Tarbert

Others:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Rod Stambaugh, Dean Rizzuto, George
Robison, Tex Elam, Chris Marko

Call to Order:
I.

****
Co-Chair Kinton called the meeting to order at 5:10 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Award Contract to provide and install Mobile Digital Video Recording System in
Mall Shuttle Buses – David Genova, Manager of Safety, presented this item.
Mall shuttles are not currently equipped with any video surveillance. This RFP
was advertised in December of 2006. Funding for this action comes from a
Homeland Security Grant. Security cameras would be installed on 36 mall
shuttle buses which is the total fleet.
Originally the contract called for 10% DBE/SBE goal. Because this contract is

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, March 14, 2007
Page 2 of 5
funded by federal money, certified DBE firms must be used.
renegotiated the contract with a 5% DBE/SBE goal.

The District

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a
contract to Transit Marketing Group, a Boulder, Colorado company representing
GE Security Inc, the low cost, most responsive, responsible and qualified
proposer for the purchase of a mobile digital video recording system (security
camera) to be installed in the Mall shuttle buses. The system is comprised of
seven cameras that record events into a hard drive. The system is capable of
transmitting video data on demand wirelessly to a computer server at Platte
operating division and at Civic Center Station. The total cost for the project is
$390,868.78. The funding for this contract is provided by a grant from the US
Department of Homeland Security.
Motion:

Director McMullen moved to
forward this item on to the full
Board at the March 27, 2007,
Board meeting.

Second:

Director Tayer seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:



The motion passed unanimously.

Express Day Pass – Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Contracted &
Customer Services, gave this update. In 2006 RTD instituted day passes for
the regional and local fare zones. Since the opening of the Southeast Light Rail
line, hotels in the Southeast Corridor have been requesting day passes for the
Express fare zone. These hotels often serve as overflow hotels for the Denver
Convention Center and they would like to have a pass they could offer to hotel
guests. The rate for the express day pass will be $7.75 which keeps the same
price formulation as the regional and local passes.
Director Quinlan inquired about purchase of bulk day passes. Bruce Abel
responded that there is not a provision for bulk purchases at this time. Staff is
working on a recommendation that would allow for this. Staff is also working
on a recommendation for creating of a multi-day pass. There is a major
convention coming to Denver on May 12. Staff would like to have the Express
Day Pass available.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, March 14, 2007
Page 3 of 5
that the Board of Director’s authorize the implementation of an Express Day
Pass in the amount of $7.75 per day as part of RTD’s fare media program.
Motion:

Director McMullen moved to
forward this item on to the full
Board at the March 27, 2007,
Board meeting.

Second:

Director Daly seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

The motion passed unanimously.

Advertising Policy, Video Games – George Robison, Director of the Parents Television
Council addressed the Committee. Mr. Robison expressed concern over the District
advertising video games rated “M” or “AO”. He would like to see these types of
advertisements eliminated. Marla Lien, General Counsel, spoke about this issue. She
introduced Jennifer Ross-Amato, Assistant General Counsel. Ms. Lien and Ms. RossAmato have been working on this issue since the February 20, 2007 Board Meeting
where Mr. Robison first addressed the Board about this issue.
Marla Lien spoke about what kinds of restrictions RTD can put on advertising. For RTD
to limit advertising, RTD would have to opt out of being a “public forum” to restrict this
type of advertising. RTD allows commercial, political, and public service advertising as
long as there are clear indications of who is paying for the advertisement (in the case of
political and public service announcements). At the present time, RTD’s advertising
policy is open as long as it contains proper endorsements (if it is political or social
advertising) and the ad itself is not obscene or offensive. The sides/interiors of buses,
light rail trains, and the transit stations are considered “a public forum” because RTD
does not place limits on advertising. Because of this, RTD can not restrict advertising
based on content except in very limited circumstances. RTD would have to reject
alcohol, political, and public service announcements to move out of “a public forum”.
A number of courts have ruled the video games are not commercial speech but First
Amendment speech like books, music, and movies.
Marla Lien said that the Board has several options: (1) Withdraw from a public forum or
(2) Don’t do anything and hope that this issue doesn’t come up again (the safest legal
route) or (3) If the Board decides to go ahead, they will have to have a very narrow
restriction on what is acceptable and see if there is a challenge. If there was a
challenge, RTD would have to pay court fees.
Director Ruchman spoke in support of restricting advertising on these games. Co-chair

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, March 14, 2007
Page 4 of 5
Kinton asked how RTD could withdraw from the public forum. Marla Lien responded
that RTD would have to rewrite the advertising policy and drop all political and public
service announcements. Pat Pugh, Senior Manager of Marketing, said that limiting
advertising would affect revenues. She suggested bringing in Lamar advertising to
discuss this impact.
Motion:

Director Quinlan made a
motion that RTD will not
advertise any video games
that are unrated, rated M or
AO.

Second:

Director Yamrick seconded
the motion.

Vote
On Motion:

The motion passed on a 4-3
Vote with Directors Kinton,
Quinlan,
Ruchman
and
Yamrick
in
favor
and
Directors Daly, Tayer,
and McMullen opposed.

Staff will prepare a recommended action for the March 27, 2007 Board Meeting.
III.

Efforts to Increase Off Peak Light Rail Ridership - Director Quinlan asked if the
District is partnering with other organizations to help boost ridership during the
evening, weekends, and mid day. Staff will come back with a report for the next
meeting.

IV.

Security Proposal for 15/15L – John Tarbert, Manager of Security, gave this update.
Wackenhut began doing random checks on the 15/15L on the 9th of March. Hours and
days of the week vary for these checks. The District is using the mobile patrol to do
security ride checks, security check points, and inspections of bus stops along the
Colfax corridor. A security ride check – an officer gets on a bus and is followed by the
patrol unit, the officer will check bus stops along the route as well. Also, officers will
wait at a bus stop and check every bus that comes through that stop. Bus operators
are very pleased with this program. Co-chair McMullen stated his appreciation for this
program as well as the light rail fare enforcement program. Director Ruchman asked if
this was affecting Security in other areas of the system. John Tarbert said that is a just
a few days a week, right now they are concentrating on Friday and Saturday nights.

V.

Unlimited Access Pass Study Group – Bruce Abel spoke to this item. There are many
different types of passes that the District provides. Questions have arisen relative to
price points, utilizations, etc. The District would like to put together a study group to

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, March 14, 2007
Page 5 of 5
review the passes. Staff recommends that the group be made up of a variety of
stakeholders from RTD Board members and staff to representatives from neighborhood
groups, TMOs, Boulder, Downtown Denver Business Partnership, CU Boulder, and the
University of Denver to analyze existing unlimited pass products and talk about
potential modifications.
Motion:

Director Tayer made a
motion to move forward
with the study group.

Second:

Director McMullen
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed
unanimously.

VI.

Staffing Update – Manuel Herrera, Senior Manager, Human Resources gave a staffing
update. A handout on staffing was distributed to the Committee. The District is down
26 operators and 14 down on mechanics, light rail mechanics 18 down (7 being tested
tomorrow). Director Ruchman asked for a report on retention of staff after one year.
This will be given at the next meeting. There was a discussion regarding the
performance code. Co-chair McMullen was concerned about several aspects of the
policy. Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager, Administration gave a clarification
of the policy and its intent. Mr. Washington said that fare evasion is covered in the
Trailblazer. The personnel policy covers intentional mismanagement of fare collection.
Phil Washington said that in the last ten years, the District has not disciplined a driver
about a fare dispute under the performance code.

VII.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VIII.

Cell Phone Transactions – Rod Stambaugh from FEEDtribes gave a presentation on
using a cell phone to pay for a variety of services and discussed how it may be
advantageous to the District.

IX.

Next Meeting Date
The next meeting date will be Wednesday, April 11, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

X.

Adjournment
Hearing no objections, Co-Chair Kinton adjourned the meeting at 6:41 p.m.

