2024-03-26 - Board Meeting
Part 1
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening, everyone. I will now call the Tuesday, March 26 RTD Board meeting to
order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respect everyone joining here
remotely to please remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you, everyone, for joining us this evening. As our Board has moved to in-person meetings for our
monthly gatherings, please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors have continued
to be held remotely via Zoom and have been audio and video recorded, and the unofficial meetings are
posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit RTD-Denver.com. And a live stream of
this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office
@RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can
be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to have access to a live transcript of
this meeting in Spanish.
At this time, I'll now move to the Pledge of Allegiance. And I will ask Second Vice Chair Guissinger to please
lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
[AUDIO OUT]

Thank you. At this time, I'll now turn to Director Harwick. Will you please read the land acknowledgment?
IAN HARWICK: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains
operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that
are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment
demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the native and all
historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we
move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you Director Harwick. I will now call the roll. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICAHEL GUZMAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis.
JAMIE LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal. Director Rosenthal has informed me he's in transit. We'll note for
the record when he is here. Director Ruscha. Director Sloan.
MAJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am also present. That is 13 present, two absent. And we'll note
for the record when we are joined. We do have a quorum. At this time, I'll now ask Director Dishell, if you
would please read aloud the statement of employee appreciation.
BOBBY DISHELL: The Regional Transportation District Board of Directors recognizes that RTD's dedicated
workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every day, RTD employees do extraordinary things to make lives
better through connections. We honor their work of delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the
community, especially demonstrated during difficult and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the
Board of Directors demonstrate our profound gratitude, commitment, and support toward all RTD
employees.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. We'll now move to the section of our agenda that is retiree
awards. This is one of the many rewarding duties of serving on this Board of Directors, is to be here at a

time when we recognize the departure and retiring of some of our great employees who have moved on
from RTD.
At this time, I'd like to read the names of some of our employees who have retired since January. We'll hold
applause until the end and acknowledge those who are present. Phillip Eberl, General Superintendent, light
rail vehicle maintenance, 40 years. Robbie Hunter, Senior Equipment Engineer, 30 years.
Neal Mondschein, Supervisor Network Engineer, 29 years. Carrie Mosbarger, Light Rail Field Supervisor,
20 years. Alex Ortiz, Bus Instructor and Operator, 25 years. Alberto Toledo, Bus Operator, 23 years. Dan
Williams, Bus Operator, 24 years. Altogether, some applause acknowledging our great employers.
[APPLAUSE]

And I believe that we do have one retiree in attendance this evening. Mr. Jensen, would you please
introduce Mr. Eberl please? The floor is yours.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, I will. Thank you. Good evening. I'm Dave Jensen, the Assistant General Manager of
Rail Operations. And it is my distinct honor and privilege tonight-- it's A bittersweet moment for us, sweet
that Mr. Eberl has the opportunity to retire and move on to the next chapter, bitter for us as we will miss him
dearly.
Mr. Eberl is a man of integrity, a man of strength, a man of character. He has fulfilled his duties. And it's
amazing and astounding that he has committed 40 years to public service and to RTD. We are incredibly
grateful for the service he provided. We may be able to replace the position with people that can do tasks
and roles and take on responsibilities, but we won't be able to replace him. It is my honor to introduce to
you Mr. Phillip Eberl.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Eberl, if you'd like to make any comments, we would love to hear from you, sir.
PHILLIP EBERL: I just want to say thank you. I'm very honored. And this is a family. This is so much who I
am is what I do. It's kind of scary. I don't know if I paid attention to really knowing who I was because I was
just in the role of working here.
And I did want to make a comment. Someone asked me what my best achievement was, and that was
deciding to apply for RTD. That was my best achievement. That was in '83. And so I applied for RTD. And
then when I came, starting at the Alameda Division, and then when I went to East Metro and then Light
Rail, during that entire time, I've received nothing as an employee at the entry level and a supervisor,
manager, everything position I've had, nothing but support from my leaders, my peers, and my employees.
I just have received support. And so it went on right here to now.
So the closing out of this, Director Lewis came over, shook my hand. And the recognition, the standing
ovation and the folks in the audience that recognized who I came over. And that support, down to you
pronounce my name right-- who does that? Nobody in my life pronounces my name correctly. And so thank

you very much. It's been an honor. And it makes it hard to leave. But I must leave. It's time for me to go. I
need to go. So thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]

DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. Phil, I want to say
thank you so much for all you have done for the agency. I can recall when I first started here, and I would
go over to Elati, and we had conversations about those cloth-covered seats at the Rail Rodeo, how you
enjoyed it so much, and the cowboy hat.
All of those things are everlasting memories, and you have left an indelible mark on this organization. And
I want to publicly acknowledge your 40 years of service here to the agency and wish you the best in the
next 40 and then some.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments, Ms. Johnson.
PHILLIP EBERL: Thank you very much, Debra.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We are going to take just a brief minute and a half break. Everybody, stay right where
you are. We're going to take a brief picture. Ms. Johnson and Mr. Jensen, we have a plaque to present to
Mr. Eberl here. So, everyone, just remain seated. We'll be back in just a moment.
[AUDIO OUT]

All right, thank you, everybody. Thanks again, Mr. Eberl, 40 years. It's a privilege to serve on this Board,
but we rotate. We're in and out here. We have a lot of people part of the RTD family that are here for a very
long time. So we thank you for your service and your dedication to our community.
All right, I'm under the understanding that unfortunately the rest of our retirees were unable to join us this
evening. But I'll just briefly pause to make sure that that is the case. Great. We certainly all collectively
would like to thank all of them for their hard work, their commitment, their dedication not just to RTD but to
the customers and riders of RTD and to this community.
With that, we will now move on to the public participation period of our agenda, which is open to anyone
who would like to address the Board of Directors. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, inperson comments will go first, followed by those who are participating remotely. For those attending in
person, please come up to the podium when your name is called.
If you have not already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I
call for any additional speakers. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not done so,
you can raise your virtual hand on Zoom, or you can press star-9 if you've dialed in by phone. Staff will

unmute you when it is your turn to speak. And if you are dialed in, you may press star-6 to toggle your mute
settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. And if you do not wish to
be recorded, you can submit your comments in writing to the Board Office. If any speaker has
documentation or reference materials for the Board or if any member of the public would like to submit
written comments, you may email those materials or those comments to the Board Office at the same email
address announced earlier-- we say it often-- RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During this time, the Board does not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email that same email address at the RTD Board
Office. Speakers should please begin their remarks by stating their names. And please, you will have three
minutes to provide your comments.
Before I actually ask for our first speaker, I do want to take a moment to acknowledge the significant public
feedback that RTD staff and the RTD Board have received to this date on the proposed May 2024 service
changes that were discussed at the Operations and Safety Committee. I want to recognize our staff for their
efforts and thank them for taking this feedback seriously and working together to revisit the initial proposal.
I also would really like to thank the public for engaging and leveraging your opportunity to use your voice
to RTD's Board and staff to seek the changes that are more desirable.
As recommended by the Operations and Safety Committee, the Board will consider the proposal later this
evening for the May 2024 service changes. However, there is also a staff amendment that will be proposed
to those May 2024 service changes that calls for service to remain intact until midnight Sunday through
Thursday as well as until 2:00 AM Fridays and Saturdays for most light rail routes.
We will cover those changes in detail when we reach that section. But, again, we will be looking at a staff
amendment for changes to the light rail late night service. As we've had a number of individuals registered
to speak this evening on the topic of the May 2024 service changes, I wanted to ensure that everyone was
aware as we solicit input from the public.
With that being said, I would now like to start the public comment section, beginning first with those who
are in person and those who have signed up to speak. I will start with Joel Noble. You can push the-- there's
a button that says Push. Push that, and go ahead.
JOHN NOBLE: Green. All right. Good evening, Board. My name is Joel Noble. I live in Denver. I've been a
multimodal transportation advocate for a long time. In fact, my advocacy began on Tuesday, January 17,
1995 in this room when I joined more than 150 others when the RTD Board was on the cusp of canceling
light rail plans and refusing already awarded federal light rail grants.
Now years later, I was considerably dismayed this month to learn that the light rail cuts to eliminate weekday
late evening service presented to the public and in the narrative letter to the RTD's Board Committees, as
combined with the downtown loop project and the coping panel project impacts, were, in fact, proposals to
permanently cut late evening service for all light rail.
This took a lot of digging for me as a member of the public to confirm. RTD didn't exactly go out of its way
to publicize this huge and fundamental shift to what the region has come to rely on as the light rail portion
of the core transit network's span of service. I understand that the Board and staff, based on late

understanding coming to the city of Denver and to the community, have walked back most but not all of
these service span cuts in what you're considering tonight. Thank you.
I have two requests for the RTD Board. First, please work with staff to learn from other agencies how they
maintain their light rail networks with broad span of service that riders expect from these core routes. Adopt
what you learn. Staff the roles appropriately. And restore and maintain full spans of service.
Second, please dig into what happened here. How could such a fundamental change to the span of service
for all light rail lines be proposed without being highlighted and made it all the way through committee and
to the Board without informed community engagement and informed conversation with municipal partners
and clear and specific communication on this change with the public?
Dig into what happened here. It shouldn't happen this way. It shouldn't feel sneaky. And it shouldn't take so
much digging from a multimodal advocate to figure out what was really being proposed. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. We will next move to Gary Van Dorn.
GARY VAN DORN: Good evening. My name is Gary Van Dorn. I reside in district A. The National
Federation of the Blind of Colorado categorically opposes any reductions in service for any reason. It
concerns us greatly because many of us blind people, the students at our Colorado Center for the Blind
who come here for orientation and mobility training and life skills training as blind people depend upon RTD.
In fact, RTD is a deep core of our training. Any reduction in service harms our community, harms our ability
to travel about, even if you do offer Access-on-Demand. My fear-- and I've addressed this with the General
Manager-- is that the recent reduction in fares would cause a service reduction.
And at this point, it appears to me as though I'm right. I'd like RTD to address that. I'd like to see your
budgetary numbers concerning how you came about with these service reduction cuts and also with
Access-on-Demand on making your changes.
So I'd like to see the figures on how this is done. Or perhaps maybe we should ask the state to audit to take
a look at the service reductions and how they've affected your ability to raise revenue appropriately to run
this very vast and diverse system. So I appreciate any discussions with the General Manager concerning
this issue. And if necessary, we may have to raise fares. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. We'll now next move to our next speaker, Olivia Dorencz.
OLIVIA DORENCZ: Hi. My name is Olivia Dorencz. I live in Denver, and I am also a part of Greater Denver
Transit. I also wanted to speak on the proposed service changes. I wanted to express my concern about
the proposed 60-minute frequencies on the E line and the H line over the summer. I fear that this frequency
is too low and practically makes these lines unusable, especially for those who need to transfer to or from
another rail or bus line.
I live along the 12 bus route and sometimes use it to get to the E line, primarily to get to the Tech Center
and the south suburbs. So substituting a bus route in place of the E line isn't really an option. It can already
be kind of a gamble for how long I'll have to wait for a transfer. Sometimes it's five minutes. Sometimes it's
20 minutes.
With these changes, I could be waiting an hour after already waiting for a bus that only runs every 30
minutes. Now this journey that would take 15 minutes in a car is taking over an hour and a half potentially.

It becomes nearly impossible to use the light rail for anything that's time dependent or anything that you
have to do consistently.
I also worry that this has the potential to affect ridership not just this summer but going into the future as
well. As the light rail becomes more and more unreliable, people will turn to other options like getting a bike
or an e-bike or buying a car or moving somewhere that has transit they can rely on.
Ridership on the E and H lines has already been consistently down since last summer, and ending
construction didn't bring people back. People have clearly lost faith in their ability to use these lines to get
where they're going. And making service changes that are worse and at lower frequencies than they were
last summer is going to completely destroy any remaining amount of trust people have in the system.
I do think a lot of the loss of faith is also worsened by inaccurate schedules and communication. Last
summer, I remember getting to Union Station in the evening to see that the display said a train would be
coming in the next couple of minutes, only to wait and wait and wait. I ended up giving up and taking the
bus home. But I probably wasted half an hour waiting because the schedule wasn't communicated
anywhere.
Especially where trains are going to be single tracked, the time between those points needs to be measured
accurately so that realistic schedules can be created, and delays need to be communicated when they
happen, not later. People have already lost faith in the light rail, and I understand that this work needs to
be done. But 60-minute frequencies and poor communication of delays is already hurting ridership and is
just going to hurt it even worse going forward. There has to be a better alternative here. Thank you for your
time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. I'd like to recognize for the sake of the record that we are
also joined now by Director Rosenthal, with 14 directors present. Thank you. We'll now move to our next
speaker, Anthony DuPont.
ANTHONY DUPONT: Hello. My name is Anthony. I want to express some concerns over the 60-minute
light rail as well. I want to say that it also feels that it is too long, where I can't really reliably use it anymore
to get to anywhere that is time dependent as well. And more importantly, I feel like the past four years of
riding RTD has been a pretty negative experience overall.
I've been in Colorado for 18 years now. And I've ridden RTD for a very long time. I used to go to the station,
and I had a few lines that would overlap with each other. And I never really had to think about when the
next train would come because I knew there would be one within 15, 20-ish minutes. And that was fine for
me back then. And I started using it daily to commute to school. And that was a fine experience as well.
But the past four years have felt awful in terms of trains that never show up. I don't know if this is a unique
experience to me. I doubt it. But too many times I've had trains that are on the schedule to show up, they
are advertised at the station, they show up on the RTD app, and they simply don't. There are some that
there's an alert that tells you, and the train does show up. And there's simply too many inconsistencies.
So now with light rails that are every 60 minutes, I can't trust it. If I have to get to somewhere that is very
important for me to be there at a specific time, I can't risk going to the station and having a train not show
up. I'm going to drive. And I understand that the 60 minutes is due to some maintenance and projects and
constructions, and this has been addressed as the best solution.

But even if it is the best solution, it feels bad. It feels like during these time, I don't really have-- I don't have
a reason to use RTD right now because I will either wait upwards of two hours if a train doesn't show up,
and I have to wait another hour again. Yeah, overall, the past four years have felt pretty bad. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Now, next, we move to our next speaker, Thomas Topero.
THOMAS TOPERO: Good evening. My name is Thomas Topero. I'm a resident of District A. And I'm here
with Greater Denver Transit. There are two conditions that the scheduling department has made life for
light rail passengers especially more challenging, despite the capability of MOW and operators-- overnight
work on the alignment and drastic reduction in service due to the coping panel project.
As a former light rail operator, it seems that the scheduling department has chosen to take an easy way out
rather than creating a schedule that the operators are trained and up to the task of working with MOW to
execute. A side issue of insufficient qualified MOW personnel also needs to be addressed, and the
upcoming CBA negotiations will be an important part of that.
Now, granted, there are increased safety concerns and times when not having trains run on portions of the
alignment are required for certain work to be done. In most cases, this can be scheduled and options
executed to avoid disruptions to service, even if moving at restricted speed and/or running in reverse is
required.
Scheduling is quite capable of creating a plan to allow for trains to operate at 15-minute intervals along the
southeast corridor while the coping project is underway and at five minute intervals between Broadway and
Union Station. Control is capable of executing the plan and communicating to the operators.
Field supervisors are capable of assisting passengers and operators to keep the trains moving in a way
that is highly effective. District supervisors are capable of communicating the details of the plan and the
conditions of the day to the operators. MOW is capable of establishing a safe work environment or
workspace for contractors and supporting movement through the work zone.
Training is capable of ensuring that all operators understand and are prepared for these conditions. TSOs
and TSSs and transit police are capable of creating a safe space for passengers to use for their journeys.
With all these resources expended to create this capable workforce, are we just going to sit back and not
ask or expect them to work at the high level they are trained, capable, and expect to work at?
Operators are trained and very capable to deal with these conditions and should be supported to operate
safely and effectively when non-standard conditions arise. These are cultural issues that have been
devolving for years. Let's raise the bar and provide the resources to let everyone perform at the highest
level they are trained and capable of for the benefit of the whole reason RTD supposedly exists-- people
who move people. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Our next speaker will be Nate Trela.
NATE TRELA: I'm Nate Trela. I live in Englewood. I'm also here as-- I'm a Board member of the Blind
Parents Division of the National Federation of Blind of Colorado. I spoke at the last Board meeting about
concerns about the changes with the Access-on-Demand program and wanted to speak here today to
follow up on some of those changes and talk a little bit more about what's happening.

All Access-on-Demand users should have received the email about the peer review and the comment form- and the Paratransit Committee Advisory Committee held those-- will be working on the issues looking at
how to improve our paratransit system, and definitely will be participating through those.
The email said the peer review that's happening was disclosed as a matter of transparency. And I can
appreciate that. But I also don't think that siloing the conversation in comment forms online and a advisory
committee that is very hard to locate and participate in is the best way to have a transparent conversation.
So I wanted to raise a few questions today that hopefully we can get some answers to in a follow-up here
since I know the Board cannot address these right now. First off, I would like to know if there's been any
analysis done about the financial impact of allowing multiple-stop trips and Access-on-Demand versus only
allowing single-stop trips. I know the plural of anecdotes is not data. But anecdotally, I have talked to quite
a few people who sit there, and we can look at our receipts and see how much more RTD is paying by
separating these trips out instead of allowing multiple-stop short trips.
Secondly, there has been an emphasis made on equity being an issue for not allowing multiple-stop trips.
It's vaguely been cited to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act. But I have not heard a specific citation about that.
And I'm certainly not a lawyer. But I don't see anywhere in the Civil Rights Act where disability comes into
play.
My understanding, the way I seem to read it, is it has to do with making sure you're allowing services
equitably through different communities, that you can't just cut off one neighborhood. So if someone can
please provide the specific citation of Title VI that is being used to justify this as well as the interpretation
that would prevent multiple-stop trips from being allowed, that would be very helpful as well.
Yeah, I don't doubt that you are trying to provide the best sustainable system we can provide-- that you can
provide for paratransit through Access-on-Demand, through all the different variations of it. I just think the
transparency to share the information and make clear to people what the decisions are based on will go a
long way towards helping everybody work on finding improvements to the program that will be sustainable.
One last thing, too-- I did say-- chose my words carefully at the beginning there. Everybody that participates
in Access-on-Demand should have received the email about the peer review. I know plenty of people that
didn't. I know plenty of people that did not receive the emails last year about the multiple-stop trip issue.
I also know that while people have been told that it should've been brought up during orientation and signup, that there's quite a few people that cannot point to ever being informed of it. Maybe it was provided in
an inaccessible manner. I'm hoping given the increasing importance placed on accessibility of information
by the state that RTD will do a better job of communicating these things going forward. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Much appreciated. Our next speaker and final one who
has signed up at this time is Miller Hudson.
MILLER HUDSON: Thank you. It's good to be with you again. I understand that you'll be having a discussion
later this evening regarding Senate Bill 184. And I wanted to comment on that and provide you some
background information.
I think that your perspective as you consider that legislation together with the pending legislation that would
repeal the elected Board, replace it with appointed members is that this is a multi-layered, sophisticated
coup. This is an intention to put current RTD out of business. And I think that that would be a huge mistake.

I was first approached about this late last year and then got the proponents-- tried to see if they could sell
me to be a supporter on it. And I want to share some of what I was told. Aside from replacing the Board
members, I think that the General Manager is at risk. I was told that she is incompetent, that she's left
millions of grant dollars on the table, that she's a bus girl and doesn't care about transit.
I said I doubted that that was true, Brenda-- I mean, Debra. And I've made some calls. And since then, your
reputation is sterling. If you do get thrown under the bus eventually, you won't be on the market for long.
And I think you've done a sterling job during the pandemic and the problems that RTD has had to face.
I wanted to bring to your attention a couple of other things. The key word in the repeal bill is expertise. They
say that the RTD Board doesn't offer expertise. Well, I'm not a big fan of expertise sometimes. And I think
that democracy depends upon grassroots input. And that's why I'm here.
I wanted to tell you, though, and remind you if you don't know that the legislature got fed up with RTD once
before in the '80s and created the Colorado Transit Authority to build light rail from downtown along I-25 to
the Tech Center. And they put George Wallace, a developer who did all the development down there, in
charge. And he said, I can build it. These people are so incompetent.
And I was working for Mayor Peña at the time running the Department of Excise and Licenses. And we
began to see businesses moving out of the corridor because of the tax that George Wallace was beginning
to impose on the businesses along I-25. I made public comments that it was damaging the economic health
in Denver and that any way the structure of the CTA was such that it was never going to be built.
I was called into the Mayor's Office and told that we're supporting this Miller, and we want everybody on
board. And although I had been a friend of Federico's for probably 12 years at that point, I said, you'll have
my resignation in the morning. You've made a mistake. There will never be a CTA. And two years later,
they had to fold it up with several million dollars in unpaid bills.
I think that the decision on the part of legislators to start this brawl about governance is, in fact, going to
jeopardize the entire front range rail project. There are 20 other projects-ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Hudson, apologies to interrupt. Would you mind wrapping in about 10 seconds here,
just at the top of the time?
MILLER HUDSON: I think you should listen to this. But I will wrap it up. And I will say this. There's no way
to amend this bill by tomorrow afternoon. I'm going to recommend tomorrow that it be tabled. I can tell you
this. There are people on the Front Range Board, there are people on the High Performance Board, and
folks at DRCOG who say, we've never had a meeting about this. We've never discussed it. And we never
saw the legislator until this week.
This thing needs to be tabled and all the key parties given an opportunity to decide. It's not needed. The
authority exists to do every one of the things in this bill today.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments.
SPEAKER 1: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, no problem. Thank you very much. That reaches the end of our speakers who
had signed up to speak. However, at this time, I'll now ask that if anybody had not spoken that is here in

person and would like to do so to please step up to the podium. I will call on you. You can state your name
and proceed. Our next speaker, please go ahead.
JAMES FLATTUM: All right, good evening, Board. My name is James Flattum. I'm [INAUDIBLE] going to
talk about the Northwest Rail project and elaborate [AUDIO OUT]
DOUG TISDALE: Microphone.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. We're working on it.
SPEAKER 2: There we go.
JAMES FLATTUM: Appreciate that. Thank you, Director Tisdale. My name is James Flattum. I'm with
Greater Denver Transit. My comments this evening are going to be discussing on the Northwest Rail project
as well as potential collaboration with the Front Range Passenger Rail District.
So what has been already discussed in a previous comment, the SB 24-184 Passenger Rail Bill has got a
lot of people talking, rightfully so. I think there are details in it that the Board is absolutely right to request
for further clarification, further discussion. Details matter.
But one thing, if we step back for a moment, about just the future and the vision for what this quarter will
look like, given the resources, the constrained resources that RTD has, given what commitments we have
from the Front Range Passenger Rail District, what funding could be available at the federal level is that
the future of this quarter is going to be a partnership. It's unrealistic to expect that RTD in any reasonable
time frame is going to be in a position to deliver the Northwest Rail project and certainly be prioritizing it
ahead of other absolutely essential projects that are also promised to voters.
But there is no doubt that the Northwest Rail project was promised to voters. So when we take a step back
and we look at what workstreams are in place, there are two teams of consultants, one being directed by
RTD, another being directed by CDOT, that are studying inner city, and the other is studying commuter rail
operations. It's going to be vital that their efforts are consolidated and coordinated.
And it appears to our group, Greater Denver Transit, that there is progress that can be made explicitly if
those efforts are coordinated and that there is still a ways to go to coordinate those efforts. Naturally, there
are going to be costs that are going to be attributable to a commuter rail system. There's going to be costs
that are only going to be attributable to an inner city rail system. And those are vital conversations to be
had.
But we need to make sure that the efforts to study these two work streams are going to be coordinated,
especially on the back side of this. One of the exciting parts of this picture is that if done properly, if executed
legally, and if all the stakeholders come together to collaborate on this project, RTD could benefit from a
substantial reduction in its financial commitment to a future project on the Northwest Rail corridor in
particular.
So this comes to us from an advocacy standpoint. And Greater Denver transit's perspective is that this
corridor has been promised. This corridor must be delivered. There are commuter rail benefits. There are
intercity rail benefits. And there are scopes that are unique to each. But we need to make sure that these
parallel efforts are going to be coordinated. So that exhausts my comments for this evening. Thank you all
very much.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. I'll ask if there's any other speakers in person to then
please come up to the podium, state your name and speak, please. Oh, and I'd like to note for the sake of
the record, prior to our next speaker, that we are joined by Director Ruscha. Thank you for joining. That's
all 15 directors present. Our next speaker, please go ahead. Start by stating your name. Thank you.
JOY NELSON: OK, this is on. My name is Joy Nelson. I am a legally blind person. I am from Colorado. I'm
a third generationer with blindness. I've been using RTD for years. My grandpa's in his 80s, been using-he used RTD. So has my grandma. So it's obviously been a huge necessity for our lives to be able to live
our lives as much as we possibly can, to be as normal as we can with the systems that we have.
So to mention some things about the changes for me, it already has taken two and a half hours to get from
home to work and back. But with the changes, that would take even much longer. And during COVID, it's
taken over three to four hours because of the changes in the timings. So that's my comment on that. I just
hope that you guys look at that.
But as far as Access-a-Ride on demand, you're allowed to have 120 rides through Access-a-Ride, and you
have to know the day before. Well, I need to be able to have a schedule for work that is allowed to be able
to make my schedule. And that's why Access-a-Ride on demand is mess. Also, for having a Access-a-Ride
on demand, we should be allowed to use multiple stops. There's no reason why I can't go to the post office,
drop off a piece of mail, pick up mail from the post office, in and out, go to a drop box.
There is no way I'm going to go mail my ballot, like I did the other day, and stand there for another 10, 20,
30 minutes to wait for another ride when I should be able to just drop it off and be able to continue on my
way. There's also no reason for RTD to have to pay additional taxes and fees that Uber Assists or Lyft-and then also use one of our 60 rides that we're allowed for a month.
Having multiple stops-- I understand that you're not going to run into King Soopers or something like that. I
understand it needs to be reasonable. But the reasonability, we can make some of those reasonable
choices to be able to have options and not spend taxpayer money. I work and am a taxpayer here and
waste that time and also waste one of my 60 trips to be able to just do that.
I can also say, yesterday morning, I ended up having cancel and had to pay more because it would say it
couldn't find a ride. And they were finding rides for 20 minutes. I had to wait an extra whole long time. I'm
willing to do that. And I'm very thankful for the $25 that you guys have given. Also, on top of that is that
sometimes if we add a ride, some of us-- I do-- I have to pay over another $10 more often to get to and
from work each day over the $25. So we're often paying the extra anyway. So I hope you guys reconsider.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Any other in-person speakers, if they could approach the
podium. Please state your name, and you'll have three minutes to address the Board.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good evening, everybody. It's Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. First off, we
basically spent a couple of days last week mobilizing the cavalry. We were going to come down here with
pitchforks and tell you all what we thought of a 10:00 PM close the light rail. So to Jessie Carter, RTD staff,
Board members, who ever got involved after the O&S Committee approved this, thank you.
I want to talk a bit about my day job. I'm working on a project for Caltrain, which-- and we have 62 civil
engineering sites along the peninsula between San Francisco and San Jose. Our train service is 4:30 AM
to 1:00 PM. Plus, we are overnight testing a brand-new train fleet. Balfour Beatty, which is the electrification
contractor that did your commuter rail and light rail, is all over the project.

It's difficult to get things done. I spent this afternoon before coming down here trying to get a three-night job
where we're going to lay 1,000 foot of fiber optic, go under the track with conduits. I wanted it done three
weekends from now. I got a rejection. I'm going to have to-- tomorrow, I will try again. I'm a bit tired today.
And it's because obviously apart from writing GDT input, I put in 15 requests to isolate the power into Balfour
Beatty.
Three came back with comments this morning. I don't complain. It's part of my job. So what we say is we
have a rigorous maintenance planning, coordination, safe systems of work plans, roadway workers. We've
got high rail trucks. We've got all these strategic things going on. It's what we do. We are not the only people
who run a light rail system with aging infrastructure that no doubt worries our senior management.
So what I would do is encourage you, seek as much peer help, advice. Reach out. Reach out to me. Reach
out to anybody who has a similar profession. I encourage you to do this because I think we can find the
solutions to get that balance to keep our system in a good state of repair, to do the work we need to do, but
also keep a train service that the public can use. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Any other speakers in person who would like to approach
the podium? Not seeing any, I'm going to turn to our Board Office Executive Manager Kroll. If you wouldn't
mind helping me please call on those who have raised their hand online. And for those online, when Mr.
Kroll calls upon your name, please feel free to speak once you are unmuted. And you will have three
minutes to speak. Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. The
first individual with their hand raised online is Molly McKinley. Ms. McKinley, you may proceed.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: OK, thank you. Good evening, Chair Davidson, Board members, and CEO and
General Manager Johnson. My name is Molly McKinley, and I'm the Policy Director for the Denver Streets
Partnership. I'm here this evening to express concerns about the proposed service changes on behalf of
the Denver Streets Partnership and the 42 organizations who signed on to a letter I shared with all of you
yesterday.
First, I'd like to start by expressing that we agree with you that safety is paramount and applaud you for
pursuing both major and ongoing maintenance projects that will ensure that the RTD system is a safe one.
I'd also like to echo Chair Davidson's remarks and thank RTD staff and leadership for responding to the
community by reducing the long-term light rail service span cuts.
However, even with the recently proposed revisions to the service changes, many of our concerns and
requests remain relevant. First, regarding planned maintenance that requires route detours, we urge RTD
to offer alternate bus accommodations to limit the disruption to riders. For instance, we'd like to see a bus
bridge to connect light rail riders from the 10th and Osage Station to Auraria Campus as the campus won't
be served by light rail during the downtown rail reconstruction project.
Failing to provide alternate accommodations erodes public trust in the reliability of public transit, and folks
who rely on public transit will suffer the most. We understand that RTD's workforce challenges may make
these types of accommodations difficult to execute at this time, as was the case during light rail service
disruptions last summer. If workforce remains a barrier to providing alternate bus accommodations during
planned service disruptions, we urge you to explore opportunities that could increase flexibility in the
workforce, like incentivizing light rail operators to be trained to operate buses.

Regarding routine maintenance, we urge RTD to continue to explore other opportunities to perform routine
maintenance without cutting service spans at all by learning from other transit agencies and exploring
creative solutions. Again, we strongly agree that safety is a priority but think that it should not be at odds
with service delivery unless there is no other way around it.
Thank you all so much for your consideration and all of the work you do to provide public transit service in
our region. We welcome the opportunity to discuss these issues further. As you know, we are deeply
invested in the success and long-term sustainability of RTD. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call on the next online
speaker and if that speaker could go ahead and proceed once acknowledged by Mr. Kroll, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes, the next speaker we have is Chaz Davis.
CHAZ DAVIS: Thank you. So my name is Chaz Davis, and I live on the Littleton side of Centennial with my
fiancée and two-year-old son. And I am also blind. And so I am speaking today just discussing the issue of
Access-on-Demand and the removal of the two-stop option that once was in place or is in place when not
using that Access-on-Demand service.
First, I do want to express my gratitude for the subsidies that RTD does provide us as people with
disabilities. My son's daycare is not really in an area that is well accessible by bus or public transport, and
it would cost me $1,600 to $1,800 per month to make those trips morning and evening to pick him up. And
so that subsidy really does help out.
That being said, I do really want to talk about the issue of equality versus equity. So for me, I lost my vision
10 years ago. And so I really thought that equality was something that we should be striving toward. But I
also realize that as people with disabilities, we all have different circumstances.
Each disability is different from the next disability. And so striving towards equity is something that I really
am firmly behind because equity acknowledges those differences in circumstances because we all still want
to arrive at the same goal or the same outcome, but we may do things in a slightly different way.
I want to talk about an anecdote from yesterday. Obviously, we did have some inclement weather, which
impacted rideshares significantly. That coupled with fewer drivers out there to begin with, had to order the
car right around 6:15 or so. Didn't get picked up until about 7:00 P-- or 7:00 AM just because of the inability
to find a driver both in Lyft and Uber.
And so once I did finally get that ride around 7:00, I'm only about 13 minutes or so from my son's daycare.
Did get to the daycare, dropped my son off. Had to wait an additional 42 minutes to get another ride. Not
only that, during that time, the cost for rideshares both in Lyft and Uber did surge significantly. So a ride
that was only seven minutes was going to cost me with the subsidy an additional $25, so $50 ride to go
seven minutes.
So I just want to bring that up because having to wait outside in 24-degree weather for an extended period
of time is definitely one thing. But having to pay $50 just to go for a seven-minute ride where a two-stop
when that surge wasn't present would have solved that issue. So I just strongly urge that RTD will take a
look at this issue, and please reinstate the two-stop option. Thank you for the time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Again, I'll turn to Mr. Kroll to please call on the next
speaker online please.

JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Alejandro Castañeda.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
ALEJANDRA CASTAÑEDA: Hello. Good afternoon. My name is Alejandra Castañeda. I live in District C
with my daughter Violeta, who's 13 years old. I don't own a private vehicle, although I do sometimes drive.
Friends loan me their car, or I rent a car for the weekend when I know that I don't have any other viable
options. The reason why don't own a private vehicle anymore is because I was in a crash two years ago or
so, and I really prefer not to drive.
First, thank you for reducing the permanent service cuts that you spoke to about recently. Please offer
alternate bus accommodations if there are planned detours or service disruptions due to maintenance.
Think about whether there are other options that don't require service cuts. Can we do that? Can you talk
to other transit agencies that do this just like we do?
I am also a pedestrian dignity advocate. Our members all depend on reliable, frequent, and affordable
transit to access essential services like jobs, schools, the grocery store, medical appointments. In that role,
I also meet people who I'm trying to convince that they shouldn't be using their private vehicle so much
because it's not healthy, because our planet needs us to switch our mobility options towards a more climate
friendly option.
I love the bus. The bus is for all of us. And I want to support RTD in doing all of that. But if we don't offer a
service that people can rely on, then there's no convincing. When you announce service cuts or disruptions
to a system that's already not performing great, that discourages people. It validates their opinion that RTD,
quote unquote, "sucks."
And I want to be able to say, no, you can use the bus. Your children can use the bus. Your parents can use
the bus. If we want to make sure we're serving everybody, we need to make sure we're offering a service
that everyone can depend on. Thank you for listening. And this is my first time providing comment, and I'm
learning a lot from the other commenters. And I'm here to support you in providing this system that we all
need to have. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call on the next
speaker and if the next speaker could please proceed once acknowledged by Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Mr. Bruce Perry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead, Mr. Perry.
BRUCE PERRY: Hey, can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can.
BRUCE PERRY: OK, thank you. Hello, my name is Bruce Perry. I'm a resident of Edgewater. I would like
to thank the Board and RTD staff for the important work that you do and for the opportunity to comment
today. I'm also here commenting about the proposed service changes. I will say I'm very encouraged that
the proposed light rail service window reductions have been revised and mostly rolled back.
I'll note that I take the late evening W line trains regularly to get back from the airport and to get home from
events happening downtown. And if service ended at 10:00 PM, I'd either have to skip making these trips

if they're optional or drive instead. But more importantly, many people work non-traditional shifts, and they
have fewer transportation alternatives than I do and would no longer be able to get home from work if
service ended earlier or started later.
While the revised schedule modifications are a big improvement, I'm still concerned that no alternative is
being provided for people who need to commute in the very early mornings. So if closures are really needed
for regular maintenance on the trains, maybe bus service could be augmented during those times.
Separately from the content of the changes, I think it is important to bring up that the transparency of the
initial public engagement process surrounding the changes was lacking as the proposed permanent service
window reduction was lumped in with temporary changes due to special maintenance projects.
I spoke with many people and even saw news reports that did not understand or correctly describe the
service change proposal as a result. In fact, I got into arguments with people who just interpreted what the
service changes were listed as, saying that they weren't permanent changes when, actually, they were. So
clearly, public engagement materials for future service changes should provide more detailed information
and should also clearly differentiate between changes that are intended to be temporary and permanent.
To close, I would like to voice appreciation for a positive change that I've noticed lately, which is four-car
trains running on the A line on Sundays. On a recent Sunday trip home from DIA, I was on a four-car train
that was 2/3 full. So I appreciated being able to sit down rather than needing to stand, as I would have if
had only been a two-car train. So, again, that's a great change. And I'd like to thank you for the opportunity
to speak and consider my comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call on the next speaker
and if that speaker could proceed once recognized.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Cody Bryan.
CODY BRYAN: Yes. My name is Cody Bryan, resident of District C. And I'm also a member of Greater
Denver Transit. Today, I come before you with a matter of concern for the residents and commuters of
Denver-- the closure of Denver's RTD L line, once again, this summer. As we know, transportation plays a
vital role in the lifeblood of any city, connecting people to opportunities, jobs, and activities.
However, the repeated closure of the L line is not only inconvenient but poses significant challenges to
long-term ridership and trust of RTD. This disruption has ripple effects on businesses, schools, and
communities, especially Five Points, that rely on the L Line as a lifeline for connectivity. It is not merely an
inconvenience. It's another setback to the progress we've made in building a sustainable and reliable public
transit network.
Beyond the immediate inconvenience, we must recognize the broader implications of these closures on the
long-term ridership of the RTD system. When commuters face frequent disruptions and uncertainty with no
obvious replacement, they may begin to seek alternate modes of transportation or, worse, lose faith in the
reliability of RTD altogether. This erosion of confidence can have lasting consequences, leading to
decreased ridership, reduced revenue, and ultimately a less functional system for everyone.
However, in the face of these challenges, I believe we can see this moment as an opportunity to come
together as a community and collaborate with RTD to develop a comprehensive plan to promote and
recover ridership after the reconstruction work on Welton and the Downtown loop is complete. This plan

must prioritize engaging with the community to find what needs are not being met during this disruption and
what the community would like to see in the future. Building trust builds ridership.
RTD cannot tackle this challenge alone. It requires a proactive effort from city officials, community leaders,
businesses, and residents to develop solutions and strategies to rebuild that trust, enhance accessibility,
and promote the benefits of our transit system. Whether it's through targeted marketing campaigns,
improved infrastructure, or alternate services during periods of service disruption, we must explore every
avenue to encourage people to choose public transit as their preferred mode of transportation.
The closure of the L Line and other disruptions this summer are undoubtedly a setback. But it's also an
opportunity for us to come together and chart a new course for how RTD communicates with the community
it serves. By working collaboratively with RTD, we can rebuild trust, promote ridership, and create a more
sustainable and equitable transportation system. Thank you for this opportunity to speak tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call the next speaker and if
that speaker could please begin once called upon.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Bryan Baldwin.
BRYAN BALDWIN: Hello, my name is Bryan Baldwin. I'm an employee with the Department of Labor and
Employment. I would like to speak about the Access-on-Demand. I would first like to start with I am very
grateful for the service that it provides. And it has been a real game changer for so many people.
But I would like to speak about the transparency that has been already brought up by Mr. Trela as well and
in regards to financing, seeing that the costs of all of these rides that have been going on with myself not
only going to and from work. I have a three and a half year old child who sometimes needs babysitting. And
I also have cancer, which requires me to go to more facilities and things.
And when these multi-stops were in place, they were allowing not only me to have cheaper rides but also
fewer of my rides being used. And then I could use those rides for doing things such as going places with
my son or going to require doctor's visits, as well as when I'm working. Part of my job is to go work with the
public. And I have to then travel to these locations.
And the way that the accommodations work is that I am to spend the money first and then get reimbursed.
And if that funding is not in my account, I try to use my RTD rides. I try not to use them when possible. But
it's just another time that it takes away. And with more multi-stops-- with multi-stops no longer being
available, I'm having to use more of those rides, taking away from a lot of things.
Another end of this is that, as you all might know, the disability community is not highly employed. There
are a lot of people who are living in a level of poverty are living in Section 8 housing and don't have the
money to deal with these extra costs that might come in if they've used up their rides for the day or for the
month due to the lack of multi-stops.
As well as people, such as myself, who did not get emails in regards to the multi-stops and people who I
know have not gotten the emails that were then given restriction for the following month. That then goes
out of their income that, as we know, is not very high. So I just wanted to ask you to please reconsider that.
And I thank you for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. At this time, I'll again ask Mr. Kroll if you could please
call on the next speaker and if that speaker could please begin once called upon by Mr. Kroll, please.

JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Paolo Solorzano. Mr. Solorzano, you are up.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Solorzano, I can see that you are unmuted on Zoom, but we are unable to hear you
at this time. If we could please move to the next speaker. We'll come back around. That would be great.
Mr. Kroll, if you could please call on the next speaker. And Mr. Solorzano, if you can sort out your audio
issue, we will call upon you again. Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yes. The next speaker we have either shares the name or is, in fact, former Director Natalie
Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. This is Natalie Menten. And I am speaking in regards to the action item for
an amend position on Senate Bill 184. While I'm a bit surprised, I am actually really not that surprised, the
stance that the Board is going to take in looking at the long game that is occurring here with this proposal.
I would hope the Board would be more hesitant to join into this program or plan based upon what was
occurred in the past, the history. I'm going to speak specifically to one part of the bill that does concern me
more than-- well, as much as some others, but to bring to the Board's attention now. And this is looking at
the history of FasTracks.
FasTracks was a program that was supposed to have a 2.5% matching funds presented. During my time
on the Board, it was very difficult to understand that that reimbursement actually occurred because what
happened was that it was applied to one of the jurisdiction's costs out of pocket. And sometimes that wasn't
directly put into the transit. It was put into, oh, nice things that actually did not provide transportation, getting
somebody from point A to point B.
The way the plan was originally described, though, it made it sound like RTD's going to get cash in their
pocket to be able to pay for this massive project. Again, during my time on the Board, it was very hard to
define that through spreadsheet after spreadsheet. And when I see Senate Bill 184 say that the RTD district
will be reimbursed for expenses, I am highly skeptical about that.
And as this Board goes to-- or bill goes to a hearing tomorrow, I hope that concern will be brought forward.
As I look at the bill, it does not really define what is going to occur there. So thank you for letting me take
this opportunity to share my concerns. [AUDIO OUT] [INAUDIBLE] it appears the RTD Board will take.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, former Director Menten. We appreciate the comments. Mr. Kroll, if you could
please call on the next speaker please.
JACK KROLL: Yes. We'll go to James Triplett. And then I might recommend we circle back to Paolo to see
if he's ready.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please. Sounds good. James Triplett, you are recognized. James Triplett, you are still
muted. If you could please unmute yourself, state your name, and then you may speak.
JAMES TRIPLETT: OK, can you hear me now?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can.
JAMES TRIPLETT: OK. I want to thank you for the opportunity to come up for the Board and speak. I have
done it in the past. I want to talk about the Access-on-Demand. But I want to take it to another level. Where

I agree that-- for the multiple stops, I also am very concerned about the Access-a-Ride people like myself.
I'm a computer user. I'm not good with the portals and stuff like that.
But I understand there's 3,000 people who are disabled who's on Access-a-Ride and where I like the
multiple stops, I think we ought to take the savings that the Access-a-Ride gets from the multiple stops and
put them into the Access-a-Ride where people like myself and other people, and especially people in
wheelchairs, they don't have the opportunity to get multiple stops to Access-on-Demand.
Now, I do know that there's three buses out of-- around 350 buses that are being used for that. But there's
multiple kind of people in wheelchairs and walkers and people like myself who cannot use the Access-onDemand. And I think we really should look at the possibility of including Access-a-Rides on that. Well, I
would love to be able to go to the drug store, pick up my medicine, come home, or go different places.
So I'd like to ask the Board to please take in consideration that probably 2/3 of the people on Access-aRide are totally left out. Now, I do appreciate reducing fare. I thank the Board and RTD for that. But it just
seems like that the Access-a-Ride people who need to use the buses like myself-- I just feel like in some
cases, we're left out.
And for transparency, I really would like to see the Board work with Access-a-Ride to include the multiple
stops also. I think that would be fair. And then I think people like myself and other people who are disabled- that would really benefit us also. Thank you for your time, and I appreciate the opportunity. I'm done.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. I'm going to go ahead and loop back around
to Mr. Solorzano, whose hand is still raised. If you could please unmute yourself and speak.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Yeah, hi. Can you guys can hear me now?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We can hear you. Thank you. Please proceed.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Thank you. Yeah, this is Paulo Solorzano from the RTD Riders Alliance and also a
proud member of GDT. But I want to thank RTD and especially Director Ruscha for listening to us about
reducing the service rollbacks.
Thanks for being so communicative about that. But yeah, unfortunately, I mean, since 2018, since I've been
paying attention to this and some other people have been as well, communication and the signage has just
not-- it's been very inconsistent for what we need.
I think a lot of people know at RTD staff and Board about the huge stink, I guess, I make about messaging
at RTD Station. So the 60-minute frequencies this year, it's like the latest gut punch, I think. And last year,
during the coping panel, one-hour rides would turn into two, three, maybe even four hours to get back one
way. This was highlighted in Westwood articles, many other articles online, Reddit, Facebook, Twitter.
Yeah, it was a nightmare. I don't use that lightly. But a major thing was a lack of communication. And it's a
lack of effort, I think. Light rails would stop for 5 to 10 minutes, 15 minutes sometimes with no
announcements, no clear reason. Riders were left blind, stuck in light rail cars. And that doubled with
causing missed transfers-- caused the two- or three-hour headways.
So I mean, how many hours did riders lose during the coping panel project last year? Probably hundreds
of thousands of hours total, maybe more. A million maybe. Who knows? What it is known is that there's
160,000 rides per day. And that won't change this year. It's probably going to be more. And so we can't

afford this. I mean, how many lost medical appointments? You can't be 15 minutes or more late to a doctor's
appointment.
In my personal experience, I had orthodontist appointments from Lakewood to Aurora. It should be an easy,
simple W line to the H line. But with what I just mentioned, it turned into two or three hours, and I missed a
lot of appointments. We also got to think about the Lyft and Uber rides that are being-- people have to pay
for. Again, that must be in the hundreds of thousands of dollars for the Denver Metro-- RTD's region.
And so what I would just like to bring up, it's transit ambassadors or something like that, maybe the scope
program. One of the directors brought up the scope program, S-C-O-P-E. And just in transit ambassador
programs, other people are-- other cities are piloting and doing. And they're like a triage system, that they
can be out there, and they can update RTD about the messaging.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Solorzano, I'm sorry to interrupt. But if you wouldn't mind just please wrapping up in
about 10 seconds.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Sure. Yeah. So yeah, just wondering if RTD can get more creative, more efficient
about this. We need volunteers. We need interns, maybe supervisors, security, and police. RTD police
security can inform riders this summer about missing-- cancellations and stuff like that. It would go a long
ways. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Appreciate it. Mr. Kroll, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Mr. Chair. At this time, we have five remaining public comments
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
JACK KROLL: So the next is Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Hi there. My name's Chris Nicholson. I am a member of the-- sorry, I'm a candidate
for the Board of RTD. I am speaking to you today because I live downtown on 17th Street, which right now
is being served by the MallRide. And obviously, that's the southern portion. The northern portion is going
on 15th Street.
And I'm speaking in opposition to the institution of the Metroride, which would maybe be surprising for
someone who would be living a block away from the new northbound section on the Metroride. The problem
is in order to do that, you'd end up cutting service in half on the MallRide.
So now instead of having one street that has fast, regular northbound service that I can walk two blocks to
get to, if I run out my door, I have to choose between going over to 15th and maybe getting a bus in 10
minutes or going over to 18th and maybe getting a bus in 10 minutes. And I don't know when they're going
to come. Like, I can look at my app. It might be accurate. It might not.
But the MallRide isn't meant to be something that you have to look at a schedule for. It's meant to be the
go, wait at the thing, and then the bus will come. So for me at least, frequency easily, overwhelmingly beats
geographic proximity. It is way better for me to have one place I can go where the buses are running
regularly than it is to have two places I can go and not know which is the better place to go to catch the
next bus.

I understand the concerns about wanting to extend more service out to 18th and 19th. What I'll say is we've
never gotten good ridership in that area. And especially right now with all the construction and the other
disruptions, I think it would be a mistake to try to create a more weak sauce service on one of the things
people rely on the most, i.e. the MallRide, especially when, while we have a number of other buses going
north on 15th, they cost money.
So people like me can hop on, pay the $275 to go three stops if I want to. But most people aren't going to
do that. So I don't see this as a thoughtful solution. If we had more riders to add-- drivers to add, then
maybe. But spreading our already selves thinner than we are currently in downtown is not going to give
people who are tourists, it's not going to give people who are business riders-- the ones who are currently
making great use of that service, it's not going to make it better.
And you're just going to ask me to have to choose every time I walk out the door whether to run left or right
to try to get up to Union Station. And that's going to suck. So that's my reason for please asking you to
reconsider the Metroride for now.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, if you could please acknowledge and call upon
the next speaker and if that speaker could please proceed once called upon.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Stavros Roditis.
STAVROS RODITIS: Hello. My name is Stavros Roditis. I'm a resident of District J, and I'm also a member
of Greater Denver Transit. We are really excited about the extension of the 0L to all-day service. It provides
really good service on bus-only lanes, down a straight shot in a neighborhood that I know I like to go to a
lot.
Beyond that, it connecting to the Broadway Station at D feels like a really good connection for people
coming up from the D, E, and H lines to downtown. But related to this, we want to ask why we think
cannibalizing frequency on some of our other bus lines, such as MallRide, to reinstate the Metroride service
would be the best use of our limited resources.
Personally, as someone who oftentimes transfers through Union Station, I find it really easy to use the 10,
the 15 and the 0 to really get to anywhere within downtown. But it's a lot harder to get to the right bus if I'm
going to Capitol Hill or South Broadway or other places.
We think communicating to the public about these other options that already exist and, alternatively,
extending the 0L up to Union Station would pretty much do the same job of providing the service for people
trying to navigate the loss of the central downtown light rail loop without having to cannibalize MallRide
service. Thank you for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, could you please call on our next speaker and
if our next speaker please speak once acknowledged.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Nate Hecker.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Nate Hecker, you are still muted. If you could unmute yourself, you may proceed.
NATE HECKER: Can you guys hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can.

NATE HECKER: Perfect. Yes my name is Nate Hecker. I was here around June last month talking at the
last Board meeting as well. I just wanted to say I think any reduction to any services is taking a huge step
back, and it's backwards of thinking. We're in, like, 2024. There's definitely much ways to think-- better ways
to think about things than cutting services or reducing bus light rails to one hour a day-- or one ride an hour.
But I also wanted to talk about Access-a-Ride, Access-a-Ride on demand, like I did last month. So I guess
the whole financial thing, it just still doesn't make any sense to me because it's just simple math. If I was to
do 60 rides up to $25 and I pull out a calculator, that's $1,500 that Assess-on-Demand is willing to pay for
me to get to places.
But if I took an Access-a-Ride or a paratransit, talking to a bus driver and other RTD staff, on average, it
costs me $500 for that bus to go. But it don't cost me that. It cost RTD that. So if it costs $500 and I'm able
to do 120 rides, pull up the calculator here, 500 times 120 is $60,000.
So if RTD is willing to spend $60,000 to take paratransit for me to go to places and only $1,500 for Uber for
Assess-on-Demand and they're trying to say that it's a financial decision, it just doesn't make any sense to
me. I don't understand what kind of formula you guys are using. It's just basic math.
I also would like to speak on the part of transparency. I did receive an email from the General Manager
today, which I appreciated. But that was after the third email that I had sent already. I didn't get a chance
to look at the email, but I do appreciate it. But I would just like to have a more quick response maybe after
the first email, not three responses.
Another thing-- reaching out to Lyft or RTD because the Lyft Access-on-Demand voucher is off of my Lyft
rides, and I've reached out three times to them, I still haven't got them to fix it. And I still just have to use
Uber because I have to pay for the Lyft rides. But if I go over the rides, I'm going to get an email from you
guys. I'll probably get one every day. But if I want to get answers, I can't get no email.
And then the last thing I'll say, just the last meeting I was here, I asked some questions. I asked for an email
response. And I still have not received that. So I guess if you guys could send me an email about the
finances and maybe a breakdown on how that would, you could send it to my work email, which is my last
name, Hecker, H-E-C-K-E-R, period H-A-I-H-A-I-S at gmail.com. That's Hecker period haihais at gmail.com.
And I think that's where I'll leave it at.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. I believe we have one more speaker in the
queue virtually. Mr. Kroll, if you could please acknowledge that speaker and if that speaker could please
begin when called upon.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Steph Baldwin.
STEPH BALDWIN: Hello. Can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can.
STEPH BALDWIN: Hi. My name is Stephanie Baldwin. I am a member of the Kids of Blind Parents Division
through the National Federation of the Blind. And in speaking on behalf of my membership in the National
Federation of the Blind as a member, I'm speaking directly to-- or my comments are directly focused on the
Access-on-Demand with Uber and Lyft.

I myself worked full time when my son was two. And in the morning, I would take him to the daycare, which
happened to be past my office, and then back to my office. Many of us know that kind of a route, where you
go past your work, back to work for many different things. And I remember before I had the Access-onDemand, I'll call them privileges because they really are. And I'll stop right now and say thank you. I've
really appreciated them. They've been life changing.
And they were more life changing before the multi-stop ended because before I ever had them, I remember
there was a morning, it was surging, it was winter before I had Access-on-Demand, before it was even a
pilot program. It was $47 to get two and a half miles that morning. So it doesn't take much, not even a
calculator to estimate how much less it costs me once I finally had Uber on Demand and Lyft on Demand.
But then the multi-stops ended. And with my two-year-old and his car seat, I got put to the curb with him to
then wait and possibly be late for my job. And I'm going to keep these comments brief. I'm going to end on
what that makes me feel like.
And I think I'm echoing what it makes a lot of blind Coloradans feel like at this time. It feels dehumanizing.
I feel like a child waiting on the curb, not just with my son's bag and his car seat, which, yes, goes into the
daycare. But I have my work bags too. I mean, frankly, I have places to go. I have things to do. And I'm
from Nebraska.
And I was just recently bragging to a friend of mine who's blind about how great the Access-on-Demand
with Uber and Lyft program is in Colorado. And I can't do that anymore. And I would really, really like to do
that again. And I can say I'm here. I'd like to partner. I'd like to help in any way I can to improve that. It's not
a competition. I'd really like us all to work together. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Mr. Kroll, am I correct-- yes, Mr. Kroll, please
go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yes, we do have one more speaker who raised their hand during the last speaker's
comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you. I see that that is Kat Hanks. Please go ahead and unmute yourself, Kat
Hanks, and you are recognized.
KAT HANKS: OK, sorry about that. I have a little trouble technically there. My name is Kat Hanks, and I'm
going to be speaking about Access-on-Demand. I didn't ever use the multiple stop thing with Uber.
However, I know a lot of people have really appreciated it. Second of all, I really wanted to say thank you
very much for Access-on-Demand and how much money it has saved me. The $25 per trip has really been
very life changing that way.
And so especially getting home from work, that's a lot of money that I've saved over the last, oh, couple
years. So thank you very much for that-- or three years now. I really do appreciate that. I just hope that the
multiple stops will come back so that it'll be easier to go to the post office and to go home or whatever or to
the drugstore or grocery store. It'd be very helpful for everyone who needs to use that. So thank you very
much for Access-on-Demand and what it has helped. And thank you for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your time and for your comments. Mr. Kroll, are there any other
speakers in the queue?
JACK KROLL: There are no other speakers in the queue.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Kroll, can you clarify whether we had received emailed comments for today's
meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Mr. Chair. We received about 22 emails and/or letters submitted by various individuals
and groups. Those were transmitted to the Board prior to the meeting. A bulk of those were transmitted on
Monday afternoon. And then two additional letters were transmitted by email this afternoon. Those will also
be included in the official record for the meeting minutes of today's meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Board Office Executive Manager Kroll, for that. And we thank all of the public
for your participation both here in person, online virtually-- it's the benefit of a hybrid option-- as well as
submitting written comments to the Board of Directors. We thank you for that engagement.
Seeing no other participants in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this time. I'll just
go ahead and note that we will take a brief break after external entities reports. So I would like to move to
our external entities report. And prior to the Audit Committee report and our internal reports, we will take a
brief break for restroom. However, we'll go through these two external entity reports. Our first is from the
Citizens Advisory Committee, or CAC. We are joined by Mr. John Fussa and Ms. Bryn Grunwald. Please
present your report.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you, Chair Davidson. For the CAC tonight, I'm John Fussa, one of the co-chairs of
the CAC for 2024. My fellow co-chair Bryn Grunwald was attending the meeting earlier but had to depart
due to the lateness of the hour. So I'll do the update.
So first of all, thank you, Board, Chair, and Board members for the opportunity to do a Citizens Advisory
Committee update. As I indicated, the co-chairs for the CAC this year are Bryn Grunwald and me. This is
our first report out for 2024.
I do want to advise the Board and thank Chair Davidson and General Manager Johnson. Bryn Grunwald
and I met with both on February 22 to discuss the upcoming year for the CAC, our concerns and activities.
And it was a positive, productive meeting. We got good feedback from Chair Davidson and GM Johnson.
And we want to thank both of you as well as Board Office Manager Jack Kroll for that meeting.
In terms of major 2024 activities for the CAC, this promises to be, I think, a busy year for the CAC, and I'm
sure for the Board, and eventful all the way around. We will be working on and finalizing the CAC 2024
work plan. Those discussions and work have been underway. We hope to finalize that in April and then
report that out and share that as a communication with the Board. We've also been working on a draft CAC
charter, which, again, we hope to finalize in April.
We're also having discussion and working towards providing the Board with CAC comments on revenue
diversification, an important topic for the organization and the services you deliver. And then, of course,
we're monitoring with help from RTD staff and consultants the state legislative session, which has been jam
packed. And to the degree there are bills that concern RTD or involve and effect RTD, we do plan to provide
some review and comment to the Board so you get a public perspective filtered through the CAC.
In terms of the work plan for this year, we'll be back to you with a further update. But we're attempting to
align the CAC work plans to some degree with the Board committee work plans, which we know you've
been working on, and seeking a balance of issues that are customer facing, perhaps those that are more
policy oriented, with some that are more technically oriented to the degree the organization wants our input.

We're also monitoring the state legislative session and do plan to provide comments on appropriate topics
and bills.
With regard to revenue diversification, we'll be back to you with our comments and recommendations in
April. But we've had good review and discussion and have some draft comments. I'm going to go through
this list of some of the comments from the CAC. It's in draft, unprioritized, but ones that we think will likely
come to you in our formal communication in April.
So in terms of revenue diversification, the CAC is concerned about and supportive of RTD debrucing under
TABOR. We think it's important to do that. Perhaps that's number one if we had to prioritize. We also think
it's important that RTD seek and negotiate or attempt to negotiate an annual contribution from the state to
the district for operations and services, particularly if there's a bill that seeks reorganization or revision of
RTD governance and the state seeks to insert itself with a bigger role in the district and the organization
and the Board.
Number three, the CAC has a draft comment that RTD should evaluate and consider the limit and extent
of its boundaries and consider rationalizing those boundaries-- revising and rationalizing those boundaries
to promote service efficiency, reduce cost, and perhaps focus more in those areas where there's existing
infrastructure for service and population densities and economic activity levels are really supportive of
transit. Those tend to be in the core, as you know.
Number four, promote partnerships for non-core services, and seek public sector partners to fund or run
services in outlying lower density, lower ridership areas of the district. The CAC believes, and we think the
organization and the Board believe, that the wave of the future is partnership. There's already quite a few
partnerships, but particularly in outlying areas of the district that maybe are not so supportive of transit in
terms of density and economic activity. We tend to think that the future lies in partnerships.
The CAC also has a draft comment to consider and advocate for a value capture program that would
generate additional revenue to RTD in higher density transit corridors where the RTD service adds value
through economic activity, sales tax revenue, and property tax increases, perhaps modeled on a TIF
program.
And then in the long term, the CAC has discussed-- and I think you'll hear a comment or recommendation
from us-- that it's important to think longer term and plan for the future, including at the appropriate point,
perhaps a ballot question on increasing the RTD sales tax or an equivalent mechanism that would provide
additional funding to the district to fully implement Reimagine RTD, FasTraks, and other service
improvements. And we know that's a longer run conversation and issue. But the RTD thinks that-- the CAC
thinks that that's important to flag. And we know the organization and the Board are considering that issue.
Finally, the CAC will review and likely provide comments to the Board in an attempt to be helpful and provide
a public perspective filtered through the group about any RTD governance bill that may drop and may affect
the Board and the organization. We have not yet done that. We await that if it does drop. But we would
intend to provide comments in an attempt to be supportive and helpful to the Board and the organization.
Mr. Chair, that concludes my report. Thank you for the time and opportunity.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Fussa. We appreciate the report and bringing voice from your group
here to the Board. Our next report is from Ms. Julie Jennings. She will present a combined report for both- I'm sorry. Yeah, we can call in questions for our external entities. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was just wondering, as it relates to service changes, if the CAC
has consulted or if there is dialogue either before or after those come before the Board.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We can take that as follow-up-- to follow up after the meeting unless, Mr. Fussa, you
would like to comment on that.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you for the question. So the CAC, we do occasionally-- not as a regular matter but
as an occasional matter review those three times yearly service changes by RTD and have the ability to
provide comments. The Board has typically not asked us for comments since those are mostly a matter of
routine operations. But if the Board would like us to review and provide comments on a more regular basis,
we're certainly able and willing to do so.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. If I may, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. This director would absolutely appreciate those comments whether it's
by the CAC as a whole or individually. And I also say the same to our accessibility and advisory committees
as well. I think that you guys do excellent work. You're the salt of the earth. And we need to make sure that
those lines of communication are open.
Some of our changes are routine. Some can also be very disruptive. And I think one of the reasons-- well,
I one of the reasons why we have advisory committees is for reasons like this. And that's why I posed that
question. So thank you, Mr. Chair, for allowing me to dialogue. And thank you, sir, for your kind response.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question and for the comment on that suggestion.
Mr. Fussa, Thank you for jumping back in to comment on that as well.
Our next report, we are going to move to Ms. Julie Jennings, who will present a combined report for the
Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, or APAC, and the Advisory Committee for People with
Disabilities, or ACPD. Ms. Jennings, please begin when you are ready.
JULIE JENNINGS: Hello. I'm not a member of the ACPD, and I do not have a summary of their meeting for
this past-ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Jennings, my Apologies That I didn't have that correct in the notes here. Please go
ahead and just comment on your committee at this time. Thank you.
JULIE JENNINGS: All right, I do have a very brief summary of the March 26 APAC meeting. Paul Hamilton,
Senior Manager of Paratransit Services, relayed information regarding an opportunity on the RTD website
for customers to comment on multi-stop trips through the Access-on-Demand service. Mr. Hamilton also
shared with the group about an upcoming peer review for both Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand.
Gretchen Vidergar updated APAC regarding the LiVE program expansion to Access-a-Ride, which began
on the 1st of March. Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services, offered clarification regarding the
differences between Access-a-Ride versus Access-on-Demand.
Mr. Buter also provided information regarding a possible real-time feedback mechanism for customers.
Additional information will be made available to APAC pending further exploration. That concludes my
summary. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Jennings, thank you very much for the report. And, again, my apologies for having
the notes wrong there. Thank you, as always, for coming and bringing the voice of APAC here to this Board.
Very much appreciate the report.
With that, we have approached the section where we will go through committee reports, the Chair's report,
and the General Manager's report, which are internal. I thank everybody in the public for the patience in
remaining here and our external entities for the patience and delivering their reports.
We are going to take a brief five-minute break unless there is objection. We will reconvene at-- let's call it- I'll give it a six-minute buffer here, five and a half, call it-- 7:23. I will call the meeting back to order at 7:23.
Thank you.

Part 2
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Erik Davidson of the RTD Board. I am calling the meeting back to order as
of 4:24 PM Mountain Daylight Time. We are now going to move to our internal reports, starting with the
Audit Committee Report. Committee Chair Dishell, do you have anything you would like to report?
BOBBY DISHELL: The Audit Committee will be meeting on April 11 at 11:00 AM as opposed to our normally
scheduled 10:00 AM. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Dishell. We'll now move to the Finance and Planning
Committee Report. Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have anything you would like to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Mr. Chairman. The minutes of the March 12 meeting of the Finance and Planning
Committee are found in the packet tonight at pages 13 and 14. There are no actions presented to the Board
tonight from that committee meeting. And this will also verify that we have a very interesting meeting that
will be coming up on April 16 this next month. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. Next, we'll move to the Operations and Safety
Committee Report. Committee Chair Whitmore, do you have anything you would like to report?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes, briefly, Mr. Chair. A bulk of our action items are on the agenda tonight. And as
Chair Tisdale said, the minutes of our meeting are certainly included. Just wanted to make two notes. We
did pass an amended work plan at the last committee meeting that included the Riders Bill of Rights as a
topic for discussion later this year.
And also, we have suggested to the Exec Committee to change the name of the committee to Operations,
Safety, and Security. And that's being under-- that's under consideration soon by the Executive Committee.
That's all I have for this evening, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Whitmore, for your report. Next, the Performance
Committee Report. Committee Chair Catlin, do you have anything you would like to report?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. We met on March 18 to revise the work plan for the committee, and it's a much more
robust schedule and work plan than has been experienced by this agency previously. We've really
expanded some of the work activities of that committee.

We will meet once again on April 1, and that agenda is comprised mostly of fleshing out and not redefining
but pulling together the materials from our Board retreat and putting together a set of metrics by which we
can evaluate the agency and the Board. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. Next, we will move to the approval of the Board
meeting minutes and the committee reports. The Board and committee minutes were included in the Board
packet. Are there any corrections from Directors for the minutes to be approved this evening?
All right, seeing none. Unless there is an objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may I
please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings-- February 27, 2024 Board meeting,
March 4, 2024 Performance Committee, March 12, 2024 Finance and Planning Committee, March 13, 2024
Operations and Safety Committee, and March 21, 2024 Executive Committee.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Michael Guzman.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second, Dishell.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard the movement as Secretary Guzman and the second as Director Dishell. Is there
any discussion on this motion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I apologize if I didn't hit the button in time. I have, I guess, a question maybe for our
parliamentarian or a point of order. When we have a meeting minute-- or excuse me, when we have a
meeting and we have attachments, like part of our meeting packet, and those were not included because
we weren't able to publish that in time, is that a correction that we make right now during meeting minutes
as a note to include it in the record, or is that something-- is that separate?
I hope my question makes sense. We have had a couple of meetings with handouts. And I know, per OML,
we do need to record those. And I wasn't sure if it was appropriate to bring that up now, or if we even reflect
in the meeting minutes any additional attachments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I do see the hand raised of our Board Office Executive
Manager, Mr. Kroll. So I would like to recognize Mr. Kroll at this time.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Thank you, Chair Davidson. It is our practice to include the letters and additional
attachments as part of the official transcript of the meeting as opposed to specifically in the minutes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha, does that answer your question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think so. And just for my edification, that also includes not just public comment but
any other attachments that the Board might have in front of them? We also put that in the Board packet
when it's published? Or maybe I should say an updated or corrected Board packet?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Mr. Kroll, please?
JACK KROLL: We wouldn't republish the packet, no. We would include those in the transcript of the
meeting.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. So Mr. Kroll stated those will be in the transcript of the meeting, as
opposed to republishing the packet. Director Ruscha, does that address your question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, just as long as we're being transparent. And I appreciate the answer to the
question and for allowing me to ask it. Thank you so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any further discussion on the motion for the approval of
the minutes? Seeing no further discussion, I'll now call. Are there any No votes on this action? Seeing none,
the motion will pass with 15 Aye votes, 0 No, and 0 Abstention.
We'll now move to the Chair's Report. In the interest of time-- we do have quite a bit on the agenda this
evening-- I will be brief with my update and highlight just a few things. A large portion of my focus over this
past month has been taking many meetings with legislators and regional stakeholders with interests in
transit throughout the region.
Largely, as per our discussions at the Board retreat, I have been taking the opportunity to share information
about RTD. Highlighting some of the types of things that I have been sharing with our community and with
its policymakers include the upcoming loss of the agency's TABOR exemption on our base system which,
as we have discussed, at the end of this year will subject approximately $633 million of RTD's revenues to
TABOR.
While estimates can be difficult to pin down, I have shared with legislators that this could result in as much
as $40 to $70 million a year being at risk to RTD. I have also had an opportunity to share the near-term
financial stability of this agency, share the exceptional nature of that, pointing out that this agency is not in
immediate shortfall of revenues, as is different than many of our peer agencies around the country.
Just recently, for those of you that may be following the news on these types of matters, SEPTA in
Philadelphia, who was facing a substantial shortfall and running the risk of reducing service and also
increasing fares, just received $300 million a year from their state legislature. I should clarify that's not all
for SEPTA. That is for Pennsylvania transportation in general.
So we've had a chance to share that we are in a great situation of not needing that type of money right now.
However, sharing that there is not a lot of slack in the system financially, and therefore highlighting the
importance of the region focusing on the potential impacts TABOR could have to this agency.
Additionally, taking the opportunity to share that in the long term, we do forecast revenue shortfalls. This is
largely due by our forecasted growth of expenses outpacing the forecasted growth of revenues. This has
been an important thing to highlight for folks in our region because the time to make investments when you
face long-term shortfalls is the closer you are to the stability position because, of course, investments now
can compound to great success later. Likewise, ignoring the problem can compound to dramatic shortfalls
in the future.
I have also had a chance to share some of the successes this agency has been able to pursue in light of
our financial stability, such as, and perhaps most notably, the cutting and simplifying of fares for the first
time in agency history without raising taxes. Additionally, the success in piloting our Zero Fare for Youth
program on a year-long basis, for which we did get to see the testimony of Denver Public Schools share
that this has improved truancy rates.

Sharing that we-- I would-- sorry, I should correct. Advocating, as per the position of this Board, that we
would like to see funding to maintain the Zero Fare for Youth program, as well as our Zero Fare for Better
Air program, which were slated to be part of Senate Bill 32.
And I have also had an opportunity to share the stresses and challenges the agency continues to face-perhaps most notably our workforce challenge and how that ties into the importance of maintaining and
improving the personal security and personal safety of our employees who are delivering service at the
front line, as well as maintaining a focus on the personal security and safety of our riders on the system.
I've engaged in a number of these discussions with legislators, decision makers, and stakeholders
throughout the region. I will continue to do so, invite my Board colleagues to do so pursuant to our
discussions at our Board retreat.
Additionally, I just want to highlight that on March 19, General Manager and CEO Johnson and I transmitted
a joint letter to the Front Range Passenger Rail District's Board Chair Nevitt and General Manager Karsian.
We took the opportunity in this letter to thank General Manager Karsian for presenting to the RTD Board
on February 27.
We took this opportunity to reinforce our commitment to work collaboratively with the Front Range
Passenger Rail District in pursuit of our mutual goals, and we also took this opportunity to clearly articulate
that the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, or FISA, as it is often referred, is under the purview of the
RTD Board of Directors and is intended for the best interests of the taxpayers from whom the funding is
derived.
We also took the opportunity to share with Mr. Karsian and Chair Nevitt that the RTD is nearing the
completion of the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study, which we will hear an update on this
evening, and that it is our intent to share this openly and collaboratively with the Front Range Passenger
Rail District.
And finally, to convey our interest in reviewing the Front Range Passenger Rail's District's Service
Development Plan when that is complete and when that is made available to this Board so that we can
investigate whether there are intersections between the interests of RTD's FasTracks program and the
Front Range Passenger Rail District's intercity rail program.
With that, I will conclude my Chair's Report, and I will yield the floor to our General Manager Johnson to
please share with us her report.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and good evening to all of you Board members
and all who are assembled, both virtually and here in the boardroom. As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson,
the General Manager and CEO. This evening, I will share with you a few highlights of activities and strategic
endeavors which I have engaged since the most recent Board meeting of February 27.
This report and the activities that I will cite herein are centered around the agency's Strategic Priorities, as
well as the 2023/2024 Strategic Initiatives of back to basics, people power, and welcoming transit
environment.
Regarding community value, I will share an overview of meetings and events in which I have engaged,
including RTD's participation in a Littleton City Council study session, an event hosted by the Colorado
chapter of the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials. My participation in activities in Washington

DC, including a Policy Symposium hosted by WTS International, or the Women's Transportation Seminar,
and a delegation of elected officials from the Northwest region of this metro area.
Additionally, I participated in a women's development panel hosted by the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid
Transit Authority, or MARTA, as it's commonly referred, convened a meeting amongst RTD staff and
representatives from the city of Lakewood, and participated in the most recent Front Range Passenger Rail
District Board Workshop.
Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss additional functionality now available via the Next Ride web
app and the elevator pilot program that launched on March 17. And lastly but certainly not least, speaking
to employee ownership, I will share information regarding the National Transit Employee Appreciation Day.
So briefly, related to community value, on Thursday, February 28, I, along with Directors Tisdale, Dishell,
and Catlin, Deputy Chiefs Glynn Horn and Steve Martingano, and Government Relations Officer Michael
Davies, as well as RTD's local Government Relations Contractor, participated in a study session of the
Littleton City Council to present agency updates and respond to inquiries regarding the agency's long-term
planning related to transit service delivery to the city.
I would say that it was the most engaged discussion. We walked away with a better understanding of how
we could collaborate and basically all the opportunities that lie ahead for both that municipality as well as
with the Regional Transportation District. Later that day, I attended and served as one of several speakers
at an event hosted by the Colorado chapter of Conference of Minority Transportation Officials, better known
as COMTO.
For your edification, COMTO is a 53-year-old multimodal advocacy organization for minority professionals
and businesses in the transportation industry that strives to ensure opportunities and maximum
participation. This event serves as the 20th celebration of the chapter's anniversary and an aspirational
look for 2024 and beyond.
I serve as an advisory to the COMTO Colorado chapter's Board of Directors. The COMTO International
President and CEO April Rai was in attendance, along with other Denver metro area leaders that
participated in the event, including Amy Ford from the Denver's Department of Transportation and
Infrastructure, Denver International Airport CEO Phil Washington, and former Mayor of Denver-- and former
Mayor Michael Hancock of the city and county of Denver.
From Tuesday, May 5 through Friday, March 8, I attended the WTS International Policy Symposium held
in Washington DC. WTS International gathers public, private, and nonprofit leaders to discuss key decisions
in transportation policymaking affecting gender, equity, workforce development, and community
engagement. The Policy Symposium this year highlighted policymaking at all levels of the industry,
including modal-specific updates at the federal and state level, specifically focused on bipartisan
infrastructure law funding.
We saw the likes of the FRA Administrator and acting FTA Administrator, as well as the NHTSA
Administrator and Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. We discussed labor and workforce
development, amongst a myriad of other topics. During the course of the symposium, I moderated a panel
entitled Policymaking and Implementation at the City Level, during which participants discussed topics,
including balancing between city and state needs and priorities, new technology on city streets, active
mobility and equitable mobility, partnership between city governments and private sector and community
engagement, as well as data-informed policymaking.

And more specifically, we had dialogue about what we have gotten wrong and what we have gotten right
in local transportation infrastructure projects in the past 10 years. Panelists included Sharon Kirschbaum,
Director of Washington DC's Department of Transportation, commonly referred to as DDOT; Katherine
Summerlin, who is a senior staff analyst from the city of Houston; and Kim Lucas, who is the Director
Department of Mobility and Infrastructure for the city of Pittsburgh; and Harriet Tregoning, Director of the
New Urban Mobility Alliance.
The following week, from Wednesday, March 13 through Friday, March 15, I, along with Second Vice Chair
Lynn Guissinger and Government Relations Officer Michael Davies returned to Washington DC, along with
elected officials representing the northwest region of the metro area, including the jurisdictions of the city
of Boulder, Boulder County, Longmont, Erie, Lafayette, Superior, Louisville, the city and county of
Broomfield, and Westminster.
The coalition met with members of Colorado's congressional delegation and congressional staff to engage
in dialogue and encourage support for numerous projects and initiatives impacting the region, including
several infrastructure and transportation projects, safety improvements, and efforts to reduce greenhouse
gases.
Last Monday, March 18, in recognition of Women's History Month, I participated in a virtual panel discussion
hosted by MARTA. The panel's theme was career success leverage for women, and participants fielded
questions designed to inspire and empower women early in their careers in the transportation industry. The
panel was moderated by Sherrie Johnson, MARTA's Director of Learning and Development, and other
panelists included women in leadership positions in the greater Atlanta metro area, as well as Carita Ducre,
who is the Vice Present of Workforce Development and Educational Services from the American Public
Transportation Association.
On Thursday, March 21, I, along with Jyotsna Vishwakarma, acting AGM of Capital Programs, and Michael
Davies, Government Relations Officer, met virtually with Lakewood City Manager Kathy Hodgson and
members of her staff, specifically the new Public Works Director and the City Planning Director and the
CFO, to discuss RTD strategies and initiatives for 2024. And Director Sloan is smiling over there because
she's very excited about that.
Related to customer excellence, on Thursday, March 7, the agency launched a simpler way to purchase
fares. Customers using the trip planner feature on the Next Ride online application are now able to see the
fare price for the trip associated with their planned journey before purchasing anything. I think that's a big
step relative to managing customer expectations.
So customers can click the Buy a Ticket link and complete their fare purchase in their MyRide app. And
customers who use the trip planner feature on the Next Ride application but do not yet have the MyRide
app installed on their mobile device are now prompted to visit either the Apple or Android App Store to
download it.
And then I want to round out and talk about the elevator private-- excuse me. If I could speak. Elevator pilot
program. As I previously shared with this Board via memorandum, on Sunday, March 17, the agency
commenced a pilot program, wherein the doors of the elevators in three locations-- specifically the Nine
mile, Colorado, and Southmoor stations-- were reprogrammed to rest in the open position.
This pilot is in alignment with the strategic initiative related to a welcoming transit environment, and the
locations that were selected for the pilot basically were based upon specific data, recognizing that a large

number of customer complaints, security-related incidents, and operational disruptions have come forward
due to unwanted activities. Staff will be monitoring social media comments, online messages, and call
center data to determine the effectiveness of the pilot and to assess whether it should be expanded to other
locations.
Related to the Strategic Priority of Employee Ownership, on Monday, March 18, RTD celebrated National
Transit Employee Appreciation Day. Observation of this annual event is in alignment with the agency's 2023
and 2024 Strategic Initiative of people power. In recognition of past employee survey responses related to
how employees indicated they wanted to be recognized, rather than providing uniform items for all
employees, the agency managers and supervisors were given creative license to provide their employees
with small tokens of recognition, such as breakfast foods, RTD branded mementos, and other similar items.
And last but certainly not least, I would be remiss not to acknowledge that tonight represents the last official
Board meeting of our Chief Operations Officer Michael Ford's six-year tenure with RTD. Having served in
numerous roles in transit agencies spanning from California to Michigan, Michael announced earlier this
month that he would be retiring. My personal thanks, commendations, and congratulations go to Michael
for his dedication to RTD and his more than 40 years in the transportation industry. I believe I speak for
everyone here in wishing him all the best in his future endeavors, and please join me in round of applause
in recognition of Michael Ford.
[APPLAUSE]

Mr. Ford, do you have anything to say, besides deuces, see ya?
MICHAEL FORD: [INAUDIBLE]. I'll be very brief, but thank you very much. And I just want to thank you,
Debra, for your leadership and direction. And I also want to thank my leadership group. Appreciate
everything you guys do every single day. And I will miss you. And I want to thank Lance too for the
partnerships and the relationships we've been able to cultivate to get things done. So thank you very much.
And deuces, out.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: All right.
[APPLAUSE]

And with those comments, Mr. Chair, that completes my report.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager/CEO Johnson. And thank you, Mr. Ford, for your service
to the agency, and we congratulate you on the retirement and wish you the very best in your endeavors
ahead. Thank you.
All right Thanks, everybody. Appreciate it. We will be moving to the Unanimous Consent section of our
agenda. There is one Unanimous Consent item on the agenda-SPEAKER 1: Discussion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm sorry.

SPEAKER 1: Discussion items.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ah, my apologies. Thank you very much. Jumping ahead a little bit here. Thank you.
Appreciate it. I misspoke. We will now move to our discussion items. There are two items on tonight's
agenda. The first section will have two items presented by the General Manager and staff. First is the
Access-on-Demand Update. General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson, would you please introduce this
item to the Board?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Debra Johnson, once again. General
Manager and CEO. I am joined by Fred Worthen, who serves as our Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations. If I could have the next slide, please.
So this evening, Mr. Worthen and I will be discussing, first and foremost, an overview of both Access-aRide, RTD's ADA complementary paratransit program, and the supplemental Access-on-Demand program.
The functionality enabled with the app utilized by one of the Access-on-Demand contractors that allows
multi-stop trip requests.
We will also talk about staff's effort to communicate the agency's response to address this inadvertent multistop functionality. And lastly, the peer review that will be convened to assess RTD's paratransit service
program holistically. I'm now going to turn the presentation over to Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.
He will be covering the multi-stop app functionality, as well as the program overview. And I will be covering
the latter part of the presentation focused on the communication and outreach and the peer review. So with
that, Mr. Worthen, I yield the floor to you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. Good evening, honorable Board
members. I am Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations. As Ms. Johnson said, tonight
we are here to provide an overview of the Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand programs. So I'll start
with a little bit of background.
The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 requires public transit agencies that have fixed-route services
to provide a complementary paratransit service to people who cannot use fixed-route or bus/rail service
because of a disability. The ADA regulations specifically define a population of customers who are entitled
to the service as a civil right and establishes the criteria to use these services.
RTD complementary paratransit service is branded as Access-a-Ride. All RTD Access-a-Ride vehicles are
100% accessible. Eligible customers may reserve trips on Access-a-Ride one to seven days in advance for
any trip purpose.
The ADA regulations also define minimum service characteristics that must be met for the service to be
considered equivalent to fixed-route service it is intended to complement. ADA complementary service must
be provided on the same days and during the same hours as the fixed-route service for the comparable
trip.
Paratransit complementary service must be provided within 3/4 mile of each side of a fixed route and within
3/4 mile radius of a rail station. The transit agency must schedule and provide paratransit service to any
ADA complementary paratransit eligible person at any requested time in response to a request made for
service the previous day. The transit agency must accept reservations during normal business hours on all
days preceding a service day.

The one-way paratransit fare may also not be more than two times the-- twice the fare of a full fixed-route
service for a similar trip, exclusive of discounts. And a customer's personal care attendant may not be
charged a fare. There also may be no restrictions or priorities based on trip purpose. Service must be
provided regardless of the nature of the trip. And public entities must plan, budget, and implement their
paratransit systems to meet all of the anticipated demand for service.
As previously mentioned, ADA complementary paratransit service must be provided within 3/4 of a mile on
either side of each fixed route, as well as within 3/4 mile radius of all rail stations. I should mention that
commuter rail and regional bus services are not included within paratransit service requirements. When the
initial ADA regulations were drafted, these services were excluded because they were operated primarily
as express services with limited stops during peak periods of daily service.
Most of these services usually travel from one way from outlying areas to high density activity centers, such
as major downtown or employment centers in the morning, then returning customers to home on a reverse
commute in the evening from the major activity centers to the AM service origin.
Access-on-Demand is an agency subsidized, supplemental paratransit service. It is a curb-to-curb taxi and
rideshare service that is available for current eligible Access-a-Ride customers. Eligible customers may
take up to 60 total trips per month on Uber, Lyft, zTrip, or Metro Taxi. RTD pays the first $25 of trip cost,
with the remaining portion of the fare paid by customers.
Eligible Access-a-Ride customers can register online through a relatively simple process. The enrollment
form requests the rider's name, Access-a-Ride ID, email, and mobile phone number. Once the requested
information is provided, the individual requesting Access-on-Demand service can choose one or more
service providers that are provided by Lyft, Metro Taxi, Uber, and zTrip.
Once service providers are selected, individuals check boxes to acknowledge how information related to
services may be shared with RTD, acknowledges that they are voluntarily enrolling in the program and the
requester is responsible to pay for fees above and beyond the $25 subsidy for the trips, and that they
understand and agree that Access-on-Demand is limited to 60 one-way trips per month. And additional
information is also available on our website at rtd-denver.com with regard to the Access-on-Demand
program.
As a bit of historical background, in October 2020, the Access-a-Cab program in place at the time was
expanded to use transportation network companies. This expansion included a small, limited-area pilot that
was later expanded to the entire district in January of 2022. In November of 2022, the RTD Board of
Directors authorized the General Manager and CEO to enter into contracts with transportation network
providers.
And late in 2023, RTD became aware of Uber's multi-stop app functionality through the review of subsidies
of the Access-on-Demand program. The average single-trip subsidy for Access-on-Demand is $18.55,
where the average multi-trip subsidy is $24.13 for multi-stop trips.
Once staff became aware of the multi-stop app functionality, communications and outreach commenced to
remind customers multi-stops are not allowed under AOD terms, as well as penalties associated with the
usage of multi-stops. And I'm not supposed to use acronyms. AOD means Access-on-Demand. My
apologies for that.

With regard to multi-stop functionality, the Uber app allows up to five additional stops per trip. However,
multiple stop fees may be incurred, and there may be wait times between requested trip stops. Uber is
currently the only Access-on-Demand provider that has multi-stop feature within the service scheduling
application.
Uber cannot turn the multi-stop function off. As a result, paratransit staff must monitor trips on Uber services
to ensure compliance with the Access-on-Demand program, which prohibits the usage of multi-stops. Multistops are not a function provided by other AOD partners or available to RTD customers as a whole.
As previously mentioned, in December 2023, paratransit staff became aware of customers using the app
to schedule trips with multi-stops. And also, I'd like to reinforce that multi-stops are not an option available
to all RTD customers. So to avoid disparate treatment, Access-on-Demand must be equitable to all
customers.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: There we are. All right. So recognizing that during the joint meeting of RTD's two
paratransit-related advisory committees, as you heard from our chair of our committee, in November of
2023, staff led a discussion regarding the Access-on-Demand program following a request from one of the
committee members.
Shortly after, as you heard from Mr. Worthen, in December of 2023, paratransit staff learned that the
reservation app offered by Uber, one of the four Access-on-Demand contracted partners, offered Accesson-Demand customers the ability to request multi-stop trips. This functionality, as you just heard, is not
available through the reservation applications utilized by the other three Access-on-Demand service
providers.
Moreover, multi-stop functionality is not available via any other transit service delivered by RTD, including
Access-a-Ride service utilizing RTD-branded vehicles, as well as bus, rail, and FlexRide service. Shortly
after learning about this multi-stop functionality-- and I note that on the slide here, the packet, it says multistop-- it does not say multi-stop. It says multi-trip, but we're talking about multi-stop. So I wanted to
acknowledge that error.
Staff sent an email to customers, noting that multi-stop trips are not included in the Access-on-Demand
program parameters. And I also want to qualify that we sent email to customers that had registered email
addresses with RTD because I do recognize that some individuals have not received those emails. Several
customers, many of whom have been accustomed to using this unintended feature, appeared during the
February Board meeting to request the continuation of this function.
Oops. That's quick. So in an effort to be highly communicative and transparent, on Wednesday, March 6, I
sent an email to all registered Access-a-Ride customers with a listed email address, apprising them that
staff had become aware that the booking and reservation application utilized by one of the agency's Accesson-Demand partners allows individuals to request multi-stop trips when booking services and that this multistop option, while certainly convenient, is not available to other RTD customers, including Access-a-Ride
customers who utilizes the agency's accessible services provided through RTD-branded paratransit
vehicles.
Included in that email was a link to a page on RTD's website, created to garner feedback from impacted
customers. To date, more than 60 individuals have provided responses via an online forum on the web
page, and others still responded directly to the email. These responses will continue to be monitored and
reviewed by staff.

Additionally, earlier today, a subsequent communique was sent to the individuals who responded, letting
them know that their feedback is vitally important to the Access-on-Demand program. Further, the
communique provided additional instructions for individuals to solicit specific questions about Access-onDemand program or general comments or questions regarding RTD services in general.
Going forward, staff will provide updates regarding this matter to the Paratransit Advisory Committee, as
well as to the ACPD Committee. And let me be clear in light of the comments we heard tonight, whatever
other options people would like us to venture into, we're more than amenable to doing so. We were using
these conduits, recognizing that this was a targeted demographic relative to the ridership for those services
that we just outlined for the ADA complementary paratransit service, as well as the supplemental service
we've coined as Access-on-Demand.
So in the March 6 email to Access-a-Ride customers, and I also shared this with all of you, I commissioned
a peer review of RTD's paratransit service delivery to be conducted by industry subject matter experts.
During the course of the review, the subject matter expert panel will examine and review the overall Accessa-Ride program, as well as the Access-on-Demand program specifically, to better understand the strengths,
the opportunities, and potential improvement areas for the agency's complementary paratransit service
delivery.
The peer review will launch in April of 2024, with a site visit scheduled in May of 2024. The panel will provide
recommendations once that assessment is completed, following which staff will review the
recommendations and assess next steps. And I, of course, will keep the Board apprised throughout. So
with that, Mr. Chair, that concludes our presentation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager/CEO Johnson and Mr. Worthen, for the
presentation. We'll now open up for discussion and questions from Directors. I first see Director Lewis,
please.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. I just had a question. On the March 6, did you mention the peer review in that particular
email? May I?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, I did.
JAIME LEWIS: OK. The other question I had, I know that APTA was going to try to start this in April. Did
they kind of give you an indication how long this would take so we can give people kind of like a ballpark
idea when this is going to be completed?
JACK KROLL:
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr. Chair, I'd like to take this opportunity to provide context. So the
American Public Transportation Association is comprised of a myriad of members, most of them being
transit agencies for the most part, recognizing that one of the benefits of being APTA member is leveraging
peer reviews.
Peer reviews are basically comprised of individuals like myself and members of my team. So recognizing
we put forward a request, these are volunteers that take part in assessing certain areas in which they have

a subject matter expertise. With that as a backdrop, recognizing that we are providing information to the
panelists that we have identified to participate.
We expect them to be doing a lot of the work virtually. We have a meeting just next week with the Chief
Operations Officer at APTA as he is serving as the facilitator for this group. We will have a better
understanding of what it will entail as they look at our scope. But for all intents and purposes, once we
convene the group and they do their assessments, it could be anywhere from a couple of weeks when
they're looking at information.
But when they come on site, they generally will be interviewing, going out on rides, and things of the like.
And we could expect to have a report, contingent upon their availability, probably with a few short weeks.
So I provide that context to say, I would expect something by late May.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. Thank you, General Manager/CEO Johnson. I'll next go to
Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Davidson. And thank you, General Manager and Fred Worthen,
AGM Fred Worthen, for the great presentation. I just wanted to really put a fine point on-- I heard two
different objections to the multi-trip. One is the concern around a disparate treatment between those who
are able to use Access-on-Demand and Access-a-Ride and those who are only able to use Access-a-Ride.
And I think that that is a really valid-- we need to put a lot of attention there.
The other concern I heard was that one of our private contractors can do something and the other three
can't do something. And that objection is one that I have a little bit of pushback on and trouble with because
my understanding is the entire reason we outsource to the private sector is for them to innovate and be
able to perform or outperform each other, similar to when there were a choice of airlines and the airlines
were able to compete on the service they provided as opposed to the price.
And so from my perspective, the pushback on, we want to make sure that the service we're providing to
people, we're not creating two different classes of folks, is really important. The pushback on, well, one of
our private sector people can and the other three can't, I'd like to understand if there's a bit more there there
and encourage us to focus on one justification over both or better understand why we would outsource if
not to allow the private sector to compete with one another to provide better services.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager and CEO Johnson, would you like to comment on that?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and Director Dishell, for the question. So I
will provide some context, and then give my opinion. And that's my opinion relative to what we're doing
here. So recognizing that we provide paratransit services to comply with the Americans with Disabilities
Act, this agency, prior to me getting here, wanted to expand that broader.
And this is some uncharted territory. That's why I thought it was most important that we leverage a peer
review once we discovered that Uber had this multifunctionality that the others did not because as you
heard this evening with some of the comments, individuals that have to use a WAV, a Wheelchair
Accessible Vehicle, may not have the opportunity to leverage the Uber services.
And so with that, recognizing that this is new in the transit industry. And upon speaking with individuals that
have leveraged some Access-on-Demand programs, Mr. Worthen and I have learned that some of them
had reeled them back because of these unknown variables that have come to play that may give the
perception of disparate treatment. And so with that as a backdrop, another important factor is this.

For all intents and purposes, as we look at our Access-a-Ride costs relative to the fixed van usage that-that's not correct in reference to what I said. With the cutaways that we use for those services, on average,
that cost may be-- what is it? Like $65, $68 per trip?
FRED WORTHEN: That's roughly in the ballpark.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Right. And so when you think about the multifaceted trips, when we cover up to $25
and people are using that more and more, we're paying for that in each instance, which basically caused a
surge in the costs. Hence, that's how this came to our attention because we have to monitor it manually
because this is not within the auspices of our registration program, unlike the other Access-a-Ride
programs.
So holistically, when you talk about, we should be encouraging fair competition in the private sector, I don't
disagree with that. But then, when we're trying to provide a public service-- and the operative word is
"public"-- there has been instances where it may appear as if we're not being equitable in the distribution
of said service. Does that answer your question? And if it doesn't, you can tell me.
[LAUGHTER]

BOBBY DISHELL: You know I will.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: I know.
BOBBY DISHELL: No, that makes sense. And what I'm hearing is that the answer is not no. The answer
is, this is new. We got to take a pause. We got to figure it out and reevaluate it. And the answer might be,
we need to do multi-stop across the board. It might be some people can, some people can't. It might be,
we need to bid it back out and say, look, please bid in multi-stop or don't, but note that in your bid. That's
sort of what I'm hearing.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Hence we don't know what we don't know. And so when this came to our attention
and heard all those comments and what we're getting-- and even tonight, when we heard from an individual
who said, I'm not able to use Access-on-Demand-- we're hearing both sides.
And I think it's incumbent upon us to do our due diligence. And while the intent was good as we went
forward with this, this is why you do pilot programs, to learn about what may be best and what may need
more refinement. And that's our intent here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. And just for my own edification, are there any Access-on-Demand vehicles that
are-- that's probably not the right way to ask that. Yeah. Can you reliably book an Access-on-Demand
vehicle that is wheelchair accessible?
FRED WORTHEN: We do utilize our current paratransit service providers to supplement the Access-onDemand. It is referred to as WAV by most individuals. There are trips available to individuals through the
WAV program.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: WAV being Wheelchair Accessible Vehicle, W-A-V.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for clarifying that. Director Dishell, does that address your question?

BOBBY DISHELL: No. So of the four-- Uber, Lyft, zTrip, Metro Taxi-- do any of the four of them reliably
offer the ability to book WAV?
FRED WORTHEN: No. We supplement that through our paratransit services.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Thank you for the answers from Ms. Johnson, Mr. Worthen.
Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Can you all hear me OK? I just want to make sure.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. I have a new device. Just wanted to check. So the agency has
previously stated, and I think it was just restated, that On-Demand is not paratransit. And we have also
stated that it is not required to be compliant with the ADA.
You might remember last year there was a conversation in a Board meeting about that. I disagree. I think
we are required to be compliant with the ADA, and I do think it is a form of paratransit service. And as it has
been noted, not all of our On-Demand platforms have the same amenities or benefits.
We also stated to the customer in the pilot-- which we are way beyond pilot, we're on three or four years
now-- that you are entering into the open marketplace, and you can choose what benefits you. And you can
also choose more than one service. You can enroll in all of them if you'd like to.
On-Demand provides freedom and access for many. For those who do need wheelchair accessible
vehicles, yes, that is an option, but it is not in any way comparable. And those wait times-- those wait times
need to be addressed.
I would also note that prior to On-Demand, the Access-a-Cab service that we had did allow multiple stops,
which means that, technically, when we moved away from that program, we also took away an amenity in
that transition. So I understand and I completely respect this is a very complex issue, and I welcome the
peer review.
I'm frustrated we're about three years in. But I just want to also acknowledge, for folks who have taken the
time to show up and write and come to meetings and reach out to Directors, that even if we had the best
intentions, we caused harm. We caused harm in some of the decisions we made relative to the rollout, but
we also caused harm in taking away a benefit that many people have noted that has changed their lives
and in some ways might even be saving the agency money in certain circumstances.
So it would have been my preference that we allowed this amenity to continue as we do a review and gave
customers a heads up versus-- and I do recognize we did send out an email-- just taking something away.
Now, I can't make-- that's not my determination to make. It's not the Board's determination to make.
But I really strongly encourage staff moving forward, just to Director Dishell's point, that we're intellectually
consistent in our arguments, but we also really truly consider the harm that we might be doing in the
corrections that we're making and do everything we can to mitigate that. And I do believe that GM/CEO is
trying to do that right now.

But this is an issue that I have heard about for weeks now from many of my colleagues who are blind. And
I felt like I had to-- I had to speak up and say something, particularly as it relates to Access-a-Cab. Multiple
stops was something that people were able to do in the past, and so it's not like this was new.
I could completely understand how customers would have missed that wasn't permissible. Thank you so
much for allowing me to speak. And I also, again, just want to recognize staff for their work on this issue.
It's tough. We don't want to create more harm by fixing something. And again, I appreciate the peer review
that's coming, and I look forward to hearing updates soon.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments, Director Ruscha. Appreciated, as always.
We'll turn to Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. I just kind of want to piggyback on what everybody else has said. I really am
hearing what Director Dishell said about, we do want to be equitable. And I also completely agree, if one is
doing a better job, let's not kneecap it in favor of the other three that aren't providing that same service.
But I also-- as we move forward, I think there's an opportunity to innovate. And while it may cost a little
more money, and I understand that that adds up over time, but we have the opportunity to truly help those
that are most in need in our community. Whatever that person's disability is, we can serve them. We can
help them.
And we can choose to either do the bare minimum and do exactly what the ADA has said we should do, or
we can look at how we can provide better service and we can be leaders in our community, truly helping
those individuals, whatever their disability is. So I think that while the peer review may come back and say,
this is meeting the letter of the law, is that how we want to set ourselves up for the future and help our
community, no matter where they live and how they are able to move through our community? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments, Director Harwick. Always appreciated. Are there further
questions or comments from Directors at this time? Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I might also add that our history as an agency is to not just do the bare minimum. So
I am looking forward to the peer review, and I do hope that we take those considerations into account as
we make our policy decisions and we make our decisions on how we operate.
I do also realize there's a fiscal responsibility. And in everything that we've talked about as a Board, we do
have to take that into account. But to Director Harwick's point, I don't think any of our taxpayers would mind
us helping the most vulnerable in ensuring that they have access to public transportation to get their needs
met.
How it's used and how we structure that, that's in play right now. But I think that we're doing the right work.
So thank you for reaching out for that peer review and commissioning it, and I look forward to hearing it.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Other questions or comments? I just would like to thank
our General Manager and CEO Johnson and Mr. Worthen for the presentation, for the work on this. Echo
the sentiments and comments of my colleagues, that we appreciate what is a complex issue with disparate
platforms available from our different private sector partners in this.

Very much look forward to seeing the results of the peer review and having a policy discussion on how far
it is that we do go as an agency to serve our most vulnerable neighbors. So thank you very much to staff
for the work on that. Thank you to Directors for the questions. Appreciate it.
We'll now move on to our next discussion item. This is with regards to the Northwest Rail Peak Service
Feasibility Study and is an update. At this time I, again, will ask General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson
to please introduce the item to the Board for presentation.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
And we have this evening an update as it relates to the progress we've made with the Northwest Rail Peak
Service Feasibility Study. We have Patrick Stanley here who will give the presentation.
He serves as the Project Manager for this endeavor, and he is joined by Jyotsna Vishwakarma who serves
as Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs. So with that introduction, I will yield the floor to Mr.
Stanley to commence with this update on where we are with this much anticipated study.
PATRICK STANLEY: Thank you. Can everybody hear me OK? I'm not too loud, am I? All right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you.
PATRICK STANLEY: Thank you, General Manager/CEO Johnson, Mr. Chair, Directors. Good evening. As
Ms. Johnson said, my name is Patrick Stanley. I'm the Manager of Engineering Programs with RTD, and I
also serve as the Peak Service Feasibility Study Project Manager for the Northwest Rail.
So today-- sorry. Got to aim the clicker. And I apologize to Director Sloan and Dishell. I'm going to be aiming
at you all night here as I try to change the slides. So a quick overview. What we're going to talk about today
is that we'll give you a general update on the project status. We'll talk a little bit in more depth than what we
previously talked about on the required infrastructure. A little bit more information on some of that.
We'll also go over the common set of facts that we've been developing as part of this study, which is the
ultimate goal on the study, is to understand what those facts are. We'll talk briefly about some of the
opportunities on the project. And really, in particular, that's the Front Range Passenger Rail District. And
then we also want to go over the community and stakeholder engagement efforts that we've been going
through since the last Board update.
So real quick on project status. Right now, HDR, which is our design consultant for the study working for
RTD, they were currently really towards the tail end of Milestone 3, which is really determining the base
configuration. So this is really defining the core elements of what is needed to operate peak service on the
corridor. And they have initiated Milestone 4, which is the service options and partnerships. And also
starting in on the options, strategies, and next steps.
Right now, currently, we have contracted with the BNSF Railway to do 30% design plans, cost estimates
for capital costs and for operational costs. They have provided us a 20% design plan set, which we have
provided comments on. We are awaiting the 20% cost estimates from the BNSF currently, and they are
working towards the 30% design as we speak.
Also of note is the Front Range Passenger Rail District, which is actually being led by the consultant HNTB
for CDOT. And they're working on the Service Development Plan, which is ongoing, a concurrent study that
they are undertaking as part of the Front Range Passenger Rail District efforts.

And then wanted to touch on RTD and Front Rail Passenger-- RTD and Front Range Passenger Rail
District. We are currently identifying, with the information that we have at hand as we move through the
study, any opportunities and efficiencies that may be there between RTD and Front Range Passenger Rail
District.
So touching on required infrastructure, we have six new stations. These stations will be just essentially the
same as what you would see on, say, the A line. They're 400-foot-long platforms. High-level boarding, and
that's an important piece that we want to touch on here in the next few slides. But essentially, it'll be very
similar to what you've seen on the commuter rail stations that we currently have now. So canopies, a similar
set of amenities that are equitable between each jurisdiction.
And what we have is they actually have a RTD commuter rail design template that we provided for-- we're
not necessarily going to design those fully out at this stage. It's pretty conceptual. But the agreement we'll
have with the communities is that's going to be a menu of sorts that they can pick from.
We have three passenger-- or three freight sidings. These freight sidings essentially allow the railroad to
pull over and get off of the tracks during peak period windows. So we have a morning peak window, and
we have an evening peak window. And essentially, this allows them to move off the side of the road, so to
speak, so that we can have operational priority during that peak period window so that we're not going to
be behind a slow moving freight train or anything like that.
We have total of about 7.2 miles of siding track that's needed in order to satisfy the BNSF requirements for
us to operate on their corridor. We've worked pretty closely with the BNSF and the jurisdictions to make
sure that we avoid traffic impacts, roadway blockages, that sort of thing for these locations with these
sidings.
Additionally, we have track improvements on the corridor in general. A lot of these are curve adjustments
on the track so that we can increase travel speed. We want to make sure that our service, if it were to come
about, provides a competitive speed in order to get between DUS and Longmont.
So continued on required infrastructure, there will be numerous drainage upgrades along the corridor. A lot
of these-- BNSF has been here for a very long time. A lot of the drainage infrastructure that they have on
the track is substandard at this point, and we are going to be modifying the trackway in many places. So
there are going to be upgrades to the drainage ways. And this will all be supported by a drainage report
that's being done by the BNSF.
Right now, there are 41 at-grade crossings on the extended corridor, and that's basically the section
between the existing Westminster Station and Longmont, 22 of which have already been established as a
quiet zone by the local communities, eight of which are currently being established.
And then anywhere that we modify a grade crossing, we will also have to look at what kind of safety
improvements might need to happen at those particular crossings. This might be a combination of gates,
perhaps medians, pedestrian facilities, channelization, fence, gates at crossings, kind of like what you see
on the A line and the G Line corridors.
We're looking at a rail maintenance facility to maintain the fleet in Longmont. And we've also identified a
mid-day layover facility location at Westminster. So we have to do something with our trains during the day.
Since we have three in the morning, three in the evening, we've got a pretty long time gap where we have
to store trains.

So I wanted to touch on the accessibility compliance piece. So we are looking at high-level boarding
platforms. That's what we're recommending for the Northwest Peak Service Study. This is the most
equitable and, really, operationally efficient arrangement that we can have on the corridor. And not just
equitable from folks that have mobility concerns but also equitable between the various stations and the
communities that they serve.
The requirements, we're looking at level boarding. This provides equal service to all Northwest corridor
stations and existing high platform B-line stations. So it's important to note that we actually have four
existing stations on the Northwest Rail which are designed right now with high platforms, those being DUS,
41st and Fox, Pecos Station, and the existing Westminster Station.
So the operating conditions associated with that low-level platform at Denver Union Station. There is a lowlevel platform at Denver Union Station. Those are tracks 4 and 5. But those are currently used by Amtrak.
So if we were to try to utilize those tracks as well, that could conflict with Amtrak operations, and it could
also conflict potentially with Front Range Passenger Rail if they were to come about in the future as well.
And then, really, we want to make sure that the B line currently right now can utilize the same track and
platform at DUS as what the Northwest Rail would since we're really looking at replacing those service runs
from the B line.
So this slide talks a little bit about high-level trains and why we would recommend a high-level train. So
high-level platforms, you end up with a high-level train. So it's important to know that low-floor trains can
never serve high platforms because, essentially, you'd open the door, and then there'd be kind of a wall in
front of you.
Mini-high blocks are really not acceptable to the Federal Transit Administration anymore. And in fact, the
Department of Transportation, which oversees the Federal Railroad Administration and the Federal Transit
Administration, have essentially come out and said that it has to be operationally infeasible before you do
a level boarding scenario. So this is the highest level of compliance that we can. And I should also note
that cost is not sufficient reasoning for noncompliance of level boarding.
So disadvantages of cars serving multiple platform heights. We went through this quite a bit, trying to look
at potential options of vehicles. But essentially, if you try to mix and match platform heights and vehicles,
you end up with scenarios where you're looking at operable lifts, platform gap fillers, bridge plates, et cetera.
Each one of these have higher design, installation, and maintenance costs.
There's also more potential for failure in those systems as well. We believe it's an inferior system. Again, it
requires more effort. It requires a lot more maintenance. And there are potentially impacts if things don't
work properly on the service, which affects our customers.
Added overall dwell times. You can imagine, if we had to deploy lifts or bridge plates, those require
operators. They also require time to deploy. And again, there are maintenance issues. And there's a
potential that you could trap patrons, potentially.
So if you can board at one of the level platforms right now, you can get on at any door. But you may not be
able to get off at any door. And that would have to be well communicated for all of our customers if we were
to try to do an intermixed high-level, low-platform scenario.
So real quick on the Peak Service Feasibility Study analysis. These are the things that we're considering
and looking at as we move through this study. Initial level of service. This is basically, what is peak service?

It's the three trips in the morning from Longmont to Denver, on the weekdays, and it's the three trips back
in the evening from Denver to Longmont.
So wanted to really dig into that and look at, what does that mean? What does that do for us as far as the
requirements, and what do we need to think about and accommodate? So the operational requirements.
What does that take to run those trains? Where do we store trains? How do we maintain those vehicles?
Again, what is the platform configuration? Siding tracks, those type of pieces that we need to take a look
at.
Obviously, we need to understand what the required infrastructure is. What do we need to build out? What
is the BNSF going to require for us in order to operate on their tracks? And how much does it cost? How
much does it cost to build those infrastructure pieces? How much does it cost to operate the system as a
whole?
We wanted to take a look at travel time. What do we think our projected time is for running between
Longmont and DUS, and vice versa? As well as the projected ridership. How many people do we think we
can project to ride it based on the current DRCOG models? And then, what are the benefits and impacts?
And I want to mention just one quick. I know there's a lot of conversation about Front Range Passenger
Rail and RTD right now, so I do want to reiterate here that our Peak Service Feasibility Study really is
focused on RTD. We need to understand what it would take for RTD to operate the Northwest Rail Peak
Service.
Now, that being said, we are taking every opportunity we possibly can to coordinate with Front Range
Passenger Rail District to look for some commonalities, look for win-win scenarios, and make sure that we
are not designing in a way that precludes a potential partnership in the future.
So looking at the common set of facts, one of the key pieces that we touched on already is the Station
Accessibility Compliance. What does that station configuration look like, and how much does that cost?
What are the siding track implications and the high-level station implications?
Track improvements and sidings. Again, this goes to the BNSF infrastructure. What do we need to build
out, as far as the BNSF is concerned, in order for them to allow us to operate peak service in our operational
windows? Acquisition Of the easement from the BNSF. So basically, when we operate on the BNSF, we
have to-- there's really kind of a real property component to the BNSF, as well as track usage, that we need
to come into an agreement with the BNSF on what those costs are in order for us to function on their
alignment. It is a private property. So there's kind of a cost to us for us to use that.
Operational cost. Operating and maintaining trains and stations. So that's why we're looking at maintenance
facilities and what it would take to provide the maintenance of those vehicles and the stations themselves.
And then, of course, there's the train operations and maintenance components of the track. So right now,
we don't know necessarily who the operator might be. It could be RTD. It could be BNSF. It could potentially
be an approved third party.
The dispatch is going to be by BNSF for their section of controlled track. But one thing that's unique to this
particular corridor is we actually have another operator already on board, Denver Transit Operators. So
there is a segment of track where they dispatch. And that's a similar scenario for the track maintenance as
well.

BNSF we believe is most likely, in our agreement, going to be responsible for the maintenance of way for
the BNSF portion of the track. But the maintenance of way for the segment that RTD owns, which is
operated by DTO, would be by DTO. And then, of course, ridership projections as well.
So some of the impacts and benefits, continuing on the common set of facts. Environmental impacts, NEPA
assessment factors. So I would like to reiterate, we are not in NEPA, which is the National Environmental
Policy Act, but the information that we're getting out of our study is going to be linkage type documents. So
we're going to be able to use those documents to bridge into a NEPA process if this were to move forward
to the next phase.
Environmental justice and equity. We are doing some preliminary equity Title VI analysis for the
maintenance facility locations, as well as service changes potentially. But again, I'd like to reiterate that
those are preliminary because you can't actually finalize those documents until you are ready to do an
actual service change and actually ready to acquire property.
Land use impacts and transit-oriented development. Working with our stakeholders, we want to make sure
that our stations are respectful of where they're going to be. We work with our stakeholders to make sure
that they fit into the community properly and that the community-- we're trying to encourage them as best
as possible to make sure that they consider land use planning in everything that they're doing around our
stations as well to help support transit.
I talked a little bit earlier, avoiding actions that preclude Front Range Passenger Rail requirements. Public
stakeholder and identification of issues. We have done multiple outreach efforts with the community to try
to understand what they're looking for and how peak service might serve their needs and what concerns
they might have over peak service.
And then touching on service characteristics. Again, we talked about, what is the travel time? It needs to
be competitive. And then, required infrastructure-- station parking and access. Again, understanding what
those components are and what the costs associated with those components is.
So I want to touch a little bit on opportunities. This really touches a lot on the Front Range Passenger Rail
and RTD conversations that are swirling around us. It seems like kind of all around us right now. Again, I
want to say that we are working on our project, which is focused on Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility,
and they are working on their Service Development Plan, which is really focused on Front Range Passenger
Rail.
But with that being said, realizing that we have two slightly different focuses between the two studies, there
are some economies that we believe are possible. And while there's a lot of detail that needs to be worked
out on each one of these things, these are kind of high level at this point. But we do think these might
opportunities that we can both tap into in order to make a potential partnership work if that's the direction
that this goes.
So probable joint operational efficiencies. You can imagine we could have the same operator, things of that
nature. Potential synergies arising from common fleet type. We could be more strategic, we could be more
efficient, and hopefully less expensive if we were to go in together to buy common fleet elements as an
example.

We could be more competitive. Right now, we're looking at a pretty small fleet that would be needed to
operate peak service. And frankly, we're not going to be super competitive given the fact that we're not
buying a lot of train sets.
Possible to share and reduce operations and maintenance costs. So we could potentially, even as an
example, share a maintenance facility, maintenance personnel, maintenance equipment, as well as split
the cost to run rail, potentially, on the BNSF corridor.
Potential to share track improvement costs. So all the curve smoothing that we talked about earlier, which
is to increase speed on the curves, just the track improvements in general to make sure that it is in sufficient
condition to run passenger rail. If we have to do it and Front Range Passenger Rail would have to do it,
those are costs that we think we could potentially come up with some cost sharing solutions.
And then, potential to share cost of safety systems and crossing upgrades. And the one that probably most
of you have heard about is Positive Train Control. Positive Train Control is a safety system that we have
currently on the A, B, and G lines as well.
If we run passenger rail on the BNSF tracks, it's going to be required that we have PTC. So if you run one
train, you've got to have it. If you run six trains, you've got to have it. You run 66 trains, you've got to have
it. So that's a good opportunity as an example.
So I wanted to touch real quickly on the community stakeholder engagement that we've been doing. 2023
activities. So what we did last year, we had two corridor-wide open house events. One was in January and
February in Boulder and Westminster, and then we had another major open house in November of last
year as well in Longmont and Broomfield.
In addition to that, we've had multiple local pop-up events. We've had about 14 community-based events
where we set up a tent and just people stopped by. We had conversations with them. We had about 900 or
so visitors at those pop-up events. A little less than that.
And then, we have monthly Study Advisory team meetings. Our Study Advisory team is made up of
stakeholders, jurisdiction representatives, and community advocacy groups throughout the Northwest area.
So we update them monthly, get feedback from them on where the study is going.
One-on-one concept design meetings. So this is really primarily around stations, meeting with the
communities to kind of plan out and design where the station locations are going to be, how they fit within
their surroundings and the planned community areas. And then we had a Board Committee Update in April
of 2023 and October 2023 to the Finance and Planning Committee.
So I want to focus just a little bit on the efforts that we've had since the last Board Update, which was in
October. So we had the November open house. That was our kind of major event that we had. During that
time period, we had about 30 attendees in Longmont and 100 attendees in Broomfield.
The RTD study website comment form. This is basically people going on to the RTD website and signing
up for distribution of email information and to provide comments. There was about a little less than 800 or
so, 785 of those filled out in that time period.
And then the Self-Guided Online Meeting, which really mirrored exactly what was in the public, in-person
open houses, it ran for about a month. And so it really gave an opportunity to people that maybe didn't have

time to fill out a form at those open events or people that maybe couldn't make those open events to see
the same content and be able to provide us with comments and information on the study.
In that online meeting, we had about 6,000 views, and then 2,600 or so of what we call engaged sessions.
So that means they actually got on to the online meeting, they actually clicked, searched through, did
surveys, provided feedback, et cetera. So they actually took some action on the web page. And then we
received about 390 or so total survey responses during that time period.
So real quick, I'll just kind of run through what we heard. I would say that a lot of what we heard is pretty
similar to what we heard in the January, February feedback earlier in the year. This particular question was,
what do you see the benefits of the peak rail service? They could pick three potential options.
By far, the largest one here was to reduce my carbon footprint, embrace a more environmentally friendly
lifestyle. The next biggest one, getting to the destination without worrying about snow, traffic delays, et
cetera. Kind of a reliability response.
And then, from there, the added time to train to give-- excuse me. Added time on the train gives them time
to work, rest, do alternate things. And then, kind of rounding out the next few, kind of all about the same
level are the cost savings on gas, insurance, safety, and relying on transit to run errands and access other
opportunities.
So the next question we asked was, what do you believe is your greatest barrier to accessing the station?
So really, the biggest one is missing sidewalks and bike lanes. So we've heard a lot from the community
up in the area that it's kind of this first and last mile connectivity is a pretty major, major concern.
Next was the missing and infrequent bus service. And then, kind of beyond that, it was the unsafe walking
and biking conditions, followed finally at the end by the lack of secure parking. So it really is more about
connectivity and movement than it is about parking, is one of the general things that we've been hearing
quite a bit about.
How can peak service be enhanced to better meet your needs and expectations? So this is, again, very
similar to what we found in January and February. The biggest one is the add weekend service. The next
one that we heard for a lot of people is the reverse direction. So a lot of these comments really came down
to the definition really of what peak service is. We know it's limited. It's limited in its direction, it's limited in
its time frame, and its frequency.
Just touch on those too. What concerns you most about peak rail service? And again, service only in one
direction. So this is kind of getting to that reverse commute response. The limited hours of operation. Again,
limited service, limited runs. And the lack of weekend or evening service.
Those were by far the three biggest ones that we heard from the community as we reached out to them.
And then, again, the next one that kind of follows up there is the connection, the first and last mile, the
connection to other transit service and destinations.
The next question is, what is the most important element to include at or adjacent to future stations? I'll be
honest with you. We kind of asked this question for just as much guidance, I think, with our stakeholders
as it is for us. So when they're looking at land use planning and what would fill in around a station and how
they might plan their communities, this is important information.

Commercial and retail spaces to shop, eat, grab, et cetera. So it's really a commercial piece. Followed then
with housing within walking or biking distance. And then, pretty level behind all that is a safe and secure
place for commuters to park, secure places for commuters to store their bikes, and enhance bicycle and
pedestrian connections to the station.
So next steps, as we move forward, we're going to continue to work on the identification of the required
infrastructure. We're compiling inventory costs for track and siding improvements, systems, crossings,
stations, and fleet. This all goes into the common set of facts. And then, we're ensuring project reflects
RTD's commitments and obligations to accessible transit.
So this is really the piece where we get into the high-level boarding, high-level trains, and how we can
provide the highest level of accessibility and access to the rail system. We're looking to complete the
common set of facts. The biggest piece of that that's outstanding right now is the BNSF component. What
are their costs for the corridor? But we want to make sure that we fully understand the feasibility of the peak
service concept and what would be required to implement this particular service.
We want to keep making sure that we continue to explore options and opportunities. We will continue-- as
Director Davidson talked about earlier, our commitment letter to the Front Range Passenger Rail District
that he and Ms. Johnson signed are, I think, evidence of our commitment to continue to work forward and
look for some opportunities.
And then, we will continue community and stakeholder engagement, identify periodic and stakeholder
touchpoints. And really, our recommendation is that this continues really beyond the peak service portion
here. So we think that the peak service is going to give us this common set of facts that really build the
foundation for what we need. And it allows us to go in with our eyes open for any kind of potential
partnership, if that happens to be the direction that we choose to go.
And with that, that concludes the presentation, and we'll answer any questions you have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Stanley, for the presentation. General Manager/CEO Johnson
and Ms. Vishwakarma, thank you for joining us here. At this time, I will open up for questions, comments
from Directors. I will start with Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. What kind of information does the DRCOG model generate? And did the- was that information available when FasTracks was put together?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Stanley?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes. DRCOG provides information on planning and growth in the region. So that
information was available. It's different now. I mean, it's updated periodically. Right now, the latest DRCOG
information that we have is actually pre-pandemic. It's 2019. And that's what we've-- that's the only
information that we actually have to base our ridership numbers on, just because there is nothing else there
right now, and we need a base, accepted growth plan model that we can base our modeling on for our
ridership.
BOB BROOM: OK. And finally, is BNSF-- have they estimated how long they're going to be in the coal
business?

PATRICK STANLEY: Good question. We don't know. You know, the BNSF operations, they keep pretty
tight to their chests on what it is. I would think, if you would ask them, that they would probably always keep
that option open for whatever might potentially come down the pipe.
That is, in general, what we found with the BNSF, is that they want as much flexibility as they possibly can
have for operating in any manner that they see fit. And they're a private entity for profit. So it's hard to fault
them for that.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Thank you, Mr. Stanley. First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I actually have a few questions that don't require long answers,
and then I have one comment. The first one, you talked about the high-level boarding recommended for
the Northwest Peak Rail Service Plan but that there is low-level boarding at Denver Union Station. What is
anticipated to mitigate that?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes, ma'am. Thank you for the question. The low-level platforms at Union Station are
tracks 4 and 5, which only serve Amtrak at the moment. So we would anticipate that we would probably
utilize track 8, which is where the current B line comes in, and that is a high-level platform.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. Very simple. You talked about track improvements, and you cited curves
and that sort of thing. And actually, just to disclose, BNSF was my client. I worked on designs for BNSF for
a number of years during my career.
So when we went down to BNSF in 2020, right before COVID, they talked about also some adjustments to
the grades. And I know that the siding links were pretty significant. You talked about 7.2 miles. That's quite
a bit of track. But I was just wondering if that was factored into some of your estimates as well?
PATRICK STANLEY: So BNSF is actually preparing the cost estimate for all the infrastructure that's going
to be required for track improvements. So they will estimate everything that's in their plans that they've
identified. I don't recall in the 20% plan seeing any grade adjustments. It was mostly curve adjustments,
things that might change, as an example, a curve from maybe a 20 mile per hour curve to a 40 mile per
hour curve.
And so what we've given the BNSF is a travel time goal. And they're basically doing their engineering to try
to hit that goal.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Oh, and I think probably the grades had to do with grade separation. So the length
of approach, that's really what made the difference in the grades. OK.
Ridership. I know we're using the DRCOG model. It seems to me that, depending on any kind of
collaboration or cooperation with Front Range Passenger Rail, that if we were to combine certain sections,
that that ridership would change if you were adding on riders from the northern communities. Are you
looking at both sets of ridership numbers or just for the Peak Service Feasibility Study?
PATRICK STANLEY: Do you want me to-- I can jump in. It doesn't matter. [LAUGHS] Yeah. So right now,
we are looking at peak service. Our focus is for understanding what the common set of facts are for the
peak service. What I would say is if we get to that point at some stage, where we do have an agreement of

some kind with Front Range Passenger Rail and there might be a partnership there, then I believe that,
yes, we would need to maybe take a look at that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And-DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may-- if I may just add additional information relative to the Front Range
Passenger Rail service side of things, recognizing that DRCOG serves as the Metropolitan Planning
Organization. And their 2050 vision plan and things of the like, that's where all the data sources come from
relative to planning.
And so I just wanted to ensure that I stated that going forward because when you look at Front Range
Passenger Rail, they incorporate an additional MPO as well. So holistically, as you talk about the numbers,
there could be different projections. But for all intents and purposes, those same numbers are coming from
DRCOG within the auspices of where we provide service relative to the Regional Transportation District
boundaries.
PEGGY CATLIN: I've done modeling in both MPOs. So yeah, I'm aware of where that comes across. And
finally, just a statement. We are paying BNSF for their 30% design and for their cost estimating. Is that part
of the $8 million that we allocated from the FISA account?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes, ma'am, it is.
PEGGY CATLIN: We're still within budget?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes, ma'am.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. That's all I have. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I've got five questions. First, this is called the Northwest Rail Peak
Service Feasibility Study. So my assumption has always been that HDR is not going to tell us whether it's
feasible or not. You guys aren't going to tell us. We're going to get all the facts, and then we're going to
make a determination whether we think it's feasible or not feasible. Is that kind of how it's envisioned?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may? I would say, that's absolutely correct. And one thing I do want
to note. Quite naturally, this feasibility study won't be complete until we get those numbers from BNSF
because we have yet to receive them as of late. We were anticipating having that information at the end of
the calendar year 2023.
We still have not received that information. So I wanted to daylight that for all of you because I think that's
incredibly important to note because we won't be able to ascertain the feasibility of it if we don't have those
costs.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. And that leads me to my second question, which is about projected ridership,
because in my mind, that's a huge component of feasibility. Because if the projected ridership numbers
come out as you're going to get a thousand people a day riding this thing and it's costing us a billion and a
half dollars, it doesn't make sense, meaning not feasible. So am I correct in assuming that's a pretty
important component of feasibility?

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, Director Buzek. That's critically important.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. And really, we're looking at what someone says is apples and fish, right? So
we've got Northwest Rail from Denver Union Station to Longmont that has 10 stops, and we've got Front
Range Passenger Rail from Denver Union Station to Longmont that has three stops. So really different
animals in a lot of ways, right?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes, that's correct. The services and the concept for each one are different, for sure.
And I think there's places where we converge, so to speak, on what we're looking for, and I think there's
places where we diverge. In particular, I think the one that kind of comes to mind is really station stops.
That is astute of you to pick up on because I think that is one of the big ones.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I think so. So Front Range Passenger Rail, do we know whether they are anticipating
using these high-level cars? Because wasn't that Amtrak car that you all went on a little choo-choo ride with
a low-level car?
SPEAKER 2: Choo-choo ride.
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry, I don't-- you know.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: I did not participate on that ride. I was actually with the FRA administrator in
Washington DC.
VINCE BUZEK: You missed it.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. But to the question in which you posed, recognizing we're talking about intercity
passenger rail, talking about commuter rail, there could be efficiencies. However, there's yet to be a service
development plan relative to FRPR.
RTD is further ahead in our assessment. So we would just be conjecturing and speculating relative to what
may be, hence Mr. Stanley did indicate some opportunities once we do have that information. But if we
were to do it today, I would say that we would be looking at a cross platform transfer somewhere along the
alignment.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. That leads me to my next question, which is we've got this overhead catenary system
currently in place. My understanding from way back was we were told that you can't take that up to
Longmont because we've got problems with bridges and things that it can't get under. And then that kind
of means we might be using those DMUs, those Diesel Multiple Units.
Would we replace-- would we just get rid of all the OC-- if this gets built. Would we get rid of all the current
OCS from Denver Union Station to Westminster and just run DMUs the whole length?

PATRICK STANLEY: If I might?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Stanley, please.
PATRICK STANLEY: You are correct in that we would not be operating the overhead catenary-powered
trains on the BNSF portion of the alignment. There are clearance issues with existing bridges that go over
the current BNSF. So we're not necessarily trying to select a specific vehicle for the purposes of this study,
but there are a lot of different options.
You could do diesel electric multiple units. You could do diesel multiple units. But I don't believe-- we haven't
contemplated removing the OCS because even one that's not OCS powered, unless you get a large double
decker, which is not something that we're looking at, we should be able to clear underneath the OCS lines
without any issue.
VINCE BUZEK: We just don't want that having to change trains somewhere.
PATRICK STANLEY: Sure. Sure.
VINCE BUZEK: Jumping off one onto another.
PATRICK STANLEY: Yeah. For us, we're looking at a one-seat ride from Longmont into DUS.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm so sorry. You used an acronym. OCS?
PATRICK STANLEY: I'm sorry. Overhead Catenary System.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
PATRICK STANLEY: It's basically the overhead electrification that powers the trains.
VINCE BUZEK: And my last question is, we've got a rescue train. Can we use it on this alignment as well?
I love that rescue train.
PATRICK STANLEY: The tug?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. That's great. Do we need a new one for this one, or does it get around? Because I
know there was a whole big thing. Where are we going to store it? Where are we going to keep it?
PATRICK STANLEY: You know, we hadn't contemplated that necessarily. We can take a look. [LAUGHS]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: No more questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. Thank you for the answers, Mr. Stanley. Director Dishell,
please.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I wanted to just put a finer point on Director Catlin's question, which was,
are we within budget? And my question is, are we on projected budget? I'm assuming, if the costs are
linear, we should be about 7/8 through, which means we should have a spend of $7 million. This last eighth
could also be much more expensive than the first portion. How are we doing on target for the last segment
that needs to be completed?
PATRICK STANLEY: We're on track to be under budget for the target. Our biggest components to the
contract are the HDR contract and the BNSF piece.
BOBBY DISHELL: And do we have BNSF's design? I know we don't have their numbers, but have their
design costs been billed normally, such that we could track it on our budget?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes. Yes, we do.
BOBBY DISHELL: And then our RTD costs, which are for the extra outreach, et cetera, are those picked
up in the $8 million or in our SG&A?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yeah. We-- I'm sorry. Go ahead. Sorry. Yes, we have staff included into the budget,
and it is being charged against the budget.
BOBBY DISHELL: And Director Guzman, I don't know what the G stands for, but the S is salary, and the A
is Administration. And it's an accounting line item. And if anyone knows what the G is-MICHAEL GUZMAN: General?
BOBBY DISHELL: General? Doug MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: General.
BOBBY DISHELL: General Thank you.
SPEAKER 3: We learned something from you.
BOBBY DISHELL: And so presumably, with each of the five milestones, there have been deliverables. Are
those available for the Board at each milestone completion? And if they're in this month's Board packet, I
apologize. I did not have the opportunity to review it in full prior to tonight.
PATRICK STANLEY: I would say they're more phases, the way they're doing it. It's not necessarily a
specific deliverable for each one of them. So we have a lot of individual reports. As an example, as you go
through, there's a traffic analysis report, a transit analysis report, an environmental report. I can go on and
on. I think there's about 20-something.
So basically, towards the end, those will be really compiled into the Executive Summary and summarized.
There's not necessarily a deliverable specific to each one of those components.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And I'm going to say this next question, recognizing that those in glass houses
may not always want to throw stones. But BNSF has been in the news a lot lately with respect to
derailments, including last night in New Mexico.

When we're talking about design standards and rail, is that a universal design standard? Are we using their
standards? Are we using our standards? How are we supposed to be squaring that, recognizing, are we
taking on additional liability because we've seen what some of that standard rail looks like? Can you help
me understand that component?
PATRICK STANLEY: So the standards that are being used are the BNSF standards. It is their track. Now,
there is a difference between running freight rail and running passenger rail. There's different requirements
associated with that. In general, you can say that freight track can slack a little more than passenger rail.
So in order to operate that, they would have to maintain the track at the levels appropriate to run the
passenger rail. So hopefully that answers your question. I don't know that we're necessarily putting
ourselves at any more risk.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: And moreover, when Mr. Stanley made reference to Positive Train Control, that's
only required on passenger railways. And so, to the point with Class I's, that's why, if RTD would go down
this path, or if it's FRPR, that's why they would incur the cost of Positive Train Control. And so that's an
important factor to take into consideration as we go forward as well.
And to Mr. Stanley's point, that Class I railroads that are carrying freight as opposed to people, this agency
would incur greater insurance premiums and things of the like. It's something that I and members of the
team have been advocating for as we have looked to the federal government in reference to having some
relief relative to being able to get insurance.
Because right now, our only options are abroad because of the high potential of risk and exposure with
railroad networks here in the United States because they're really lacking in reference to intercity passenger
rail. They are tracks that are being repurposed, for all intents, for freight.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. And maybe the 30% design phase isn't the appropriate phase. But if I'm hearing it
correctly, it's BNSF's standards, which may be-- well, which are necessarily different and possibly lower
than the standard RTD would be held to if RTD were to go out and build passenger track. Or is the track
the same, and it's just the PTC that's different?
PATRICK STANLEY: In general, what I would say is that even the BNSF standards and RTD standards
actually have to comply with other regulations. AREMA, as an example, is really the big one that would
provide guidance for how they would design and maintain their tracks. Same with us. We actually use
AREMA as well.
So I think hopefully that answers the question. There is a larger guiding criteria beyond just the BNSF kind
of picking their own criteria.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Got it. Because I know they benefit from deregulation as of late. And then, are we
being impacted, from a timing perspective, by the furloughs at BNSF? Is that hitting the staff that we're
working with?
PATRICK STANLEY: We have not heard anything from them on that. In fact, I would say that the people
that were involved with have been pretty consistent, and I don't see any drop off at the moment.

BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Patrick, that was very helpful, as some of your
other public engagement has been. You mentioned that the modeling we have from DRCOG is prepandemic, from 2019, and that we need a growth plan model for ridership.
I'm assuming that that's one that looks at the growth in the region over the next 30, 50 years, whatever. Do
we have that? Is that coming? Is that not in the DRCOG 2050 plan?
PATRICK STANLEY: DRCOG is working on an update, is my understanding. I don't remember exactly-we made a presentation to DRCOG probably about six months ago, and they said they were working on it.
I don't remember exactly when they said they would have it, but it's not going to be within the duration of
the peak service study.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So will we get ridership numbers?
PATRICK STANLEY: We will have ridership numbers. Unfortunately, they're going to be based on 2019
data, which is as current as we have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And when do you expect you'll be having those?
PATRICK STANLEY: You know, honestly, it's one of those things, I think, until we-- I would say it's towards
the end of the study. We want to make sure that we have all of-- one of the things we're very concerned
about is we don't want to release information premature and have to walk it back and erode public trust. So
we want to make sure that we have all of our ducks in a row before we release any of that. So I would say
it's going to be towards the end of the study.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And what about travel time? Do we have those numbers yet, or are those
coming later too?
PATRICK STANLEY: That one I think we can tell you. So we had a consultant do some modeling for us.
Hatch is the consultant. And they looked at, basically, the track configuration. I thought it was reasonable
for us to hit about mid 60s, 65 minutes or so, plus or minus a little bit. So that's the number that we've
provided to BNSF is 65 minutes, plus or minus 2 minutes, so that when they're doing their design, that's
kind of the basis for when they're looking at curve smoothing and curve adjustments and that nature.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's Longmont to Union Station?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do you have that split out? I'm not asking you to remember all of them tonight,
but-PATRICK STANLEY: We do have a document that we could split out for you, if you're interested. We could
provide that after.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And right now, we're modeling 10 stations along that route?

PATRICK STANLEY: Yes. It models all the existing stations and the new stations.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
PATRICK STANLEY: Yeah. And I would say, on that number though, that is-- again, that's a model. That's
a study. So until we really dig into it, there could be some adjustments a little-LYNN GUISSINGER: On the stations? Is that what you mean?
PATRICK STANLEY: No, on the time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
PATRICK STANLEY: So.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Thanks.
PATRICK STANLEY: Sure.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Director Harwick, please.
IAN HARWICK: Sorry, I got a boatload of questions too. So in no particular order, do we have a timeline on
when we know when BNSF will tell us how much they're going to charge us to do this?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes, and Ms. Johnson touched on that earlier. Per our agreement, they're supposed
to have that really to us at the end of May, early June.
IAN HARWICK: OK.
PATRICK STANLEY: For the final. But as Ms. Johnson mentioned, right now we have not received the 20%
ROM that they were supposed to. They're still working on that. So I guess stay tuned a little bit on that.
We're still pushing them pretty hard to make sure that we get that number in that time frame.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Sorry, I missed that when you said that. So as we're proceeding-- hypothetically, as
we're proceeding with this, let's say it's either with Front Range Passenger Rail or without, if we do all these
enhancements-- and I think I already know the answer, but if we do this, is BNSF going to-- as they're going
to benefit from all of these enhancements, are they going to share any of this cost, or are we fitting the
whole bill, even though they'll benefit from it in theory?
PATRICK STANLEY: Sure. I think one thing that's important to keep in mind is, but not for us, the BNSF
would probably not be doing any of these improvements. They can run their operations currently as they
are. So it's difficult, I think, for us to say that we're not the cause of these improvements.
They can always do slow orders and run their trains slower and a bunch of other things operationally that
don't necessarily work for us. So all the impacts, yes, they will get benefit out of it. But I think the answer
that we get from BNSF is, we don't have to do any of this stuff, so why would we pay for any of this? It's
really, you guys are the ones causing us to make these improvements.
IAN HARWICK: I figured that was the case, but let's see here.

PATRICK STANLEY: That doesn't mean we'll just kind of give up and not push back on them. But that's, I
think, the nature of the beast.
IAN HARWICK: Sure. And so then my-- I'll try to stay on this one. So then, hypothetically, if we're doing
we're doing three in the morning, three in the afternoon, if we find that ridership is substantially higher than
expected, how quickly can we scale up service if necessary?
PATRICK STANLEY: That's an interesting question, and I think it really depends on the nature of the service
that we're scaling up. So if it's reverse commute, as an example, and say maybe we're able to get a large
enough time window in our peak period, we might have enough room in that time window to run, as an
example, a return trip, potentially.
There's an infrastructure component to that in the fact that you're running two-way trains, and you might
have to do some infrastructure improvements to make sure that you can pass. So it just depends on what
it is. If it's additional frequency, it's additional trips on the track.
And our agreement with BNSF, depends on how flexible we can make it, is going to be one of the key
components as well. So any time we change that agreement, that operational agreement with BNSF, we
are potentially having to enter in a new negotiation for what that new service level might be. And I would
say that that is a fairly lengthy process.
And again, just depending on what it is, if we have to build infrastructure, that's obviously going to take
longer than if it's maybe just a dispatching and maintenance type questions for BNSF. Hopefully that
answers your question OK. It really just kind of depends on what it is a little bit.
IAN HARWICK: OK. This is my last question and may or may not be for you. So obviously, there's a lot of
other-- there's a few other lines that we've promised through FasTracks. And this is probably-- this was
probably answered before I was a Board member. But why are we doing this one first, and why are we not
looking at the L line continuation or something else?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Harwick, I think I can address your question on that. At the time, there had been the
concept of looking at the peak service feasibility, or the peak service plan had been proposed before
COVID, before my time on the Board, as an alternative path given the high expense of the Northwest Rail.
The cost numbers and ridership numbers had been roughly estimated but not really refreshed. So one input
was deciding to take a look at that peak service feasibility since that had been proposed in 2019 but not
had the cost looked at. And then, also, right around the time that the Board authorized this study, there was
the predecessor of the Front Range Passenger Rail District, the Southwest Chief and Front Range
Passenger Rail Commission, was looking at and contemplating intercity passenger rail across the Front
Range.
The conclusion of the Board at the time was, really, the only realistic path forward as it relates to Northwest
Rail is to look at what partnership opportunities might present themselves. We did have some discussion
about the hypothetical possibility that the operational model of the contemplated peak service feasibility-or peak service-- could align with what a broader project would look like.
So I believe, actually, simultaneous, at the same meeting, or at least in the same month, that we authorized
the MOU, the cooperation agreement between CDOT, RTD, and the Southwest Chief and Front Range
Passenger rail. At the same time, then, we authorized proceeding with this study, which was really to look
at, what are the costs? What is the feasibility of our most expensive outstanding FasTracks corridor? And

then be in a position down the road-- and I think we're approaching that point-- to look at whether or not
there is the potential for aligning with partners.
Thank you, Director Harwick. I'm going to go in the order I saw the hands. Director Ruscha online, please.

Part 3
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I have a piggyback on Director Harwick's question. And then I have
a few other questions. So does this mean that the other unfinished FasTracks projects, like Southwest or
the L line, I mean, has the Board, essentially, just taken up-- do we have a policy that says we've put those
aside until we have figured out the Northwest Rail question? And it's not meant to be a Gotcha. I've just
noticed that it almost feels like those projects have just dropped off our radar, even though, I mean,
theoretically, in our FISA account, we could pay for at least one of them without going into further debt.
So just if you could explain a little bit more, Have we said, as it relates to these other projects, they're on
pause until we have solved this question one way or another?
Thank you, Director Ruscha. No, that's not my understanding. We did have a policy. And I will need to look
back at when this was passed. That was a commitment to the unfinished corridors. I believe it was around
the time of the unfinished corridors report with DRCOG The Board certainly has not taken a policy to move
away from those other unfinished corridors.
I think practically speaking, for the reasons that we discussed, with this being one of the most expensive
outstanding projects, with the proposal to look at the Peak Service Plan in 2019 and then, ultimately, doing
so when the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission was looking at the possibility of a broader plan, I
think that did take up a lot of the resources and emphasis. But certainly, no policy has prioritized or pulled
away the commitment to the unfinished corridors.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. If I may make a comment before my next question,
I do think we've given the impression that is our policy because that is our practice right now. And I hope
that we can do some course correction on that framing. But I do have questions about the study, if I may.
So when FRPR talked about positive train control costs, they said something between 200 and 350 million.
And I'm assuming that also is because they're talking about going all the way up to Fort Collins. Is that true?
Or is that our estimate as well? Is there someone who can address what we think the PTC range would be
if we were to move forward on commuter rail for the Northwest segment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I see Mr. Stanley unmuted.
PATRICK STANLEY: Yeah, I can address that to some extent here. I don't know exactly the basis of the
number that Andy put out there. So I can't necessarily speak to that. What I can say on our cost is that's
still part of what we're still investigating. So we don't really have a set number on that just yet. That's actually
part of the BNSF scope of work.

They actually use a system. It's similar to CTC, is what their system is. But the train control that would be
on the corridor for our segment would be part of the BNSF scope of work to define what that cost is. And
we don't have that number yet.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. And I don't want to play Gotcha, and if we don't have the number, we don't have
the number. But when someone says, 200 million to 300 million, and that was on a white paper that our
name was on, that's a really wide range. And so I mean, even if we had a range, it would be good to know.
Maybe that's a followup question because that number just when I read it in that joint white paper really
jumped out at me.
And then as far as an agreement with BNSF-- this is my ignorance showing here-- how long do those
agreements last? And how are they renegotiated? Does that make sense?
I would just think that BNSF would increase the cost over time. Or how does that work? How would we be
able to build in that cost control in an agreement like that or budget long term?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Stanley.
PATRICK STANLEY: Yeah, I can answer that, I think. So obviously, the way we negotiate the deal would
dictate that to some extent. I would say that some of the other examples that we've looked at-- I think
Northstar in Minneapolis as an example-- these are very long-term agreements, typically, unless you modify
it at some stage to add different service. And in fact, I think on some of them, I don't think there's really an
end date. It's almost like an in perpetuity kind of contract.
So obviously, I think if we were to move forward, that's what we would aim for, is a long-term agreement.
And that is not atypical. That's a typical scenario for the BNSF agreements. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. That is good to know. And I know that we're not done yet. And I
understand if you can't give me an answer. But do we even have a preliminary, even if it's a range ballpark,
based on what we know right now and where you are in your study of what this would cost us? Or is this
something that we are not even going to say out loud until we have more final numbers?
And I also just want to apologize in advance. I'm not trying to get anyone in trouble. But this far in, do we
have a sense? Because just for context, previously we did have estimates. You know what I mean. We've
done a little bit of modeling. And I would just like to get a general sense of even if it is a range, where we
think, based on what we know, where we would end up.
PATRICK STANLEY: I would say, in general, we have a rough idea. But there's a lot of moving parts right
now.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sure.
PATRICK STANLEY: So I think it would be premature, I think, for us to even issue a range at this point.
Because the BNSF is probably one of the major components of it. And without knowing what that number
is from the BNSF, I would be very hesitant to actually put any kind of range out there right now, because
that could be misconstrued by somebody. And at that point, we would put another real number out at the
end of the day, and now all of a sudden, we've got multiple numbers floating out out there.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Mr. Stanley, for that. And I just want to reflect on the
comments that Mr. Davidson-- or Chair Davidson, excuse me, referenced, how we came to be with this
project. I can remember specifically when I took this job, and I was getting questions about this project, I
asked the Board-- or recommended to the Board that we actually establish a common set of facts.
So with that as a backdrop, we would be remiss to sit in this room and say what the costs are, because that
was what was happening previously. And then in recognizing that nobody knows the cost or the conditions
of the track, that is totally BNSF's operation, recognizing they are a for-profit entity, as Mr. Stanley
referenced. We can negotiate.
But for all intents and purposes, he could sit here and give a number that, basically, would be not very
conducive for this effort as we go forward, recognizing we have not received not one single cost from BNSF.
So I just wanted to state that for the record. No one's trying to be cagey, but we would be, I would say,
negligent to put forward a number in which we had no facts in which that's predicated upon. Thank you,
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank General Manager CEO. And then if I may just briefly-- yeah, thank you. I think
precision is the key here. This was one of the challenges with that unfinished corridor report. And our
estimates at the point was a discussion region-wide about a potential lack of precision of ridership, numbers,
and costs. So thank you for that. Director Ruscha, please, back to you for additional questions, comments.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And also, thank you, GM Johnson, for that comment. I'm in agreement
that it would be irresponsible to speak to costs if we have these major variables that are just unknown. And
it might almost be like a repeat of 2004. And so I completely understand and I respect that. I respect that
answer. And I don't think that you were trying to be cagey at all. So I do appreciate that.
And I would just say-- I don't want to get too off topic, but I would just say that I really hope this Board also
engages or goes back to that unfinished corridor report-- I think it was 2018-- and even if it has to be on a
smaller scale, that we take a look at those other unfinished FasTracks projects and what those might cost.
Because I think that is also our responsibility, as well, to the taxpayer. This one here, because of the nature
of the project, is maybe a little bit more complex. So I completely understand that answer.
And this next one is-- maybe we can't answer it. But do we have this, even based on old numbers, in a
long-term financial plan still? I know in the past, we said maybe we can bring this in the 2040s or something.
But I am worried that we're setting an expectation something is going to happen that ultimately, we might
not be able to pay for.
And just so you know, when we talk about our finances, short, medium, and long term-- maybe I'm just too
new here-- I don't see where the money would come from. And so I guess I'm asking-- we can't unlock a
train to Boulder with this simple trick called the FISA. Do we even have any kind of preliminary modeling
that suggests that we could cover some of these costs? Or are we not there yet? I guess is that question.
And I hope I didn't ask a leading question. And I'm not trying to ask a Gotcha question. But if there's anyone
that could address that, I would appreciate. And then in addition to that, maybe in the answer, is it
reasonable to expect that if we were to move forward with this, with or without Front Range Passenger Rail,
knowing what we know, will we have to take on extra debt, additional FasTracks debt?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I think just a short answer is we're not quite there yet with
this. But I do see General Manager and CEO Johnson is unmuted. And we'll yield the floor.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Chair Davidson. And Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the
question. So recognizing where we are, for all intents and purposes, why the general populace is unpleased
with RTD is because we stated that we couldn't fund this project until 2045 or 2050. I've asked Mr. MacLeod
to address this more specifically relative to our current budget forecasting. Mr. MacLeod?
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. We do not have any of the
capital costs or the operating costs forecasted in our plans of these additional unfinished corridors. The
statement at the time that we stopped building was that until we have identified funding, we will not include
any of those additional expansionary projects in our forecast.
Currently, the most recent 30-year forecast was completed in 2019 with DRCOG. And we have not updated
that since that time, with the exception of the Reimagine forecast, where there are certain assumptions
made with population growth, et cetera. But I don't believe in that one there's any additional expansionary
rail lines necessarily contemplated. It's more for expansion of overall system-wide service for population
growth.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you so much. And just one more question-- we received an email in general-or excuse me, in our comments, suggesting that we could partner with FRPR and combine resources and
get both of these studies done within the time frame of Senate Bill 184. And I don't want to bring that
conversation to this conversation. But it is related.
And not being familiar with how these studies go, I'm going to defer to staff on this one. And I was just
wondering if there's anyone who could address that? Does that make sense? Is it really that simple that we
could maybe do a change order, knock our heads together more than we already have, speed this up, and
providing BNSF, provides costs and such, we could get this done within couple month time frame? Is that
a reasonable expectation?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I turn to General Manager and CEO Johnson with respect
to the Peak Service.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. If I heard the question correctly, you were referencing what was stated in the bill
regarding the timeline to have a report about a path forward. Is that correct in what I heard?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, ma'am, and we also did receive written public comment suggesting that to move
forward with our study as is, the way it's scoped is almost a waste of taxpayer dollars because the
expectation of what we're studying might change, and it is actually feasible to change course and meet
those expectations.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr. Chair, thank you very much, Director Ruscha, for the clarification. I
believe Mr. Stanley stated it very well that the undertaking we have here is totally within the auspices of
RTD to determine the feasibility of the Northwest Rail feasibility service. That's the intent.
As it relates to the bill, in and of itself, recognizing that we do have a scope that we put out for bid via public
solicitation, this is what we're obligated to do relative to the commitment and the delegation that you all
provided to me and I, in turn, provided to staff as we move forward with this feasibility study. In relationship
to what's cited in the bill, I think if anything, the intent is to look at what might be most fruitful relative to
capitalizing on operational efficiencies.

Now, traditionally, sure, one could put out a solicitation calling for what needs to happen and have subject
matter experts do that. And contingent upon the scope or the statement of work that's provided, that could
be done in a 90-day frame if, in fact, you have already done the solicitation, you have proposers, and you've
issued a notice to proceed. I do think that is very unlikely that that could come to fruition in such a short
period of time. That is my experience as a professional being in this space for 32 years.
I can't, basically, opine on what the drafters are thinking. But I have been clear and have shared that with
the Chair and members of the team, that while we're looking at what might be feasible, that's with all the
other leg work being done. And the study could be done in 90 days, but you have to do the front end and
the back end as well. Thanks.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And just this final comment, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for that. I asked the
question because I did want to defer to staff. And when we do get comments like that, they're pretty serious,
especially if there's an accusation that we're wasting taxpayer dollars by moving forward as is. But I hear
you, and I trust you, and I trust our team. And I also just want to say, thank you for this presentation.
And also, thank you, Patrick, for being so patient with all of our questions, some of which we might have
asked before. And I look forward to the next update. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Thank you for the thumbs up, Mr. Stanley. Director
Rosenthal, please.
SPEAKER 1: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Speaking of timelines, I do see that it is 9:35. So I'll just make a couple
comments which are questions, and then you don't happy to answer. Just keep them in mind as we go
forward. And perhaps others will. Because I know we have other things on the agenda.
So one thing is-- and maybe this does fit or does not fit. The presentation does talk about operational
requirements. And so will we be able to attract and retain operators and maintenance facility staff and other
staffing levels in order to operate this project, the Peak Service? Another observation/question is-- there
was a statement about upgrading drainage. And so I guess that calls to mind the 16th Street Mall Project,
is when you start to dig down, What else are you going to find? And is that going to add cost and time to
this project?
A long time ago, I used to work for Level 3 Communications, which laid fiber optic cable conduits along that
route, which, as I notice on the map, now Level 3 doesn't exist anymore. But it's acquired by Lumen. And
so now I'm just saying, that's along that BNSF route. And so I guess that is a major concern that I have.
And then finally, is it also part of your study how this would impact the Flatiron Flyer? And in terms of
ridership, would it take ridership away from the Flatiron Flyer at a time when there's an expectation we will
increase service on the Flatiron Flyer? And so would we be creating this new service? Would we be
elevating the Flatiron Flyer? So how do those impact each other? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal, and thank you for the willingness to table some of those
questions. Just to summarize to make sure I have that, you're asking about the staffing levels for operation
as a consideration, consideration of potential unforeseen costs related to drainage and a question around
impact of ridership on other services, in this case, particularly, the Flatiron Flyer? If it's OK with you, given
that the first two are some considerations, I would open the floor just to Mr. Stanley or if General Manager
and CEO Johnson wants to comment on whether there's been any consideration of alternative routes in
any impact.

DEBRA JOHNSON: I'll take that question because I see that being overarching, as we're talking about
people power and service delivery and things of the like, so recognizing that Mr. Stanley did talk about our
existing B line, and we do have a concessionaire agreement, it's quite likely that we would be engaging in
discussions with the Denver Transit operators. We do have a 30-year concessionaire agreement with them,
And. We're in year 5 or 6, I believe.
And so as we talk about where we are collectively, that's something else that we'd have to go to the table
to negotiate as we look for any other options relative to service delivery along the corridor that would expand
the B line.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO. Director Rosenthal, does that cover? Great.
Thank you. Director Lewis.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah, just quickly, train riders have to be subsidized. It's not a question of if. It's how much.
So I'm curious, in your report, when you start getting your numbers, will you be giving us subsidizing
numbers? And compared to other projects that are similar size-- I think you had mentioned Minnesota. So
we would need to know how much we'll be subsidizing each rider and compared to other cities of like size.
So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Stanley?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yeah, thank you for the question. I don't know that we've necessarily considered
specifically breaking it down in that manner. But we can take a look at that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Stanley. Thank you, Director Lewis. Secretary Guzman, please.
SPEAKER 3: I'll be quick. It's a comment. Thank you for all of the hard work. I would just like to point out
for the public and for everybody in this room, we have mentioned in this one conversation DRCOG, FRPR,
RTD, all of the excellence in this room, all of the brilliance and the expertise that we have hired at this
agency, with multiple questions coming from multiple directors in every aspect of this build that we have
been following for so long. And we have done it without needing to be told to do so. Why?
Because you have elected representatives sitting here, thinking about the future of public transportation.
And we are looking at this as a whole district, not parochially, not worried about what's happening in any of
our sub-districts. We are working together. And so I wanted to get that on the record before we move on to
the next item of business because we don't need anybody's permission or direction to do our job as
Directors. That's why we're here. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Not seeing any further comments or questions on this
item, I, too, would just like to say, thank you very much. A tremendous amount of expertise and work has
gone into this. Very much appreciate this. And most of all, again, as I've said time and time again, I thank
the entire team for the engagement with the community and working collaboratively and precisely with
everybody throughout this.
So with that, thank you very much for the presentation. Thank you, everybody, for the questions and the
discussion. We will move on with the agenda. I will entertain a motion. Everything that we have here is
pretty essential that we complete. So given our recent four-hour change bylaw, I would entertain a motion.
SPEAKER 4: I move to extend the meeting for 90 minutes, just to try to keep a consistent, concise focus
on the next segment.

ERIK DAVIDSON: A second, do I hear a second?
SPEAKER 5: I'll second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. All right, I hear a second. Any No votes on that? Director Buzek, one No, No
vote. Any other No votes?
SPEAKER 6: We need to get public participation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, the motion does pass with the movement as Director Dishell Second as Director
Guissinger for 90 minutes from now. We are going to move on. I see that some people have taken some
breaks here from Directors. So we're just going to keep moving here so we can get through the agenda.
We will now move to the unanimous consent portion of the agenda. There is one unanimous consent item
on the agenda listed as Section 17, action A. This is for the General Manager and CEO total compensation
market analysis and annual 360 performance assessment tool contract solicitation. Do I have a motion?
SPEAKER 2: So moved.
SPEAKER 8: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Catlin as the movement, second as Bouquet. Do I have any discussion on this?
All right, are there any-- oh, sorry. If we need to pull from the unanimous consent, if we're going to discuss- Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It's fine, in the interest of time, we can keep going.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Are there any No votes? All right, seeing none, the motion will pass with
15 Aye votes. I have 0 No votes, and 0 abstentions. We'll now move to the recommended actions portion
of the agenda. I do have a couple of comments here about this. We're going to make some adjustments.
There are seven recommended actions on the agenda.
As you may have noticed when reviewing the Board agenda, there are two items coming forward for our
collective consideration that did not first go through a committee. Those items be Senate Bill 24-184, Amend
Position, and C, Downtown Rail Intersection Reconstruction Contract Award, were added to the agenda
per Bylaws Article V, Conduct of Business, Section 3, the regular Board meeting agenda B and C1, Chair's
discretion in items from the General Manager.
Given the significant public interest in items D and E and given the tremendous patience of staff here, which
are the May 2024 Title Vi Service Equity Analysis and the May 2024 Service Change Proposals, I'm going
to ask that those items be taken before any other recommended actions. Once through these items, we will
return to what is now listed as item B, Senate Bill 184, amend position and proceed accordingly. Is there
any objection to the slight reordering of business this evening? All right, thank you.
So with that, I appreciate the flexibility. We will move forward with item D from the agenda, which is the May
2024 Title Vi Service Equity Analysis. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt a Title Vi Service Equity
Analysis Report for the May 2024 service change to comply with federal laws, regulations, and guidelines
related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Do I hear a motion?
SPEAKER 9: So moved.

SPEAKER: Second, Sloan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Buzek is the movement, second as the Sloan. But the Sloan, you gained a title.
[LAUGHTER]

All right, at this time, I will hand over to General Manager CEO Johnson and your staff for any presentation
and pertinent information on the item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. We have staff present and readily available,
recognizing we did go through this at the Operations and Safety Committee relative to the Service Equity
Analysis. Staff is readily available to address any questions unless there is a desire for the presentation.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think questions and discussion is fine. Do I have any discussion questions for staff
here? Secretary Guzman.
SPEAKER 3: I'll be quick. I said in Operations. I will repeat it here. We need to make the meetings
accessible and meet people where they're at and during times that hourly wage workers will be able to
attend, as I have received a number of comments regarding the Operations and Safety Committee that
people would have been prevented from going to those meetings because of their shifts and scheduled
work that do rely on public transportation specifically within the area. That was presented and talked about
at a disadvantage because of the financial and economic situation that they are in. And so if we're trying to
really look out for them, we need to make them more accessible. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: To that comment, Director Guzman, you have my commitment that we are going to
leverage additional opportunities for people to engage I have spoken with the Chief Communications and
Engagement Officer because I think it's incumbent upon all of us to work collectively and cooperatively to
ensure that we can meet people where they are. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I will also be brief. I made these comments in committee, and I just
want to echo what Director Guzman-- excuse me, Secretary Guzman just said, that we need to make sure
that these meetings are more accessible. But in addition, we also have, as part of our Title Vi plan, we have
a public participation plan that is policy that was set by the Board. And in effect, that is also our district
policy. And I just don't believe that we met our expectations in that regard.
We know we don't just do public engagement when a service change might meet that 25% threshold. And
then we focus on one line or one segment. And so I recognize we also have some staffing challenges.
And I also recognize we've made improvements in that engagement, in our engagement processes. I don't
feel like we're there yet. So I voted No in committee. I'll be a No vote today for that reason. I also heard

General Manager Johnson saying that she's committed to improving that process. I believe her, and I look
forward to seeing those improvements as the year goes on.
And I would just finally state, as it relates to doing that district-wide engagement, I did also receive a lot of
comments from my constituents and constituent groups and elected officials that they were not notified that
we were going through a service change process and that they were able to make comments. And so,
again, there's always time for change and always time for improvement.
But I did feel like I had to explain my No vote tonight. And that No vote is not to say I don't think that we
can't improve, but I just can't get comfortable with the performance that we had for this service change
relative to community participation. It's not a knock on staff. Ultimately, it's leadership. And that includes the
Board. It's our responsibility. So thank you very much for allowing me to make a comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any questions for staff? Seeing none, I will-- oh, sorry,
Director Harwick, please.
SPEAKER 11: Just quick question, there's been this implied from outside that these service changes were
going to be made permanent. Were they going to be permanent?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Just a point of order, I think that'll be on the next item, Director Harwick.
SPEAKER 11: Oh, next item?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
SPEAKER 11: Sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Any other questions regarding the Title Vi Service Equity Analysis for the
May 2024 service change? Director Dishell.
SPEAKER 12: Yeah, thank you. Just one quick question-- these routes run very-- the reduction in the
FreeMallRide and the increase in the Free Metro Ride run-- or I get that backwards. I got that backwards-run very, very close together. But there's a 2,000-job roughly, 2,000-job delta in the reduced access to jobs,
versus increased access to jobs. I don't need a response now, but it would just be good to understand the
methodology of why that delta exists, given the buses run 2 and 1/2 blocks apart, 3 blocks apart.
SPEAKER 13: Chairman [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER 12: [INAUDIBLE] it's quick.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, Mr. Green.
SPEAKER 13: [INAUDIBLE] Director.
[AUDIO OUT]
Excited. Carl Green, Jr., Civil Rights Director. That is a great question. And the way that we do that
assessment is really looking at the centroid of the bus route for the free MallRide and the free Metro rides.
So using that quarter of a mile threshold buffer around the route is how we come up with the assessment
for the key public activity centers.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Green, for the answer. Thank you, Director Dishell. Any
further questions? All right, with that, I will call for the vote. I will do it as, Are there any No votes? Please
raise your hand or virtual hand if you are a No. All right, I see two No votes. Those are the No votes being
Directors Ruscha and Guzman. With two No votes and 13 Aye votes, 0 abstentions, the motion will pass.
Thank you sincerely for being here and taking the time waiting to be available for a question there. Thank
you.
We'll now move on to our May 2024 service change proposals. This is for the Board of Directors to approve
the May 2024 service changes as revised and summarized in attachment A and to authorize the General
Manager and CEO or her designee to execute contract amendments, as necessary, for private operators
impacted by these changes. Do I hear a motion?
SPEAKER: So moved.
SPEAKER 14: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Sloan is the movement, second Whitmore. That, I would entertain a motion to
accept for the amendment before we enter into discussion.
SPEAKER: I move to accept the amendment offered by staff, and I look forward to the explanation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, I hear a motion from Director Sloan to accept staff's recommended amendment. Do
I hear a second?
SPEAKER 3: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard the second as Guzman. With that, under discussion now will be the May service
changes. And in particular, we will now be discussing the staff recommended amendment to the May 2024
service changes. I will hand over the floor first to General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson to share any
additional information regarding this item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Once again, Debra Johnson, General Manager
and CEO. As it relates to this topic here regarding the service changes, I believe that we've had some
robust discussion. I am joined here by Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development, in addition
to Dave Jensen, ADM of Rail Operations, and Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.
Recognizing where we are, I intentionally wanted these gentlemen to be at the table to field questions
because there is very critical components as we talk about where we are with our transportation network,
and wanted to provide context for the discussion that ensued relative to these changes that were put
forward, recognizing that we do have three service changes a year, pursuant to our collective bargaining
agreement with the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001. It's not just about altering service, but also
giving our employees an opportunity to pick their shifts as we go forward.
Recognizing that it's critically important that we maintain our assets in a state of good repair, while we do
have the near term downtown rail reconstruction project and the coping panel project, I'd be remiss not to
state that we were looking at the schedule through the lens of ensuring that we could adhere to our safety
management systems, our public transit agency safety plan, by just doing typical maintenance work that

oftentimes, we didn't have the opportunity to do, because of the limited maintenance window that we have.
We also know that we need to provide service.
But there is a trade off. Oftentimes, we have heard conversations that have ensued relative to looking at
other transit agencies across the country and leveraging opportunities that we could utilize here by looking
at what they've done. I'd be remiss in not stating that oftentimes, with these other networks that we're
comparing ourselves to, they're configured a lot differently. We're talking about heavy rail, versus light rail.
We're talking about double track, sometimes three tracks, versus one track, that we have here.
Perhaps that was done during value engineering for the betterment of being good fiduciaries of taxpayer
dollars, but without the foresight of seeing, How will we maintain this network? Our downtown rail is now
30 years old. But we do have to ensure that we're doing regular inspections. So with that context,
recognizing that we are trying to serve two masters here, we went back. I had staff lean in, recognizing the
conversations that ensued.
And to a question that Director Harwick made on the previous item, when we talk about, Are changes
permanent? I believe what Mr. Carter said, that permanent is as permanent can be as we went forward
with the service change. So each service change could be different relative to what we're actually
assessing. And that's why it was critically important to me, being the leader of the organization, to go back
and actually roll up our sleeves to discern what's happening.
Also, as I stated before, you have a commitment from me that we're going to engage in a much different
fashion relative to actually having our modality leads be present at the meetings, as well, and
communication staff, so we garner a better understanding about what is what. Mr. Carter is very well
qualified. He is a great asset to the organization, but service planning goes into service delivery. And we
need to look at that as a hand in glove. So with that, I'm going to yield the floor to my capable team to
address questions relative to the modifications we made that we believe is for the betterment of our
operating environment, as well as for our customers as a whole. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. Mr. Carter and Mr. Worthen, we thank
you very much for being here-- Mr. Jensen-- to be available for questions. I'll open up the floor for questions
from Directors. I would ask, just given the time here, to please focus in on questions that will inform your
decision on the Yes or No vote on the May 2024 service change, starting with Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you for that guidance. I'm going to ask a few questions
that I was not able to get answered prior to this meeting, if that's all right. So as it relates to the 45 rerouting,
the maps that we were given reference to stops-- and those stops already had numbers assigned to them.
And I think I know the answer, but I just want to be clear. Are we moving stops and keeping the same
numbers? Or are those just the same stops, and they were referenced in a map, and that just might not
have been clear? I understand the detour. I know where Airport Road is. But I just wanted to-- well, to make
sure that I know what it is that I'm voting on relative to the 45, which is a critical-- I apologize. I had my
camera off-- which is a critical bus route in my district between Montbello and Green Valley Ranch.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may ?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Carter, please.
JESSIE CARTER: Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development. Thank you, Director Ruscha.
That's a great question. It was contained on the map that was a part of the Board report, but it wasn't clear

that we were adding two stops onto Airport Way. So those new stops will provide access to a Costco that
has been recently located at that location or in the vicinity.
And we are moving the route off of Pena Boulevard, which we experienced quite a bit of congestion and,
therefore, delay in time. I do want to mention that this was a change that was brought about by
conversations with bus operators letting us know that there was both the opportunity to use a different
roadway and a way of solving congestion problems that they experienced day to day. So I hope that
answers your question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, I think it does. Just moving forward, if we could just be just a little bit more clear,
particularly when folks in the community see stuff like that, there's going to be a question of, Are there
winners and losers? And I think my confusion was simply that the stops noted already had numbers that
were using, right now. And then I was wondering, Is there a stop I don't know that exists? But thank you for
that explanation.
And I also do appreciate that operators brought that suggestion to us. And I do think that will be an
improvement in that route. And it does provide additional access to the Costco. So thank you for that
clarification.
And the second question I have, and I just want to make extra, extra sure as it relates to the R line. In
previous documents-- we've been given several packets now-- the R line was listed under service span
reduction, which I completely understand. It was also listed under just general reduction. Whereas, our
other light rails that only had the service span reduction, you know what I mean? They weren't listed twice.
And there was also a comment about some minor changes to account for some necessary slowing in the
corridor. So can you expand upon that? Will there be some additional reductions on the R line in addition
to that service span? And what might that look like? Is it maybe just one or two runs?
Because it didn't sound to me like we're talking about reducing the frequency. But again, it did say that word
"reduction." And it wasn't a specific list that said reductions in service. And it looked different than the other
lines. So if you could touch on that, Mr. Carter, I would appreciate that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Carter, please.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, with that, and thank you for bringing that up. The R line was listed under mixed
changes. And it was also listed under reductions. The mixed changes were because we are actually going
to have to make some schedule adjustments to the R as it relates to the H line being delayed. And in the
shared area, we're going to have to make some minor schedule tweaks.
Now, that does not result in a reduction of service. It results in a change to schedule. And just wondering if
that answers your question?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think so. I can't hear you very well, Mr. Carter. So I'm looking at the transcripts. We
can follow up offline. But I think that does answer my question. And then if the Chair will permit, I do have
a question about minor tweaks to service changes that might happen in the interim if-ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So as I noted in committee and we followed up via email, I have a
constituent who has said that the FF schedule has changed by a few minutes. And now he's missing his
connection from the A line. And I was actually just wondering, as a matter of policy, Is that something that
sometimes we do, we make these very, very tiny tweaks? Or is it that this is just an on-time performance
issue? Does that make sense?
And so let's say three months from now or two months from now, we realize we do need a very small tweak
in a schedule. Is that something staff is able to do without going through this entire process, If it is small
enough? And if that's something that has to be answered offline for time, I totally understand. It's been a
pressing question for the last three weeks, so I would appreciate it if it's possible staff could address that
for a minute.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Mr Carter?
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. With the FF1, you'll notice that the FF1 was also on the list for running time analysis
to that end. What we were trying to do is address its on time performance. And I'm hoping everyone can
hear me. Can I get a thumbs up or a thumbs down? OK. OK, so kind of, still.
OK, so with that, we try to stay away from changing what's called voted work. So if there is a need to change
something, there is a special circumstance. And it has to be something fairly extreme to where we would
make the decision to contact the operator to get permission to make a change to work. At this point in time,
I do not believe that actually happened on the FF1 this go around.
I will say, however, there are a lot of things that have occurred that have caused some delay on a number
of routes. So I think this is a situation in which the FF is suffering from some on-time performance issues,
that we hope to cure with the May service change.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha, does that answer your question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think so. It was FF2. And it was a two-minute change. We can follow up offline and
maybe see what can be done. I mean, this is a person trying to use transit, modal shift to getting to work.
And as you know, we don't have the frequency we would like on those lines. And so missing that connection
from the A line to the FF2 really puts a pickle in someone's day. So thank you so much for answering my
question. And I look forward to the follow up.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'll go in the order of the hands I saw here. Director Lewis
next, please.
SPEAKER 2: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a few questions-- considering the amendment, is any safety issue
being compromised by restoring the hours? I'm talking about the train lines from 10:00 to 2:00 AM.
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Mr. Jensen, please?

DAVE JENSEN: I think I can answer that. And the answer to that is no. So what we won't do is we're not
reducing our inspection schedules. We are inspecting the track or inspecting the wire. We've got a really
good handle on the condition of it and won't compromise safety in any way.
SPEAKER 2: Are we putting stress on staff by reinstating those hours?
DAVE JENSEN: No. Ultimately, what ends up happening is we talked a lot tonight about the highest
standard, the best industry standards, as opposed to minimum standards. And so what ends up happening
is work gets deferred. Maintenance of Way ends up doing lots of repairs. We can do inspections.
And then ultimately, when major work needs to be done, we'll end up requesting a shutdown and taking
care of the work that needs to be done overnight or over a weekend, when it could have been done over
the course of a week or two without disrupting any service at all. And so it's just a matter of really shifting
where that work takes place.
SPEAKER 2: Because I'm just curious why we went through this exercise at all if those options were
available in the beginning.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I will own this. As we talked earlier, I said we're going to do a better job. And that's
why you see the modality lead sitting at the table. Because oftentimes, Mr. Carter is doing work, and he's
doing a very good job at that. But we need to bring in all the pieces to the puzzle So. We understand what
the right hand is doing and the left hand is doing.
So while we were trying to give adequate work time-- and I referenced this. And I'll just repeat it really
quickly. Because I stated this during the Executive session. When we talk about we need a maintenance
window, service planning staff was affording that to our modality partners. But in doing so, broader
conversations needed to ensue because we talk about how we have to mobilize units to get out the track
to de-energize power and things of the. And Mr. Jensen's team, after we went back and talked about it,
realized that we could do it in the manner in which he just specified over a course of a couple of days by
having that maintenance window, as opposed to having that window in more forward-facing fashion with
the impact to the customer base.
SPEAKER 2: May I, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
SPEAKER 2: Like what Director Ruscha, it's not a Gotcha question. It's I hope we learn from it so we don't
run into this again. Because it sounded, with a little adjustment, that we could have avoided a lot of
heartache that people had to go through the last week, thinking that their train was going to be taken away.
So I commend you. And let's make sure we learn from this. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. We'll go next to Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. And I just want-- because I know
the hour is late. It's even later where I am. I just want to state for the record, so that we have a clear picture
for the benefit of those who might be watching or who might be in the room, that the effect of the amendment

is to adjust the service hours from the original proposal on the D, the E, and the H lines, to run from 5:00
AM until midnight on school nights, Sunday through Thursday, and from 5:00 AM until 2:00 AM on the
weekends, Friday through Saturday.
I think with all the discussion, we may have lost the clarity of just that's what we are doing by virtue of this
amendment. That is my question. I'd just like a simple Yes or No. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, Director Tisdale, Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, ma'am.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINER: Thank you. Thanks so much for the responsiveness on this. I think that this was a great
amendment. It does start things later in the morning. And a number of groups and people submitted
questions about bus alternatives.
I know we have workforce issues there. But they mentioned specifically 10th and Osage to Auraria, where
we have students going. Are we able to put in place bus alternatives? Have we had a chance to look at
that? I know this has happened pretty quickly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Carter?
JESSIE CARTER: OK, if I may, there are two different ways of looking at this, and the first being with the
Downtown Denver rail replacement project. We want to look at that as being temporary. So we do, at some
point in time, likely September, we would welcome back the D and H lines into the downtown area. And
therefore, the customers won't need to look for an alternative.
However, in the place of that, there are other services, such as the Platte Valley FlexRide, that we're looking
at, trying to see if there is a way of placing it somewhere near 10th and Osage, to allow for a connection to
Auraria Station. I would also add that we should keep in mind that Auraria is also served at Auraria West
by the detoured lines. The D and the H will go by Auraria West, so they do have access, though it may not
be the same access as they have now. But even during the project, during the detours, they will still have
access to Auraria Station. So I'm hoping that answers your question.
LYNN GUISSINER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Carter. And thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Secretary
Guzman, please?
SPEAKER 3: Very quickly, can I please have your commitment that if you decide to shut down the trains
for any substantial amount of time, that we know, to get the work done-- as you said, safety concern would
require this-- to interrupt that service, that Mr. Summer's team in Communications will, effectively, make
sure that that is announced as quickly and efficiently as possible to all of our riders, should the need arise?
Because you have a project you have to work on where you might have to take something out of service
for a longer amount of time.
Anticipating that you're going to have work that needs to be done as this goes on, if your inspectors find
something while we do this-- because the original intent-- the reason I bring this up is there was a comment
made from my district that said you could potentially shut down for several days a weekend, whatever. So

people can anticipate needing to make arrangements to get to work in another mode, an automobile,
borrower ride, beg a ride, something. But we need to communicate that out well in advance so that that
planning can be done. That's all I'm asking for. And then you will have my commitment that I can move
forward with this.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sorry, I didn't mean to jump the gun there. But yes, Secretary Guzman, as I stated
before, you have my commitment relative to what we're doing here. And as I said during the Executive
Committee, if, in fact, anything's of a safety nature outside of having something that needs to be shut down
immediately, we will be communicating that out in advance. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And I wasn't going to do this because of time. But I do feel like I owe
my constituents this. I received many letters to this effect. And I am very appreciative that we did make
some changes relative to the service ban in the evening on the light rail.
But I also received many emails from those particularly in the service industry, who are very distressed
because of the changes that we made across the system. And now they're not going to be able to get to
work on time. And so I'm going to be a No today. And I understand that this was very challenging.
And I am just asking, if not begging, that the next time we do this, that we try something different. To Director
Guzman's point, maybe there are just certain times in which we have to shut down for repairs. But I do
represent a district that is very highly transit dependent and has a lot of working class folks. And I had folks
in near tears over this.
So I recognize we do have to make tough decisions. And this will be the first time I vote against a service
change. I'm a No vote tonight. And Mr. Carter, I still think that you are the salt of the earth. Don't tell Mr.
Summers you're my favorite RTD employee. And I also, again, want to acknowledge Ms. Johnson's
commitment, just moving forward, to see what we can do to mitigate some of these challenges. But thank
you very much for letting me speak up one more time, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Treasurer Bouquet, please.
SPEAKER 15: W Line impact, are there adjustments to it? Yes?
SPEAKER: Yes.
SPEAKER 15: Thank you. To midnight?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes, it gets moved to midnight, but it also starts up at the 4:30 AM.
SPEAKER 15: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the clarity. I am now going to move to the vote. We are on the Amendment,
with Director Sloan as the movement and Secretary Guzman as the second. So this is the staff Amendment

before we move back to the main motion. Are there any No votes on the Amendment? Seeing none, the
Amendment will pass with 15 Aye votes, zero No and 0 abstention.
We'll now move back to the main motion for the May 2024 service change. Are there any No votes on this
action? Please your raise hand, virtual. Or otherwise, I do see Director Ruscha. I am seeing one No vote,
14 Aye votes, and 0 abstentions. The motion will pass. I would like to thank Mr. Jensen, Mr. Carter, and
Mr. Worthen. General Manager and CEO Johnson, thank you for the patience here this evening. Thank
you for working together as one to bring together an alternative proposal here.
With that, we will move on to our original item B recommended action. This is for the Senate Bill 24-184. It
is for the Board of Directors to adopt an Amend position on Senate Bill 24-184 or SB 184, support surface
transportation infrastructure development. Do we have a motion?
SPEAKER 12: So moved, Dishell.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Do I have a second?
LYNN GUISSINER: Second, Guissinger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear the movement as Dishell and the second as Guissinger. At this time, I would like
Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, to please share any information that you have for
the Board this evening regarding this item.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, and members of the Board. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer, before you tonight with a recommended action to amend Senate Bill 184, Support Surface
Transportation Infrastructure Development. During the discussion, the recommendation is based on the
discussion with the Board during the Executive Committee.
The original bill in description-- and this was from my summary that I provided during the Executive
Committee. The original bill in Section 3 really directs and mandates a change to RTD's statutory reference
and statutory section and directs RTD to lead a study to do an implementation plan for construction and
operation of not only just the Northwest Rail corridor, but north of Longmont for the segment from Longmont
to Fort Collins.
I think the comments that staff received during the Executive Committee meeting expressed concern
around spending RTD taxpayer dollars on segments of a study plan outside of the district. And that is really
what is driving staff's recommendation, and staff shares that concern. And that is what's driving the staff's
recommendation to amend.
There was a proposed draft amendment that was circulated to the Board earlier and circulated to staff, that
we received earlier, that we anticipate will be offered tomorrow during the committee meeting for this bill.
The proposed amendment does make some substantial changes to the original drafted bill. As described,
the section 3, that I just mentioned that originally changed RTD's statute, according to the draft amendment
that will be proposed tomorrow, eliminates the majority of RTD's statute to be changed.
So specifically, with regards to if you're following along in the current draft of the bill, it's Section 34(a) is
how it's listed, subsection 4(a) And below subsection 4(a), that is, essentially, struck from the bill. And then
a new section would be provided in there, which, essentially, puts Front Range Passenger Rail in the
position of where they have RTD statute change currently. So it really is swapping RTD with Front Range

Passenger Rail with respect to directing and changing Front Range Passenger Rail statute, to look at driving
the study and moving forward.
Further, there is language also in the amendment to look at a subsection in there. And it says, essentially,
look at using the current studies that are available to the extent possible, to be able to move forward and
inform that implementation plan in the study and the timelines that the bill is requiring. In that, it does not
list RTD's studies. It lists studies that are currently ongoing from CDOT and from Front Range Passenger
Rail.
So I think the intent there is-- and having spoke to bill drafters, but as I read it, the intent there is to change
Front Range Passenger Rail's statute, put forward a direction to say Front Range Passenger Rail, lead this
study. RTD and CDOT are certainly listed in there and required to be a part of that contemplation and use
front Range Passenger Rail's current studies as a potential to move forward with the directed studies in
that bill.
So that's just my brief worded summary. I think it's important to say that nothing in this bill takes away the
authority from the RTD Board to approve funding for any potential study that may come about as a result
of this bill. And it's also important to say that RTD is absolutely a part of the study. We are listed in that
potential study and that RTD would be expected to participate in participation with Front Range Passenger
Rail and CDOT, should this bill move forward. And with that, for the sake of time, happy to answer any
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. I appreciate it. And thank you for your patience in the waiting to
this point here. We'll go to questions from Directors to inform the position at hand. Of to amend, I will just
state, we did discuss this at Executive Committee. I thank everybody for the participation there. The
discussion largely centered around what the financial obligations might be to RTD as it relates to this bill.
The conversation varied between potentially opposing unless amended, to supporting if amended, to just
simply an amend position to take first things first and look at really how this aligns with RTD's mission and
the interests of the taxpayers, for which we spend our funds. So we did have a discussion around that,
which is what this is coming out of.
I'll also add, I know, Mr. Davies, you touched on this briefly. We do expect this to go to the Transportation
Committee tomorrow. It will next then go to Finance. And then it will go to Appropriations.
It is my understanding at this time that a number of regional stakeholders throughout the region are taking
variations on amend positions, many of them aligned with the concerns with respect of the RTD being given
the mission by Section 3 to complete the study that ultimately, would focus outside of our district, rather
than Front Range Passenger Rail. So with that being said about the discussion at Executive Committee, I'll
move to questions now from Directors, starting with Secretary Guzman.
Michael Guzman: Particularly with the information that was provided today that you referenced, lines 7
through 11, Section 3, subsection 3, that we may extend construction and operations of the Northwest Rail
fixed guideway corridor beyond the boundaries of RTD-- so again, it's cute that it's allowing that. But I don't
believe for one second that we should be providing any services outside of the district. We need to take
care of things within the district. And it would be faulty to allow that to continue to go forward.
So I would still say, given what we have accomplished thus far, which is great work, we still need to fix that
piece. And I don't know that I want to take in Amend position on this. I would almost suggest that until all of

that is removed, and it's very clear we have a boundary, that we take an Oppose. And I am going to be the
stick in the mud on this one, y'all. But I think we need to think about it in terms of that.
Suggesting that we amend may look like we're just kicking up dust and making a fuss over some language
in a bill. But opposing something does send a different message. And I have heard many different sides.
And I'm OK to be out here on my own. But I want to make that clear that's where I stand on this.
So if the motion remains to just amend, I'm not inclined to vote that way. And it's not because I don't support
making the changes. It's because I want to see the change before I can get to neutral. And it is not my job
to seek the change. It is the drafters' job to get me there. I want to be clear on that.
So what we heard at our Executive meeting was that we would not support this bill as it was drafted. We
would want to see amendments. And we're getting closer. But I think the drafters still have more work to
do. And we know that we're going to see other amendments coming forward. So I'm hesitant to even move
towards neutral until we see the draft of the bill that we are appreciative of. And that is their job.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Director Guzman, thank you for that. I understand your concern. And I just want to
make sure that it is just permissive language in there, does not require RTD to operate that service, does
not mandate RTD to operate that service. It is simply to say, if by chance a viable plan were to ever come
together, RTD does have the ability to do that. That's what that language in that section is saying. But I
understand your concern, and I look forward to the conversation.
SPEAKER 3: But to my fellow Directors, if I may? I'm sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
SPEAKER 3: I would just remind you we already have the ability to do that in our enacting legislation. So
again, we don't need to be told to do this. It seems superfluous to me to even be discussing letting that go
without addressing it. And to seek an amendment directly to this bill to remove that language is important.
I do have another question. You said we are still committed for cost purposes in doing studies, right? Being
part of a study may imply that we have a cost that we have to deal with.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: That is not a definitive. I think the implication of the original current bill language, when
you're changing RTD's statute and saying, RTD, you are charged with driving this study in cooperation with
this others, the implication is much more likely that it's on us to go ahead and say we would need to move
forward with a potential study to construct and operate this segment. With changes, I think there is always
that potential. But it does not require RTD to move forward with any funding for any of the studies
necessarily in here.
Now, if-- again, a hypothetical-- if Front Range Passenger Rail were to say, well, we're putting together and
moving forward with this study, and we don't have enough funding. RTD, would you contribute? Again, that
would be a decision for the Board to make, if that hypothetical scenario were to play out. But nothing in the

bill or the amendment mandates or takes away the authority from the Board to make that financial decision
for RTD.
SPEAKER 3: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Thank you, Mr. Davies. Director Buzek, please.
SPEAKER 9: Thanks, Mr. Chair. Just an observation-- and maybe I'm wrong. But it used to be the sausage
making, a lot of it happened behind closed doors and not just throw it out there, and let's talk about it. We
seem to be getting more and more things that come our way that are just like the bad first draft of something
that hasn't been refined, and like, wow. And before we even talk about it, there have been 19 changes
already. So at least, it's just an observation on my part.
So I share some of Director Guzman's concerns. But the problem for me in taking an opposed position is
that it locks us out to being involved in participating in the fixes that might come about. If we come out and
say, we're opposed; OK, RTD is opposed; see you guys later; we're going to go do our own thing-- we need
to be involved in making the recommendations of improvements.
And it is a lot of the heavy lifting should be on the bill drafters' shoulders. But to the extent it impacts us,
that's, I think, our job to recommend those things to them, say, listen how would you consider this? And not
just say, we're opposed. Go fix it. And they might not fix it in any way we think is useful. So I will be
supporting the Amend position begrudgingly. But I think there's a lot of things that need to be amended.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINER: Thank you. And Thank you, Mr. Davies. I know you've been working hard on this. The
changes here, rather than putting it on Front Range Passenger Rail, they really put it on all four entities,
that the reports need to come from the district, the Department of Transportation, the High Performance
Transportation Enterprise, and RTD, just to be clear.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, it doesn't change RTD's statute. As currently drafted, it changes Front Range
Passenger Rail statute. But yes, the language does say we're changing Front Range Passenger Rail's
statute language. And as a part of that RTD Front Range Passenger Rail and CDOT CTIO are charged
with producing the reports listed in the bill.
LYNN GUISSINER: And I think that this is the critical piece that Front Range Passenger Rail, I think-- and
we would prefer to see Front Range Passenger Rail. They were created for this purpose. But there are
other issues that I think we probably would want to look at in terms of some of the dates. And I still think
that there's some confusion, maybe not so much now that RTD won't be listed as the lead.
But whether we're being asked to build Front Northwest Rail, which wouldn't qualify for federal funding, or
Intercity Passenger Rail-- so I guess I'm agreeing with Director Buzek, that pretty quick here, we should do
some red-lining or if there is something to suggest the amendments we specifically want. Does that make
sense?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINER: And I guess tomorrow, if somebody testifies, are we just asking for a change to this
one provision? I'm not quite sure what this means, the Amend position, if we're just supporting what they're
doing.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies, please.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you. So again, based on the discussion at Executive Committee, my
understanding is, at least from an Amend position, we'd certainly want to make sure that RTD is not
expected to be spending RTD money on a potential study on a project outside of the district. And so I think
that is certainly a point that would want to be made in terms of amending the bill.
Beyond that, I think that's what I look to for direction from the Board tonight, to see if there's other potential
pieces of this that are a part of that overall Amend discussion. But as of now, the only amendment that I've
actually seen that I think will be entertained tomorrow does what I described, is that it doesn't necessarily
change our statute, in that it changes Front Range Passenger Rail. But obviously, we are still expected to
participate in that process of producing these reports.
LYNN GUISSINER: And it strikes most of the RTD statute language except for the part about us being able
to work outside the district, right?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Correct, the permissive language to say, if a project were to come together, and if RTD
agreed to be a part of that project, that we would have the ability to operate outside of the district.
LYNN GUISSINER: OK. I'm not sure we do have that now. So I think, yeah, you're right. That's being added.
I guess my reaction to what it is now is that we shouldn't be the lead on building Intercity Passenger Rail, if
that's what they're wanting even in our district, that that's what Front Range Passenger Rail was built for.
But again, it's very ambiguous to me what's in here, what we're being [INAUDIBLE]. But it sounds like it's
being changed, so thanks. I'll support this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I'll just note, since, Mr. Davies, you touched upon
seeking direction here. So as we go through the discussion, I will do my best here to summarize some of
the common themes that I hear that can inform the Amend position and any testimony at committee. I think
it is very clear, given the timeline and the number of stakeholders, There. Will be a number of changes to
this.
I would expect that the Board will need to revisit as this is amended and revisit the position as it happens.
So, Mr. Davies, I will do my best to summarize some of the themes that I hear here. With that, I'll go next
to Director Dishell.
SPEAKER 12: Thank you. A couple of quick notes, one just for the benefit of everyone, just raising what I
raised in Executive Committee, which is seeking an Amendment, wherever it may be, that these obligations
do not require us to sacrifice service and that that's still within RTD's jurisdiction. I also, in reviewing the
amended language, the title of the legislation rubs me the wrong just because as amended, it would read,
"regional fixed guideway mass transit systems construction Front Range Passenger Rail authorization,
completion of Northwest Rail fixed guideway corridor, limited operations outside district report."
Now, to a reasonable, plain person, that would mean that RTD by statute is being stated to have regional
fixed guideway mass transit system's construction of Front Range Passenger Rail. Now, I know that the
text that follows isn't what says that. But court of public opinion is important here.

I separately want to flag that to my knowledge, we do not have in statute any other portion of the FasTracks
system. And I have concerns around putting into statute the completion of certain components of FasTracks
without the others, including, and to me most importantly, bus rapid transit. Consistent with the drafters'
intent of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we have the ability, caveated. One day, we may have the
ability to fully electrify buses, more likely than we can fully electrify diesel rail, which was just presented to
us.
And so I have concerns about codifying that, especially as we're quite literally discussing the feasibility of
Northwest Rail to then have a statute that says, you're going to build Northwest Rail, effectively, isn't great.
It sort of backs us into a corner. So I'm supportive of Amend for bringing forward the thrust of the
amendments. I just would encourage us to be a bit broader.
And if we want to talk about the rest of the FasTracks improvements, that's great. But I think I just want us
to be careful and mindful of the way that this reads after you do Amend, and you're reading it on two different
screens. That as a statute really rubs me the wrong way, especially even putting Front Range Passenger
Rail ahead of Northwest, assuming both of them go through. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. And just for clarity's sake, when you're referring to statute,
you're referring to the changes to the RTD statute?
SPEAKER 12: Yeah, so 32-9-107, which I believe is ours. The title of that statute as amended-- so looking
at Senate Bill 24184, line 4-- excuse me, line 2 to 3 of the Amendment, unless I'm reading it wrong, means
that that law 32-9107.7 will be Regional Fixed Guideway Mass Transit Systems construction, Front Range
Passenger Rail authorization, completion of Northwest Rail fixed guideway corridor, limited operations
outside district report.
MICHAEL DAVIES: I'm tracking with what you're saying.
SPEAKER 12: And that's problematic to me.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell for sharing that. And thank you for the additional clarity. Mr.
Davies, sir, did you want to make any comments on that or just-- thank you. Director Harwick, please.
SPEAKER 11: Thank you. I mean, I'm really with Director Buzek here. This just feels like we're watching
the sausage get made. And while we're being asked to potentially taking Amend position on it, it just feels
like we might do that. And tomorrow, we're going to see a change. And then maybe in three days, we're
going to see another change, and we're going to see another change, and another change.
And to me, I feel like we're saying, yeah, I guess we're just cautiously optimistic that at the end, this isn't
going to be a mess. And that just feels-- I don't know. It just feels a little bit awkward to me. And maybe
that's just the best thing that we have going for us here. But it just feels like just being put in a weird position.
And I don't really have anything to ask. It just feels like getting backed into a weird corner. And I'm not a
huge fan of it. So that's what I got.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Harwick, fast happening. It brought fast, I think, certainly. Director
Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I do have a couple questions maybe of counsel. But I wanted to make a
comment. And then if there are others, they can go ahead of me before I ask my questions. So taking an
opposed position does not mean you're locked out of the room. It does not mean that you are not in

dialogue. it means that as the bill is right now, there's so many things that need to be addressed, that we
can't just merely take an Amend.
Because an Amend is suggesting a small amendment. And I don't know how long we've been talking about
this right now. But it's 10:40, and I'm not entirely sure that anybody in this room knows what exactly it is
we're going to amend. We might have some concepts.
We also have a policy, whether it's written down or not, that we don't take positions on bills without
language, right? So we have some language. And then some new language dropped on us a few hours
ago and then a concept of an amendment. And if that amendment was simple and direct, I think I would be
OK.
But as many folks have said, there's a discomfort in not quite knowing what this bill is going to look like
tomorrow or even fully the intent of sponsors outside of what they have said out loud. And I think that given
there are still some changes to the RTD Act in this bill, even with the amendment-- and that is big P Policy,
as Director Dishell pointed out, I think we are doing our constituents, and we are doing our staff a much
better service in saying, right now, we oppose because XYZ, these things aren't clear. We have some flags.
However, we look forward to working with you and as we have been in collaboration and getting through
these pieces. Because I'm not personally comfortable with, well, it kind of sounds like it might work and
crossing my fingers, particularly when it comes to whether it's a mandate or a stated expectation of this
district. And so I do agree with Director Guzman And for whatever it's worth, Front Range Passenger Rail- and this is not a knock to them. They need us more than we need them right now.
And if we have worked in partnership the way that we stated we have, and they have stated that we have,
then I think that between the powers that be, as well as CDOT, that we can continue to work on this bill to
a point where collectively, this body can look at it, and we know what we're looking at, and we know what
to expect. And then we can move to neutral or support.
But it's a big bill. It's a little messy right now. It needs some work. And so I'm in the position of that we need
to oppose for now because they haven't given us to work with to just say a simple amendment. I also have
a couple questions, but I would like to yield to any fellow Directors before I ask questions. And the questions
will be of counsel.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'll come back around for the questions. I'll go to First Vice
Chair Catlin.
SPEAKER 16: Thank you. If we take a position to amend, but those amendments as they're being
negotiated and discussed are not favorable, then we can always oppose, correct?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, that's correct.
SPEAKER 16: OK. I mean, I'm not comfortable with the bill as it's written either. It's ambiguous. I think we
need some more direct language or explicit language moving forward. But at this point, I'm willing to let you
all take a strong position as the bill is amended to address some of these ambiguities as long as we do
have the option of saying never mind and walking away.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Director Dishell, please.

SPEAKER 12: Yeah, just one more comment focusing on language and amendment. If the thrust of this bill
is an IGA or a third or fourth, depending on how you count entity to oversee this, is there a reason that the
language is phrased that RTD would be reimbursed, as opposed to that being-- it's one thing to say you
can build outside your jurisdiction. It's another to say that you should be reimbursed, which implies that
RTD is coming out of pocket first. RTD is first funds.
But if the whole point is an IGA or a fourth entity that everyone's contributing to, then hire RTD to do the
work, I just wanted to flag that as, Do we know of any logic in that beyond RTD being first funds?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell, Mr. Davies, if you'd like?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, thank you, Director Dishell, A great question. And I think it's all built into the
concept of looking at this, what they describe in the bill, as a first phase of Front Range Passenger Rail,
which is really Denver to Fort Collins, knowing that RTD is currently studying, as you all just heard and got
the update on, the Northwest Rail Peak Service possibility, but building on top of the peak service possibility,
what could be for that first phase.
And so that's why it's in there, is to, essentially, provide that option to say, if RTD were the operator, and
there was money to be identified outside of the district, knowing that RTD wouldn't be able to use our
taxpayer dollars dedicated to, say, FasTracks on a new segment outside of the district, that if RTD was
reimbursed for those funds, it would have the ability to go ahead and operate that service if fully reimbursed.
SPEAKER 12: So it's more on the O&M side than it is on the capital initial investment side sort of?
MICHAEL DAVIES: It could be both.
SPEAKER 12: It could be both. OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell, Thank you, Mr. Davies, for touching upon that. Secretary
Guzman, please.
SPEAKER 3: So thank you for the response. But I think that's an awfully hopeful interpretation of what the
drafters are intending here. And if I've learned-JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. I'm unable to hear Secretary Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Is it the mic? Could you get closer to the mic, Secretary?
SPEAKER 3: Thank you for the interpretation that you've provided. But I think it's awfully hopeful of the bill
drafters at this stage. If I've learned anything over the last year from my fellow Directors, it's that we are a
transit agency. We are not a bank.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. I will go back to the questions, Director Ruscha, you had.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And I think this is for General Counsel Snyder. Are we allowed to spend
Fastracks dollars on FasTracks projects? I think the answer is no. And I understand the bill does not force
us to. I think that might be the hopeful result of the sponsors, based on what they have said publicly.

But could you address that, I guess what the parameters are around FasTracks dollars? If something looks
like FasTracks, like, say, FRPR, but isn't FasTracks, would that be a permitted use of our dollars? Or is that
something that we might not know unless we find ourselves in litigation?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question. Melanie Snider, General Counsel.
So the answer to the question-- I think Mr. Davies touched on this-- is that no, RTD cannot use voterapproved funds for a purpose that was not authorized by the voters. And so if we're talking about operating
outside of the district, that would certainly be something that's out of bounds for using FasTracks funds for.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And then this could be for General Counsel or for Mr. Davies. But there is
still some language in the bill, even before the draft, that does amend the RTD Act. And it's not just the
piece that we could run service to Fort Collins under FRPR. And just because we don't have a re-engrossed
version-- I think this was mentioned by Director Dishell. But could you quickly just recap what will still be
changed in the RTD Act, even with this Amendment in front of us?
I'm just assuming your notes are a little bit better than mine. And I don't have the re-engrossed version.
And I think it would be helpful for us to get that clarity.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies, please.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, thank you, Director Ruscha. And I think you're referring to the sections that
explicitly authorize RTD to enter into IGA or another legal entity, as it's described in the bill. And from my
understanding, RTD already has that legal authority. So in many ways, it's a messaging statutory language.
But it does add that explicitly into the RTD Act or statute, that it is explicitly authorizing RTD to be able to
enter into an IGA or separate legal entity.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. And I apologize. I should have been more clear. So does it still have the
language that says that, essentially, it's a policy position, that, essentially-- that talks about the Northwest
Passage-- or Northwest Rail and our obligation to build it and building trust? Is that language, all of that
language, still going to be in this bill?
[? ERIK DAVIDSON: ?] Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, thank you, Director Ruscha. If you're referring to the legislative declaration at the
beginning of the bill, that doesn't change RTD's statute. But yes, all of that language is in this bill.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry, sir. If I may, legislative declarations do make it into statute, even if they are
legislative declarations. And I just wanted to make sure that if this bill passes as is, that will be the
permanent record. And so that's why I asked. I have-- I don't know if it's a direct question. There are multiple- we just don't have enough time. We just don't have enough time to get through a 38-page bill at 11 o'clock.
But there are multiple references in this bill or inferences as to who is in charge, whether it's building,
operating, leading in planning. And I worry-- sometimes it says FRPR. Sometimes it says CTIO. Sometimes
it says RTD. Sometimes it says CTIO where it probably should say FRPR.

And again, I worry that our proposed amendment doesn't go far enough. Because even if we took care of
that one aspect in terms of who's going to pay for the service development plan, I worry that we will be
forced into an agreement and all, but an agreement in all but name. And then those rules won't be clear.
So I just wanted to just to address that, that the bill just has a lot of ambiguity. And I would suspect that our
partners at FRPR probably have similar concerns, and they might bring their own amendments tomorrow.
But to me, I just, again, I'm going to say I feel like this is not cooked enough for us to make a decision
tonight on amend.
There are just too many things that we don't know. I might be outvoted on it, but if anybody did want to
entertain a motion to amend to a position of oppose, I would support that. But again, I just strongly urge my
colleagues, given how important this is and the public perception that's going to come from this bill, that we
think very, very seriously in leaving this to chance tomorrow. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Broom, please.
SPEAKER 17: Call the question.
SPEAKER 1: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear. OK. So I hear the call of the question from Director Broom. Second was Director
Rosenthal. We'll go ahead and call for the vote. I'll do this by roll. Director Bouquet?
SPEAKER 15: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
SPEAKER 17: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
SPEAKER: I'm sorry. We have a motion to call the question, isn't it?
[? DEBRA JOHNSON: ?] To call the question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh.
SPEAKER: So Director Broom, if you called the question, you're going to want to vote Yes on this because
you're voting right now to end the debate.
SPEAKER 17: I'll change mine. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
OK.
SPEAKER: Fair enough.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Bear with me as we go here. Director Buzek?
SPEAKER 9: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
SPEAKER 16: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
SPEAKER 12: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No. I'd like to pull this together a little more so Mr. Davies and others have some
recommendations.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Guzman?
SPEAKER 3: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
SPEAKER 11: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
SPEAKER: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
SPEAKER 14: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I am in No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7-- that is eight Yes, seven No. We will call it will pass.

SPEAKER: Yeah, I mean, it's a little late, so Melanie can concur. But I believe you need 2/3 to call the
question.

SPEAKER: That did not get answered?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Going to ask General Counsel. Do we need 2/3 to call the question?
SPEAKER: All right, I think pretty sure.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I do not recall there being a 2/3 requirement to call the question. I think it's a majority
vote. But of course, I defer to General Counsel or someone who actually happens to have a copy of Robert's
in their hands.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale, we're taking a look. That was my understanding as well. But I'll pause
and ask General Counsel.
SPEAKER: Yeah, it's 2/3. [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Kroll has confirmed. Director Tisdale and Director Ruscha, who are online, that it is
2/3. All right, so we will return to the questions and discussion. Let's try to keep it tight and summarize
where we are, so that it is pulled together here for staff. I will next go to Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I agree. Let's wind this up. But I do think pulling it together a little bit-- and
so I'm going to take a quick stab at it. I agree with Director Ruscha that there's a lot of questions here. I
don't agree that we need to come out with an Amend, but an opposed, but amend. I think we've got a
hearing tomorrow. And we've just gotten these changes, which really make a big difference to RTD.
We're no longer the lead agency. But it doesn't answer everything. So I guess my recommendation is that
to the committee tomorrow, we say we are amending and that we will come back soon, as Director [? Buzek
?] suggested, with more specifics in terms of what we would like to see.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
SPEAKER 14: If you're not at the table sometimes, you're on the table. And I think we need to be in the [?
Amend ?] position. We're going to see a litany of amendments, as Director Ruscha mentioned. And this bill
could morph five or six more times in the original house. I just think that going in with the opposition
movement with so much more work to do on the bill locks into a corner and to our detriment to future
legislation that we all know is coming. So I urge a vote to go into the hearing tomorrow in an Amend position.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Ruscha, I see your hand. I haven't commented
yet, and I'd like to make a few comments just to summarize where we are. So we're discussing where we
disagree around this right now. But there's some things that are very, very clear from an RTD perspective.
And we are here to represent RTD and RTD's taxpayers and its customers. That's the task at hand.

Some things that are clear. We cannot operate or spend taxpayer dollars that have been collected by RTD
taxpayers outside of the district. Additionally, taxes that have been raised on the 0.4% for FasTracks are to
the benefit of FasTracks projects, as per the ballot language in 2004. We cannot pursue, therefore, and
fund and develop or study intercity Passenger Rail, since that does not align with the plan that we had.
Let's just take Northwest Rail here. We looked at, I believe it's packet page 55, showing the economies in
the collaboration between Front Range Passenger Rail and RTD, that there may be possibilities we can
collaborate. But we're dealing with 10 stations. There are far fewer for Front Range Passenger Rail.
I think that there are some general things that we agree on there. Director Dishell's comments seem to
have a lot of head nodding. I don't want to speak for everybody around, ensuring that whatever we support
does not pull away from the service of our riders and our taxpayers. It certainly is my opinion that based on
everything I've heard-- and I agree that this bill feels early, and there's a lot that's likely to change.
There will be a litany of amendments. And regardless of the position we take, we will need to revisit this
because it will be amended. I would like to just express my support for the idea that we just take the Amend
position, that we convey some of these tenets, unless anybody speaks up and disagreement of some of
those tenets that I stated, when we are at committee tomorrow, around where our concerns lie, and then
take the Amend position.
I believe we will need, and I am committed to working with staff, our Board Office, and this Board. I believe
we will need a special Board meeting in order to revisit and review, once this bill is amended, and we have
had more time to look through all of it. So thank you for allowing me to capture where we are. Please raise
your hand if there's anything I've mischaracterized that any of you have shared before we end up taking
the vote for an Amend position. But at this point, I will go ahead and call on Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And please tell me if I'm out of order. It is late, and even I'm forgetting
Robert's Rules. But just so I understand, we only have one amendment we are asking for. Is that what we
are voting on? And would it be permissible for any Director to offer an additional Amendment? I think I need
a point of clarification or maybe the parliamentarian because I would like to offer one for us to consider.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Mr. Davies, I'd like to turn to you on that question to
comment on both the strategy and your response to that question, but also, a chance to respond to the
direction that you are seeking for the position of the agency.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, certainly. Thank you, Chair. With regards to the concerns I've heard, I've heard
the concern that Director Ruscha raised with the legislative declarations and addressing that in some
manner. I've heard the concerns that Director Dishell raised with sacrificing service, as well as reference to
the rest of the FasTracks and BRT projects as well. And outside of that, I think that's what I take as the
general summary of additional items that may seek further amendment beyond what we've talked about of
ensuring that RTD tax dollars are not being spent on a study outside of the district.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies for summarizing that. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I think that is fairly accurate. So I would like to offer that yes, that we
ask that the piece in the legislative declaration, which is a very strong policy piece, that will go into the RTD
Act and stay there, that is removed. And I will just leave this to the Chair and Mr. Davies or unless someone
else wants to opine strongly. I also think it would benefit us if it is just emphasized that ultimately, it is the
Board that makes these financial decisions.

While that is true there are other things in the bill that didn't need to be said that were said, right? And so I
think that is important. And I would also finally offer, if we are going to move forward with an Amend or
multiple Amends, I would strongly encourage, if this is permissible, to direct Mr. Davies, along with our staff,
to also ask that this bill, even after committee, is laid over. Because it's clear, I think, from multiple
stakeholders that it does need a little bit of work.
And so maybe that is touching on some of our pain points without coming off too rough. But I would like to
suggest that we, in addition, we ask that it's laid over, so that there is not a vote tomorrow, so we can have
some more time to work on these issues. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Pause for any comments, questions from Directors. OK,
seeing no further questions from Directors or hands raised at this time, I will go ahead and call for the vote.
I will take a roll on this. I think, also, I'd just like to briefly pause before taking the roll here. Mr. Davies, do
you feel confident that you have what you need for the next step in terms of strategy and the Amend
position?
MICHAEL DAVIES: I do.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. I will call for the vote. Director Bouquet.
SPEAKER 15: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
SPEAKER 17: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek
SPEAKER 9: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
SPEAKER 16: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Duschel.
SPEAKER 12: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman.
SPEAKER 3: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
SPEAKER 11: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
SPEAKER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
SPEAKER 14: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am Yes. That is 15 Yes, with 0 No, and 0 absent. The motion will pass. All right, I
will entertain a motion. There are some critical items here. I will say that we'll table the discussion item this
evening to the next Board meeting for sure. But we do need to finish some pressing time, time pressing
items on recommended action. So I will entertain a motion to finish out the business on the agenda on the
recommended actions.
SPEAKER: I move to extend the meeting to complete only those items listed in agenda item 18, which
would mean, we would not do discussion items, report of Director activities, or other matters.
SPEAKER: I second that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Any no votes? All right, excellent. We will continue and complete those. So next, we
move to the Downtown Rail Intersection Reconstruction Contract Award. This is for the Board of Directors
to authorize the General Manager-- and oh, I'm sorry. Was there a comment on the-JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. I am so sorry, sir, and I might just be very tired. I forgot. Have we appointed
Director Lewis to his committee yet?
ERIK DAVIDSON: That will be in the recommended action. We will complete that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, so we will complete. We're not skipping that one. That's not being tabled. OK.
Thank you. I just I couldn't hear Director Dishell clearly. And I apologize for interrupting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Thank you. So we're on the recommended action C, Downtown Rail
Intersection Reconstruction Contract Award. This is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General
Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with [? Krish ?] Construction Incorporated for

the full depth reconstruction of five rail intersections in downtown Denver in an amount not to exceed
$4,320,384 USD. Do we have a motion?
SPEAKER: Buzek's approved.
[LAUGHTER]
I beat you that time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Buzek as the movement. I heard Broom as the second. General Manager and
CEO Johnson, do you have any additional information that you would like to share with the Board at this
time?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO,
following up on the discussion that we had at the Board meeting last month relative to an overview of the
near term rail reconstruction project, this is one of the first items relative to initiating the actual mobilization
and construction going forward. If this Board is so inclined to provide authorization to enter into a contract,
staff is readily available to answer any questions. But primarily, it's overseeing the five intersections that
are critically important as we look at the state of good repair for our downtown rail alignment. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO. Thank you for bringing this forward for Board
authorization and consideration. Is there any discussion on this motion? Seeing none, I will call for the vote.
Are there any No votes on this motion? Director Ruscha is a No. Can you just clarify?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, sir, yes, I'm a No vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Any other No votes? Seeing none, we'll have 14 Aye votes, 1 No vote, and
0-- I'm sorry. We have 13, one absent. Thank you for that-- 12 Aye votes, 1 No vote, and 1 absent. Thank
you very much for staying for this. Thank you for staying. Appreciate this. Appreciate the patience.
The next action F is for the project management support consultant contract award. This is for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to award a work order contract to
Triunity Incorporated for project management support consultant services. The contract is for three base
years, with two additional one-year options, exercisable at RTD's discretion.
The total not-to-exceed amount for the first three years is $20,500,000 USD. Do I hear a motion?
SPEAKER 15: So moved, Bouquet
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved, Ruscha.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Bouquet as the movement, and I have Ruscha as the second. General Manager
CEO Johnson, would you like to address this item?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
This item came before the Operations and Safety Committee and basically, was put forward on this
recommended action. As you heard from staff, this is for project management consulting services for a
broad range of services to supplement our capital program staff with routine activities in addition to aspects
of our near-term rail reconstruction program.

Staff is available. We had a robust discussion just last week or the week before. I'm losing my mind right
now. But there you have it, Mr Chair. I yield the floor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO. And again, thank you to staff for remaining here
this entire time with us. I'll go to questions from Directors concerning the recommended action. Director
Dishell, please.
SPEAKER 12: Yeah. Thank you. And this may just be a cross-industry question. But my understanding in
the construction space is that a work order is typically a thinner contract than a more robust. It's usually
issued under a master services agreement or a different type of contract, where you have a bit more
protections, a bit more robust contracting. Is there a reason that we're pursuing this under a work order?
Or is my understanding of a work order in this context incorrect?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So we are taking the work order approach because this is for a myriad of activities. So
we will issue like just what it says, a work order for specific work relative to an umbrella contract that we
have with Triunity to supplement staff.
SPEAKER 12: So we do have an umbrella contract with Triunity?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
SPEAKER 12: [INAUDIBLE]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
--question.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you.
SPEAKER 12:
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.
SPEAKER 16: Thank you, Kevin, maybe you can answer this. We had a similar overarching project
management or project oversight, whatever, for FasTracks, for the overall FasTracks program. And can
you tell me order of magnitude what that dollar amount was over the several years that's been the oversight
of all the FasTracks corridors?
SPEAKER 26: Talking about the Jacobs contract?
SPEAKER 16: Yes.
SPEAKER 26: That was close to 200 million over 18 years, I think.
SPEAKER 16: OK, thank you. I just wanted to put it in perspective. Because 20 million is quite a bit of
money, but I mean, the scope of work is obviously smaller. I just wanted to gauge it from that perspective.
So thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Any further questions? All right, seeing none, I will call for the vote. Are there
any No votes on this recommended action? Seeing none, this will pass with 15 Aye votes, 0 No votes, and
0 abstention. Thank you once again for the patience.
The next recommended action will be for the adoption of the Board operating guideline amendments. This
is for the Board to adopt the amendments to the Board's operating guidelines. Do I have a motion?
SPEAKER: So moved, Sloan.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, Sloan is the movement, Tisdale as the second. I will just comment that there
has been good discussion and Executive Committee around this. I thank all the Directors who have weighed
in on this. I thank Mr. Kroll for your work in making adjustments. Is there any discussion on the amendments
to the Board operating guidelines? Are there any No votes on this action? It will pass with 15 Ayes, 0 Nos,
and 0 abstentions.
Finally, and very importantly, the final recommended action will be for the appointment of Director Lewis to
the Operations and Safety Committee for the Board of Directors to ratify Director Lewis's appointment to
the Operations and Safety Committee. Do I hear a motion.
SPEAKER 3: So moved.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved. Oh, can I have it, please?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Guzman as the motion and Ruscha as the second. Is there any discussion on
this? Are there any No votes?
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER: Yeah. [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: That will be 15 Aye, 0 No, and 0 abstentions. As per our time limit and what was voted
on before, we will be tabling our discussion item and not doing our report of Director activities or other
matters. I will briefly just state that it is my intent. Obviously, we have had a concept on Board reform.
I alluded earlier to the need for a special Board meeting for us to further discuss any amendments on
Senate Bill 24184. I believe a special Board meeting will also be in order when a bill is introduced regarding
transit reform. So with that, the meeting will be adjourned at 11:15 PM. Thank you for joining us. Thank you
for everybody's patience. Have a good night.
SPEAKER: Thank you, Doug.
SPEAKER: Yeah. And I would just add that it's really fortunate that the W line does not close at 10:00.

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Ryan Holt <holtsrus312@gmail.com>
Sunday, March 24, 2024 5:27 PM
Board Office
Transit Operating Hours

Greetings,
My name is Ryan Holt and I’d like to express my concerns over the proposal to permanently reduce operating hours for
bus and light rail service.
While I appreciate the push to improve reliability and punctuality of bus and rail, I think cutting back service times is not
in the best interest of our community. This would mean any public event ending after 10:00 - 10:30 PM would require
Denverites to find alternative transportation; this may even push individuals to drive irresponsibly - something we can all
agree we, as a city, want less of.
Please consider alternatives to improve our public transit infrastructure and maintenance protocol that don’t require
permanently reducing service times.
Thank you,
Ryan Holt

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Jack Kroll
Monday, March 25, 2024 1:24 PM
Jack Kroll
FW: Keep Our Downtown Buses Running Later

From: Avey Langer <langeravelyn@icloud.com>
Sent: Saturday, March 23, 2024 6:43 PM
To: Jessie Carter <Jessie.Carter@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: Keep Our Downtown Buses Running Later
Dear Public Transportation Officials,
I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to express my concern over the recent proposal to end downtown bus
services earlier in the evening. I believe this change would have a significant negative impact on our community, and I
urge you to reconsider.
Many residents, including myself, rely on these buses for our daily commutes. The convenience of late-night service is
indispensable, not just for those working late shifts but also for those enjoying the city's nightlife, which is vital to our
local economy.
Moreover, public transportation is a cornerstone of sustainable urban living. By providing reliable and extensive bus
services, we encourage less car usage, leading to less congestion and pollution. This is a step in the right direction for our
environment and the overall health of our community.
I understand the challenges that may come with operating later services, but the benefits to the community are
immeasurable. I am confident that a solution that does not involve cutting services can be found with some creativity
and collaboration.
Thank you for your time and consideration of this important matter.
Sincerely,
Avelyn Langer

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Christopher Moore <moorecha@icloud.com>
Sunday, March 24, 2024 6:10 PM
Board Office
Service schedule

Hi, please do not reduce the already minimal service schedule! There needs to be op ons for people to even consider
riding it and cu ng it down more will only reduce any poten al demand. Thank you.
Chris Moore from Denver

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Kyle M <inputusername@gmail.com>
Monday, March 25, 2024 9:50 AM
Board Office
RTD late night schedule

Dear RTD Board Members,
Please do NOT modify the RTD schedule to stop earlier at night. I am particularly concerned about the E Line. It is
already difficult to leave Avalanche or Nuggets games from Ball Arena. We need more trains at night, not a shortened
schedule that makes RTD useless.
Thanks,
Kyle Musick

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

N. Padilla <nalylee@gmail.com>
Sunday, March 24, 2024 6:55 PM
Board Office
Feedback on proposed service reductions

I am writing with regards to the proposed service changes that would reduce train service by ending service earlier (10
or 11 pm on weekdays). I am a Denver resident and strongly oppose this change. During a time when RTD is trying to
increase ridership, I cannot imagine RTD even considering this change. The effect on ridership would be disastrous. A
system that does not operate during late night hours will only further reduce a potential riders' likelihood of using the
system. One of the few bright spots RTD currently has is its late hours, when people can use it to get home from events
(e g., sports games at Ball Arena), late work shifts, and late flights. Also, lower income households and historically
marginalized or underserved populations would likely be hurt particularly by this change, as these groups are more likely
to rely on public transit to get home from late work shifts. I have lived in a city that reduced hours to those proposed by
RTD, and the results were disastrous for the system's reputation, serving as one of the final "straws" that broke the
public's back and caused many to abandon using the system almost altogether. The harder you make it to use the
system, over time more and more people will stop considering it as an option, even during unaffected hours (i.e., the
effects are compounding in people's minds). It is also unclear why RTD needs more nighttime service hours for
maintenance when other similarly sized transit systems in other cities do not need this many hours. Please reconsider
this shortsighted proposal. Thank you for your time.

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

scooby6920 <scooby6920@aol.com>
Sunday, March 24, 2024 10:58 PM
Board Office
Don't cut late night service!

I work till late and many times RTD is my only way home. For folks that can't drive due to many issues, you are our only
way to work and to home. Don't strand folks downtown!
Sent from AOL on Android

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Katherine Stafford <katjastafford@gmail.com>
Sunday, March 24, 2024 5:57 PM
Board Office
Keep extended hours

To Whom it May Concern,
As Nuggets and Rockies season cket holders, we have been riding light rail to nearly every game for the last six years.
We also take it downtown to meet up with friends, and take it to concerts at Ball Arena and other downtown venues and
bars. In fact, the reason we bought our house was to provide us the ease and enjoyment the proximity of the train at
Garrison Sta on provided us.
If you cut the extended hours to ten p.m, it will not be a feasible op on for us. We have been very pleased that there has
been added security and cleanliness lately and we’re thrilled it was ﬁnally the service and experience we were used to.
We truly appreciate the eﬀorts you’ve made to make it be er. However, cu ng the hours would be crushing for us and
all the other hundreds of people that take it to these events. We implore you to reconsider. Thank you for your me and
considera on.
Sincerely,
Katherine Staﬀord
9400 Lombardy Lane
Lakewood, CO 80215

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Alex <astanton4@email.davenport.edu>
Sunday, March 24, 2024 6:00 PM
Board Office
Rtd changes

Dear RTD Board of Directors and Executive Leadership,
We, the undersigned community members and residents of the Regional Transportation District, are deeply concerned by
the short and long-term impacts of the proposed May 2024 Service Changes. We urge you to reject the current proposal and
work with RTD staff to ensure that safety doesn't come at a significant expense to service delivery.
We support RTD's commitment to maintaining a state of good repair and understand that large-scale maintenance
projects, like the Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project and the Coping Panel Project, are challenging and service
disruptions are inevitable with projects of this scale. However, we find it unacceptable that these disruptions to light rail
service are proposed without alternate bus accommodations.
Planned maintenance like this should include planned alternate accommodations for transit riders. Failing to do so erodes
public trust in the reliability of public transit. We urge you to reject the proposed service changes until plans for alternate
bus accommodations are made.
Similarly, we are concerned about the proposed permanent light rail service span reductions. We urge you to direct RTD
staff to learn from peer transit agencies and explore other options for completing routine maintenance that don't require
service cuts which will impact workers with non-traditional schedules who rely on RTD's late-night service, as well as those
who use public transit to access evening events and activities.
The significant service changes proposed in this package undermine the public's trust, our region's ability to meet many of
its goals, and concurrent efforts by state and local government leaders to improve public transit service and increase
ridership. We are deeply invested in the success and long-term sustainability of RTD and urge you to reject the current
proposal and work with RTD staff and leadership to address the issues outlined in this letter.
Sincerely,

Alex Stanton, Denver resident.

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Jack Kroll
Monday, March 25, 2024 1:24 PM
Jack Kroll
FW: RTD transit vote

From: sara tomala <haltensie2mich@gmail.com>
Sent: Saturday, March 23, 2024 5:29 PM
To: Jessie Carter <Jessie.Carter@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: RTD transit vote
Hi there. I urge you to vote this down the elimination of the late night light rail service. It will GREATLY IMPACT me, my
coworkers and customers with commute to work and theaters. We already deal with an impact of it also being cut short
at night. With it being cut even further, thousands of people won't be able to get to and from downtown at reasonable
times and affordable prices. This can also effect most of us to lose our jobs that we greatly need right now.
Please please please, do not vote to knock down the hours of the trains at all.
Alot of us already can't afford to park downtown.
Thank you
Sara T

1

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Yeager, Scott <Yeager-Scott@aramark.com>
Friday, March 22, 2024 8:57 AM
Debra Johnson; Jessie Carter; RTD Board Office
Urgent - Concern for Denver, Downtown and DEN - RTD's Plan to Permanently Halt Light Rail Service
Past 10 pm on Majority of Lines

RTD Members of the Board and Staﬀ,
I am wri ng to express my concerns with the proposal that is being voted on this month to close down light rail lines at
10 or 11pm nightly. As an employer of staﬀ downtown and at the Airport this shut down will have a massive impact on
my staﬀ and how they commute to work. Currently we promote public transporta on by purchasing them a monthly
pass if they use RTD and by doing this it allows us to tap into a pool of people for employment that we would not
otherwise be able to if they could not use RTD to and from work. Do to the nature of our work we have staﬀ that works
overnight coming into work at 10pm or later and also event staﬀ that typically gets oﬀ of work around 11pm. If you
chose to approve these closures this will eﬀect our business, our employees and our clients we serve to bring their
facili es a high quality service.
I am asking that you reconsider this and vote no to pass this at your next board mee ng.
Thanks,
Scott Yeager | District Manager Denver | Aramark Facilities Management

4730 Paris St. St2 120
Denver, CO 80239
M 720.353.6293
EMAIL yeager-scott@aramark.com | WEB www.aramark.com | FACEBOOK aramark | TWITTER @aramark

© 2022 Aramark. All rights reserved. This communication, including attachments, is for the exclusive use of addressee as directed by Aramark and may
contain proprietary, confidential and/or privileged information. If you are not the intended recipient, any use, copying, disclosure, dissemination or
distribution is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender immediately by return e-mail, delete this communication
and destroy all copies.
PLEASE PRINT RESPONSIBLY

1

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:

Jack Kroll
Monday, March 25, 2024 1:21 PM
Jack Kroll
FW: Denver Streets Partnership re: proposed service changes
24.03.25 DSP Grassroots Petition re_ RTD Service Changes.pdf; 24.03.25 DSP
Organizational Sign on Letter re_ RTD Service Changes.pdf

From: Molly McKinley <molly@denverstreetspartnership.org>
Sent: Monday, March 25, 2024 12:59 PM
To: Jaime Lewis <Jaime.Lewis@rtd-denver.com>; JoyAnn Ruscha <JoyAnn.Ruscha@rtd-denver.com>; Michael Guzman
<Michael.Guzman@rtd-denver.com>; Bobby Dishell <Bobby.Dishell@rtd-denver.com>; Paul Rosenthal
<Paul.Rosenthal@rtd-denver.com>; Bob Broom <bob.broom@rtd-denver.com>; Julien Paulding Bouquet
<Julien.Bouquet@rtd-denver.com>; Doug Tisdale <doug.tisdale@rtd-denver.com>; Erik Davidson <Erik.Davidson@rtddenver.com>; Vince Buzek <vince.buzek@rtd-denver.com>; Troy Whitmore <troy.whitmore@rtd-denver.com>; Ian
Harwick <Ian.Harwick@rtd-denver.com>; Marjorie Sloan <Marjorie.Sloan@rtd-denver.com>; Peggy Catlin
<peggy.catlin@rtd-denver.com>; Lynn Guissinger <lynn.guissinger@rtd-denver.com>
Cc: Debra Johnson <debra.johnson@rtd-denver.com>; Michael Davies <michael.davies@rtd-denver.com>; Jessie Carter
<Jessie.Carter@rtd-denver.com>; Michael Ford <michael.ford@rtd-denver.com>; Douglas Monroe
<Douglas.Monroe@RTD-Denver.com>; Tegan Rice <Tegan.Rice@RTD-Denver.com>; Stuart Summers
<Stuart.Summers@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: Denver Streets Partnership re: proposed service changes
Dear RTD Board Directors and RTD leadership and staff,
On behalf of the 42 organizations and 259 community members signed on to the attached letters, I'd like to express our
concerns for the proposed service changes.
These letters were written before the revisions to the service changes were made public. We'd like to thank RTD staff
and leadership for responding to the community by reducing the long-term light rail service span cuts.
Even with the recently proposed revisions to the service changes many of our concerns and requests from the attached
letters remain relevant. Regarding planned maintenance that requires route detours, we urge RTD to offer alternate bus
accommodations to limit the disruption to riders. For instance, we'd like to see a bus bridge to connect light rail riders
from 10th and Osage to Auraria Campus as the campus won't be served by light rail during the Downtown Rail
Reconstruction Project.
Further, we urge RTD to continue to explore other opportunities to do routine maintenance without cutting service
spans at all, by learning from other transit agencies and exploring creative solutions. We strongly agree that safety is a
priority and that it shouldn't be at odds with service delivery, unless there is no way around it.
Thank you for your consideration and all of the work you do to provide public transit service in our region. We welcome
the opportunity to discuss these issues further, as we are all deeply invested in the success and long-term sustainability
of RTD.
Sincerely,
Molly McKinley
1

--

2

March 25, 2024
Dear RTD Board of Directors and Executive Leadership,
We, the undersigned organizations, are deeply troubled by the short and long-term impacts of
the proposed May 2024 Service Changes. We urge you to reject the current proposal and work
with RTD staff and leadership to address the issues outlined below with creativity and the best
interest of riders who depend on your service in mind.
Rerouted light rail service
We support RTD’s commitment to maintaining a state of good repair and understand
that large-scale maintenance projects, like the Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project
and the Coping Panel Project, are challenging and service disruptions are inevitable with
projects of this scale. However, we find it unacceptable that these disruptions to light rail
service are proposed without alternate bus accommodations. The downtown detours are
especially concerning considering that Auraria Campus, where even during the summer,
many students and staff commute using public transit, will not be served by light rail
during these months.
Planned maintenance like this should include planned alternate accommodations for
transit riders. Failing to do so erodes public trust in the reliability of public transit. The
people who rely most on public transit service will continue to pay the price when our
region’s transit system fails to meet their needs and expectations.
We urge you to reject the proposed service changes until plans for alternate bus
accommodations are made.
We understand that RTD’s workforce challenges may make these types of
accommodations difficult to execute at this time, as was the case during light rail service
disruptions in late May 2023. If it remains a barrier to providing alternate bus
accommodations during planned service disruptions, we urge you to explore
opportunities that could increase flexibility in the workforce, like:

●
●
●

Incentivizing light rail operators be trained to operate buses in the case that
alternate bus accommodations need to be offered in place of light rail service
Recruiting part-time and retired operators to help fill service gaps
Looking to other agencies for creative solutions to address workforce gaps for
short term needs like these

Light rail service span reduction
We believe that safety is critical in our public transit system, but it does not have to be at
odds with service, as it is presented in the proposed permanent light rail service span
reductions. We urge you to direct RTD staff to explore other options for completing
routine maintenance that don’t require service cuts which will impact workers with
non-traditional schedules who rely on RTD’s late-night service, as well as those who use
public transit to access evening events and activities.
RTD should look to the many transit agencies around the country, like L.A. Metro,
Minneapolis METRO, and Dallas DART, who are able to provide exceptional service
spans, while maintaining a safe system.
Further, the proposed changes to light rail service spans go well beyond what is typically
included in routine service changes and deserve separate consideration. We urge you to
call on RTD staff to conduct a separate, more transparent community engagement
process when such extensive changes are proposed.
The significant service changes proposed in this package undermine the public’s trust, our
region’s ability to meet many of its goals, and concurrent efforts by state and local government
leaders to improve public transit service and increase ridership. We urge you to reject the
current proposal and work with RTD staff and leadership to address the issues outlined in this
letter. We welcome the opportunity to discuss these issues further, as we are all deeply
invested in the success and long-term sustainability of RTD.
Sincerely,
350 Colorado
AARP Colorado
Bicycle Colorado
CoPIRG
Colorado Cross Disability Coalition
Colorado Sierra Club
Denver Bicycle Lobby
Denver Regional Mobility & Access Council (DRMAC)
Denver Streets Partnership
Greater Denver Transit

National Organizations for Youth Safety (NOYS)
Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC)
Pedestrian Dignity
Servicios de la Raza
Southwest Energy Efficiency Project (SWEEP)
YIMBY Denver
Accelerate Neighborhood Climate Action
Businesses for a Livable Climate
Call to Action Colorado
CatholicNetwork US
Colorado Businesses for a Livable Climate
Community for Sustainable Energy
Green House Connection Center
Indivisible Ambassadors
Interstate 70 Citizens Advisory Group
Littleton Business Alliance
Mayfair Park Neighborhood Association
Mental Health & Inclusion Ministries
Mind's Eye Productions
Montbello Neighborhood Improvement Association
North Range Concerned Citizens
Our Sacred Earth
RapidShift Network
Save the Environmental Protection Agency
Small Business Alliance
Southwest Organization for Sustainability
Spirit of the Sun
System Change Not Climate Change
Unite North Metro Denver
Wall of Women
Womxn from the Mountain
Working for Racial Equity

March 25, 2024
Dear RTD Board of Directors and Executive Leadership,
We, the undersigned community members and residents of the Regional Transportation District,
are deeply concerned by the short and long-term impacts of the proposed May 2024 Service
Changes. We urge you to reject the current proposal and work with RTD staff to ensure that
safety doesn't come at a significant expense to service delivery.
We support RTD's commitment to maintaining a state of good repair and understand that
large-scale maintenance projects, like the Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project and the Coping
Panel Project, are challenging and service disruptions are inevitable with projects of this scale.
However, we find it unacceptable that these disruptions to light rail service are proposed without
alternate bus accommodations.
Planned maintenance like this should include planned alternate accommodations for transit
riders. Failing to do so erodes public trust in the reliability of public transit. We urge you to reject
the proposed service changes until plans for alternate bus accommodations are made.
Similarly, we are concerned about the proposed permanent light rail service span reductions. We
urge you to direct RTD staff to learn from peer transit agencies and explore other options for
completing routine maintenance that don't require service cuts which will impact workers with
non-traditional schedules who rely on RTD's late-night service, as well as those who use public
transit to access evening events and activities.
The significant service changes proposed in this package undermine the public's trust, our
region's ability to meet many of its goals, and concurrent efforts by state and local government
leaders to improve public transit service and increase ridership. We are deeply invested in the
success and long-term sustainability of RTD and urge you to reject the current proposal and
work with RTD staff and leadership to address the issues outlined in this letter.
Sincerely,

Colleen Adams
Fran Aguirre
Jillian Allison
Alex Arseneau
Michael Atkins
Nicholas Autobee
Ashley Babjack
William Baldwin
Emmett Ball
Richard Bamber
Rebecca Barnes
Kevin Barthlow
H Bruce Baskette
Sandy Bazo
Sarah Beckingham
Rose Bender
Ellis Benedyk
Britt Benninger
David Berrios
Thomas Bithell
Jake Blackstone
Mackenzie Bland
Bryan Botello
Molly Boyle
Michael Bradley
Rachel Brennan
David Bright
Christine Brinker
Luchia Brown
Dawson Byrnes
Ryan Campbell
Jessica Caouette
Jacob Carter
Mary K Casey
Jose Castro
Margot Chalmers
Cameron Chambers
Sara Chatfield Gordon
Milagros Chavez
Gretchen Cheverton
Sarah Christoff
Joseph Cirasa
Corey Clark
Toshi Clark
Edwin Clark-Silva
Rebecca Cornforth

David Corral
Allen Cowgill
Nancy Crow
Megan Darby
Josh Daugherty
Paul Day-Lucore
Phil DeBlanks
Dillon Deloge
Olivia Dorencz
Victoria Dowden
Laura Drost
Eric Earley
Diana Edwards
Brooke Ely
Sam Epperly
Andrew Erhart
Tyler Esiline
Samuel Estabrook
Nancy Fey
Karina Filipovich
Tyler Fink
James Flattum
Ron Flax
Benjamin Forer
Maxwell Frakes
Ryan Frazer
Susan Fry
Steve Gaddy
Chris Gallion
Ginny Gelbach
Anthony Gemma
Dante Gennero
Max Gesten
April Getz
Irene Glazer
Molly Goodwin-Kucinsky
Adam Gordon
Sidney Goulet
Bradley Greager
Travis Gregory
Emma Griffin
Tucker Gritton
Jessica Guarino
Omar Gutierrez
Wade Hanson
Daniel Harcourt

John Hart
Gary Harty
Jacob Harvey
Danny Havelick
Michael Heintzman
Forrest Hendricks
Matthew Hiebert
Robert Hirsch
Melody Hirzel
Raye Holab
Gregory Holm
Brian Holman
Kyle Hood
Heath Hulbert
Samantha Hurst
Paige Hyde
Ana Ilic
John Inzina
Sloane Irwin
Christopher Iversen
Beverly Jahn
Joshua Jex
Angelica Jimenez
Kathryn Jonas
Robyn Julyan
Ciarra Junsch
Omar Kaheel
Omar Kaheel
Michael Kaurich
Ahmed Kayali
Amy Kenreich
Michael Kimmelman
Alex Kluiber
Mark Knowles
Iris Kolberg
Megan Koop
Jennifer Koskinen
Larisa LaBrant
Caleb Larison
Isaac Law
Maitri Lazaroff
Heidi Leathwood
Tom Leong
Shawn Lindabury
Sam Long
Samantha LoPilato

Dani M
Josh Mabis
Travis Madsen
Shawnda Maher
Amanda Malachowski
Sam Malone
Mykayla Marek
Heather Maresh
Tyson Marinis
Krista Marks
Sam Martens
Riley Mayne
Collin McBroom
Cory Mccormick
Lamar McFarlane
Brandon McKinley
Claire Meczkowski
Kirstin Michel
Jennifer Miles
Chris Moore
Henry Moraja
Elizabeth Morales
Marc Moreno Lopez
John Morgan
Domenic Murtari
Elizabeth Navarro
Kathleen Nelson Romans
Mary Nevarrez
Adam Newman
Kathy Nguyen
Ben O'Connell
Cynthia Ord
Oluwakemi Oso
David Pantaleoni
Sara Peppers
Anne Perera
Bruce Perry
Jennifer Pfau
Jake Pfau-Martinez
John Piccirillo
Jordan Pine
Kyle Plastino
Jamie Pratt
Scot Przybylski
Ashwin Ramdas
Jonathan Ramirez
John Rasmussen
Samantha Ratzloff

Aaron Ray
Keith Reed
Hamilton Reed
Gregory Reeter
Lucas Reilly
James Reineking
Heather Reynolds
Lillian Reynolds
Aaron Reynolds
Chris Ritzo
Briana Robustelli
Tyler Rohren
Andrew Romans
Tony Romero
Anna Ropp
Jared Roush
Connor Rust
Joseph Sak
August Salbenblatt
James Salzman
Alexander Scherer
Vicki Scherer
Rachel Schrader
Hayley Schroeder
Jean Schulte
Ryan Schultz
Abreana Scorcia
Jon Scorcia
Benjamin Shpurker
Dennis Shull
William Silvia
Olivia Simard
Cindy Snalam
Andrew Sonstroem
Ryan Sotirakis
Noah Sponable
Katherine Stafford
Philip Stamato
Rachel Stevens
Krystin Stevenson
Elizabeth Stevenson
Owen Sutherland
Lauren Taylor
John TeRonde
Mark Thompson
Lauren Thurman
Jerry Tinianow
Elisa Townshend

Kevin Trautman
Ben Trepp
Kelsey Tucker
Laura Turner
Keaton Veldkamp
Paul Venable
Emelee Volden
Kate Voss
Catharine Wallace
Kathryn Wallisch
Liani Ware
James Warren
Charmaine Webb
Leslie Welch
Philip White
Patricia Whyde
Tenly Williams
Jill Wilson
Sara Wing
J Wolfe
Benedict Wright
Brina Wyss
Aerin Young
Carmela Zabala
Edith Zemanick
Sandra M Zwingelberg

March 22, 2024
Dear RTD Staff and RTD Board,
The City of Denver is understanding of RTDs goal to optimize transit services to “make lives better through
connections.” Denver encourages RTD to clarify the May 2024 service changes, communicating how these
changes impact the customer, and how they are consistent with longer-term goals in the System Optimization
Plan.
•

RTD should clarify what is happening with the money saved by ending rail system service earlier than
current practice. The non-maintenance rail network cutbacks, proposed for school nights, Sunday
through Thursday seem financially pragmatic on a cost-per-rider basis, but it is not clear how less service
fits with System Optimization Plan promises for improving services overall.

•

Excepting the A-Line to the airport, a singular, or more consistent ‘closing time’ for the rail system would
better meet customer expectancy. The various rail network ‘closing times’ of 10 PM, 11 PM, or 12
midnight for different lines is confusing for customers and sends uneven political signals to different
jurisdictions.

•

RTD should communicate a clear vision about how rail and bus services transition in the ‘after hours’
times to support shift workers / essential workers and those returning from travel late at night. If RTD
replaces cheaper bus service in the late-night hours, to be fiscally responsible, RTD still needs to
communicate how customers reach their home at the end of a night work shift or at the end of a lateevening out-of-town trip.

•

Downtown Denver is making a post-pandemic comeback, returning vitality to the core of the region.
This vibrancy includes weekday and weekend later night activities that continue to draw the public
downtown whom we hope to continue to encourage to choose transit options for travel. Consistent
service times and clear trip-making messaging are critical to providing a good connection through
downtown, regardless of the day or time.

The City and County of Denver greatly values its relationship with RTD and appreciates the opportunity to
provide comment on this upcoming action. If you have any questions, please contact David Krutsinger, DOTI
Transit Director at David.Krutsinger@Denvergov.org.
Respectfully,

Amy Ford
DOTI Executive Director
City and County of Denver — Department of Transportation & Infrastructure
201 West Colfax Ave. 6th Floor | Denver, CO 80202
www.denvergov.org/doti
Phone: 720-913-2000

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Michael Guzman
Monday, March 25, 2024 3:44 PM
RTD Board Office
District C Comment and Suggestion May Light Rail Service Changes

District C Comment and Suggestion
From: Robert Bryan <rbryan1776@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, March 25, 2024 1:54 PM
To: Michael Guzman <Michael.Guzman@rtd‐denver.com>
Subject: May Light Rail Service Changes
Dear Director Guzman,
I am writing to express my deep concern regarding the proposed cuts to service hours for the May light rail service
changes. As a frequent user of the light rail system, I have experienced firsthand the crucial role it plays in our
community's transportation network. Cutting service hours would have a detrimental impact on commuters, residents,
and businesses alike. If service workers can't rely on getting back home after their shift, why would they opt to use RTD
in the first place.
The light rail service is not merely a convenience; it is a lifeline for many individuals who rely on public transportation to
commute to work, attend school, access healthcare, and participate in essential activities. By reducing service hours, we
risk disproportionately affecting low‐income communities, people with disabilities, and those who depend on the light
rail as their primary mode of transportation. Potentially forcing people who would otherwise use RTD to perhaps
consider driving as their only reliable means of getting to and from work. This also goes against our collective efforts to
promote sustainability and reduce carbon emissions in our region.
I understand the importance of keeping our rail system in a state of good repair, but I believe that we can explore
alternative solutions which work for both riders and RTD's maintenance staff. For example, if light rail service were
suspended on a few select days per month, it would allow riders to find alternate means of transportation while giving
RTD maintenance staff a much wider window to perform their duties in safer daylight hours. RTD needs to be looking at
peer agencies for best practices, as well as, actively soliciting and considering community input in the decision‐making
process. Not quietly making service changes and expecting communities to be forced to deal with the consequences.
Thank you for your attention to this matter. I trust that you and the board will carefully consider the concerns raised by
myself and other members of the community as you make decisions regarding the future of our transit system.
Sincerely,
Cody Bryan

1

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Subject:

RTD Board Office
Late-night service Lines D, E, H, R, and W

From: Lloyd, Christopher <Christopher.Lloyd@sodexo.com>
Sent: Sunday, March 24, 2024 12:08 PM
To: Michael Guzman <Michael.Guzman@rtd‐denver.com>
Subject: Late‐night service Lines D, E, H, R, and W
Mr. Guzman,
I am writing to express my concern regarding the potential closure of the late‐night service to the D, E, H, R, and W lines.
As a member of the community and a business owner in the area, I believe that such a decision would have a
detrimental impact on both the local businesses and the individuals who rely on these lines for transportation.
The closure of these lines would not only negatively affect the businesses in the area but would also severely impair the
ability of myself and a significant portion of my staff, both Front of House (FOH) and Back of House (BOH), to commute
to and from work. Many of us rely on these public transportation services as our primary means of transportation, and
the closure would create significant challenges for us in terms of accessibility and affordability.
Furthermore, the potential loss of customers due to the unavailability of convenient public transportation options could
result in a decline in revenue for local businesses, including my own. This could ultimately lead to job losses and further
economic hardship for individuals in the community.
I urge you to reconsider the decision to close down these lines and explore alternative solutions that would allow for
continued service and support for the community. Preserving access to reliable and affordable public transportation is
essential for the well‐being and prosperity of the residents and businesses in the area.
Thank you for your attention to this matter.
Sincerely,

Chris Lloyd
General Manager
Prelude + Post
T: 720.227.9984
M: 720.786.3434
Christopher.Lloyd@sodexo.com

1

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Subject:

RTD Board Office
RTD Proposed Light Rail May Service Changes

From: Jose Castro <jcastro1399@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, March 25, 2024 10:33 AM
To: Michael Guzman <Michael.Guzman@rtd‐denver.com>
Cc: Service Change <Service.Change@rtd‐denver.com>
Subject: RTD Proposed Light Rail May Service Changes
Hi Director Guzman,
I am a resident of District C in Curtis Park. I recently read that RTD staff had proposed permanently reducing the hours of
service on most of the light rail lines to 10 pm on weekdays. I believe that initial proposal has since been revised to
maintain service until midnight on weekdays on these lines. But I want to write to make clear that a reduction in light
night service directly effects the viability of RTD use for many evening events and late night workers.
So I oppose any reduction in late night service before midnight. In fact, long‐term RTD should be extending late night
service and frequency if it wants to seriously be considered as an alternative to driving. Temporary changes, like losing
the L line for the entirety of the summer, are already tough pills to swallow for those of use that use RTD regularly. But
the initial attempt to reduce late night service permanently under the guise of temporary construction work was
misguided. And for regular maintenance, plenty of other systems manage to run late night service while keeping up with
regular maintenance. RTD should be no different.
So I write to please ask that you support maintaining late night RTD service throughout the week, and think about how
best RTD can offer late night service when needed for late night commuters and evening events.
Thanks,
Jose

1

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Subject:

RTD Board Office
Light Rail Ending at 10pm Ruins Transit

From: Kelly Stritzinger <kelly.stritz@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, March 25, 2024 4:25 PM
To: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTD‐Denver.com>
Subject: Light Rail Ending at 10pm Ruins Transit
Hello,
I'm emailing to give a comment on the upcoming May service changes that have been marketed to RTD riders as if they
are temporary and only as necessary for the construction on L line. Apparently RTD plans to PERMANENTLY end light rail
2 full hours earlier than it currently runs on most lines. These plans are not clear and written in a vague way so the
public won't notice in every document I've seen. The last 2 hours of the service are currently the most important ones.
Ending light rail service at 10pm except on weekend nights means that light rail will now be completely useless for
anyone who needs to come home from later work shifts, airport, concert, eat dinner downtown, or do anything that
isn't a daytime office job. As you know, most of those office jobs which used to exist downtown are now fully remote
so riders aren't using trains for that as much anyway. Having light rail run until 2am on weeknights is fine, but it is not an
acceptable compromise to make service useless every other day of the week. It's hard enough already with service down
to 30 min windows late at night when 2/3rds of trains are canceled.
If I have to plan all my errand/social outings based on what day of the week it is, I won't use light rail and be forced to
drive. I will no longer ride the train downtown if I know that I am likely to get hit with a $15‐20 uber home. I chose to
pay more to live in an apartment complex right next to light rail so I could stop using my car, but if the board votes to
pass these new changes you are making this impossible. For those who don't have the privilege of owning a car, these
changes could mean losing their job if they don't have a car. I have already suffered through breathing in fentanyl on
nearly every car I ride on the W, which RTD believes is acceptable. What a sad way to completely destroy the transit
system in Denver!
If you vote for this, you are directly contributing to the complete and imminent death spiral of RTD.
‐Kelly Stritzinger

1

1234532637832524795 1 4  ÿ
ÿ
 5536ÿ49ÿ ÿ 375ÿ5ÿ53ÿÿ426ÿ33571ÿ42ÿ5ÿ ÿ
ÿ
"#$%&ÿ'()&*ÿ'+',ÿ
ÿ
-$./ÿ0#1.2345*ÿ670ÿ84#$2ÿ9&#.$ÿ
ÿ
6:;.45#<ÿ7$#53=4$)#).45ÿ0.3)$.%)ÿ
ÿ
>??+ÿ8<#/:ÿ@)$::)ÿ
ÿ
0:51:$*ÿ9AÿB+'+'ÿ
ÿ
0:#$ÿ9&#.$ÿ0#1.2345*ÿ
ÿ
C$:#):$ÿ0:51:$ÿ7$#53.)ÿDC07EÿF4G<2ÿ<./:ÿ)4ÿ$:3=:%)HG<<Iÿ3GJK.)ÿ=GJ<.%ÿ%4KK:5)ÿ45ÿ)&:ÿH4<<4F.5;ÿH.1:ÿ)4=.%3Lÿ
ÿ
M25N395ÿ4 ÿ34Oÿ3283ÿP349 5Qÿ56QÿRS6453ÿ
ÿ
C07ÿ.3ÿ:T)$:K:<Iÿ=<:#3:2ÿ)4ÿ3::ÿ670ÿK#/.5;ÿ#ÿ&G;:ÿ%4KK.)K:5)ÿ)4ÿ$.2:$3ÿF.)&ÿK4J.<.)Iÿ2.3#J.<.).:3ÿJIÿ
ÿ
$:%4KK:52.5;ÿ)&:ÿ&.;&U<:1:<ÿJ4#$2.5;ÿ2:3.;5ÿH4$ÿ=<#)H4$K3ÿ#52ÿ&.;&U<:1:<ÿ)$#.53ÿ45ÿ)&:ÿHG)G$:ÿV4$)&F:3)ÿ6#.<ÿ
ÿ
3:$1.%:Wÿ
ÿ
37453ÿ ÿ XYZ ÿ[ 376ÿ957ÿ
ÿ
C07ÿJ:<.:1:3ÿ)&#)ÿ)&:ÿJ:3)ÿF#Iÿ)4ÿ2:<.1:$ÿ)&:ÿ<45;U=$4K.3:2ÿ#52ÿ14):$U#==$41:2ÿV4$)&F:3)ÿ6#.<ÿ%4$$.24$ÿ
ÿ
323ÿ9ÿ7ÿS425ÿ^ÿ53ÿ ÿÿ
Nÿ
%4KKG):$ÿ$#.<ÿ3:$1.%:ÿ.3ÿ.5ÿ=#$)5:$3&.=ÿF.)&ÿ90A7ÿ#52ÿ)&:ÿ\6]6ÿ0.3)$.%)Wÿÿ
ÿ
%#=.)#<ÿ:T=:52.)G$:3ÿ4$ÿ4=:$#).453ÿ#52ÿK#.5):5#5%:*ÿ
3_S 5Qÿ 14539ÿÿ5ÿ 5ÿ^769ÿ*ÿ:.)&:$ÿH4$ÿÿ
ÿ
#3.2:ÿH$4Kÿ)&:ÿ$:34G$%:3ÿ$:`G.$:2ÿ)4ÿ=#$).%.=#):ÿ#52ÿ%44=:$#):ÿ)4ÿ=$42G%:ÿ)&:ÿ$:`G.$:2ÿ.K=<:K:5)#).45ÿ=<#53ÿ
ÿ
#3ÿ=#$)ÿ4Hÿ)&:ÿ=#$)5:$3&.=Wÿ
ÿ
C07ÿG$;:3ÿ670ÿ)4ÿHG<<Iÿ%4KK.)ÿ)4ÿ)&:ÿ=#$)5:$3&.=ÿ#52ÿ&#52<:ÿ)&:ÿ̀G:3).45ÿ4HÿHG52.5;ÿ$:`G:3)3ÿH$4Kÿ)&:ÿ
ÿ
\#37$#%/3ÿa5):$5#<ÿ@#1.5;ÿb%%4G5)ÿD\a@bEÿ.Hÿ4$ÿF&:5ÿ)&:Iÿ%4K:ÿG=ÿ2G$.5;ÿ)&:ÿ=<#55.5;ÿ=$4%:33Wÿc#1.5;ÿ670ÿ
ÿ
%4K=<:):ÿ#ÿV4$)&F:3)ÿ]:#/ÿ@:$1.%:ÿ3)G2IÿF&.%&ÿ.;54$:3ÿ=$4=43#<3ÿ)4ÿ$G5ÿ\6]6ÿa5):$%.)Iÿ$#.<ÿ3:$1.%:3ÿ45ÿ)&:ÿ
ÿ
3#K:ÿ)$#%/3ÿ54Fÿ$:=$:3:5)3ÿ=44$ÿ1#<G:ÿ)4ÿ)&:ÿ)#T=#I:$Wÿbÿ3/.<<HG<<IÿF$.)):5ÿ#52ÿ:T:%G):2ÿ%&#5;:ÿ4Hÿ3%4=:ÿF.)&ÿ
ÿ
670d3ÿ%453G<)#5)ÿc06ÿ.3ÿ54Fÿ$:`G.$:2ÿH$4Kÿ)&:ÿ=$4e:%)ÿ):#KWÿÿC07d3ÿ1.:Fÿ.3ÿ)&#)ÿ)&:ÿ3%4=:ÿ%&#5;:3ÿ%#5ÿJ:ÿ
ÿ
:#3.<Iÿ%4K=<:):2ÿF.)&.5ÿ#ÿfUK45)&ÿ=:$.42ÿ.HÿF4$/ÿ.3ÿ2.3)$.JG):2ÿ#%$433ÿ)&:ÿ%453G<)#5)ÿ):#KWÿ
ÿ
\4$ÿ)&:ÿ$:%4$2*ÿC07ÿ#<34ÿJ:<.:1:3ÿ.)ÿ.3ÿ1.)#<ÿ)&#)ÿ)&:ÿ\6]6ÿ0.3)$.%)ÿ)#/:ÿ$:%.=$4%#<ÿ3):=3ÿ)4ÿ:53G$:ÿ)&#)ÿ)&:.$ÿ
ÿ
%453G<)#5)ÿcV78d3ÿ@:$1.%:ÿ0:1:<4=K:5)ÿ]<#5ÿ%45):K=<#):3ÿ)&:ÿHG)G$:ÿJ<:52:2ÿ%4KKG):$ÿ#52ÿ.5):$%.)Iÿ$#.<ÿ
ÿ
3:$1.%:*ÿ:3=:%.#<<Iÿ3:$1.%:ÿ)&#)ÿ:T%::23ÿ)&:ÿ=:#/ÿ3:$1.%:Wÿ
ÿ

NNN1234532637832524795 ÿ
ÿ

413ÿÿ
ÿ
Yÿ

1234532637832524795 1 4  ÿ
ÿ
757ÿ4 ÿ75329357ÿ3795257ÿ75245ÿ426ÿ
ÿ
ÿ!"ÿ#$ÿ%&#ÿ#$&#ÿ%'()ÿ*'"+""'(ÿ&(*ÿ,+-'ÿ!!(#ÿ&#ÿ&"#ÿ! (#$."ÿ/ &0*ÿ!#'()1ÿ#$ÿ
ÿ
2 (#0&#ÿ 0#$ÿ34156715841ÿ,0, "*ÿ#ÿ-ÿ&&0**ÿ#ÿ90'"$ÿ2 ("#0+#'(1ÿ:(;ÿ'"ÿ-'()ÿ,0"(#*ÿ-<ÿ"#&%%ÿ
ÿ
%0ÿ/ &0*ÿ&,,0=&;ÿ$&#ÿ"&'*1ÿÿ +*ÿ'>ÿ#ÿ0!'(*ÿ'0#0"ÿ%ÿ#$'0ÿ%'*+'&0<ÿ*+#'"ÿ#ÿ#$ÿ,+-'ÿ&(*ÿ#$ÿ
ÿ
(*ÿ%0ÿ#$!ÿ#ÿ0='ÿ&ÿ!,#ÿ"#ÿ%ÿ,0, "*ÿ(#0&#ÿ* +!(#"1ÿ$'$ÿÿ+(*0"#&(*ÿ!,0!'""ÿ
ÿ
ÿ%?ÿ
@ÿÿ
ÿ
AÿAB+"#ÿ%0ÿC0, "&"ÿ&(*ÿ&ÿ'""+*ÿD**(*&ÿ
@ÿÿ
ÿ
90'"$ÿ2 ("#0+#'(ÿ$('&ÿC0, "&ÿ
@ÿÿ
ÿ
Aÿ2 "#ÿC0, "&"ÿ!,#*ÿ-<ÿ90'"$ÿ2 ("#0+#'(ÿ
@ÿÿ
ÿ
AÿE/FÿE+-!'""'("ÿ!,#*ÿ-<ÿ90'"$ÿ2 ("#0+#'(ÿ
@ÿÿ
ÿ
AÿE+-!'""'("ÿ!,#*ÿ-<ÿ90'"$ÿ2 ("#0+#'(ÿ
/&+"ÿ%ÿ#$'"1ÿÿ +*ÿ'>ÿ#ÿ0",#%+<ÿ&">ÿ#$&#ÿ'0#0"ÿ$ ÿ$&=ÿ( #ÿ$&*ÿ#$ÿ,, 0#+('#<ÿ#ÿ0='ÿ
ÿ
#$ÿ!,#ÿ"#ÿ%ÿ(#0&#ÿ* +!(#"ÿ#ÿ=#ÿG( Hÿ0ÿ&-"#&'(ÿ(ÿ#$'"ÿ'#!;ÿ
ÿ
I4JÿKLKMÿN53ÿOÿP3283ÿQR5Jÿ74J99ÿ
ÿ
ÿ'"ÿ( #ÿ"+0,0'"*ÿ#$&#ÿ#$ÿ'#ÿS:ÿE0='ÿFB+'#<ÿD(&<"'"ÿ%+(*ÿ#$&#ÿ0'("#&#'()ÿ#$ÿT0ÿU#0A'*ÿ$&*ÿ&ÿ
ÿ
, #(#'&ÿ*'",&0&#ÿ'!,&#;ÿV =0ÿÿ%'(*ÿ#$ÿ(+"'(ÿ#$&#ÿ#$0ÿ&0ÿGW ÿ,0&#'&ÿ&#0(&#'="ÿ#ÿ&='*1ÿ
ÿ
!'('!'Xÿ0ÿ!'#')&#ÿ#$ÿ%'(*'()"HÿYÿ
ÿ
D)(*&ÿC&>#ÿÿ
C&)ÿZ[Zÿ
\ÿ"!$&#ÿ"#0&()ÿ)'=(ÿ#$0ÿ&0ÿ%'=ÿ-+"ÿÿ
0+#"ÿ
Y71ÿ]1ÿZ71ÿZ[ÿ&(*ÿZ]\ÿ#$&#ÿ=0ÿ#$ÿT0ÿU#0A'*."ÿ0+#ÿ-#(ÿ^('(ÿE#&#'(ÿ&(*ÿ2'='ÿ2(#0;ÿ
ÿ
2&0'%'&#'(ÿ0)&0*'()ÿ#$ÿ(&#+0ÿ%ÿ#$'"ÿ(+"'(ÿ'"ÿ&,,0'&#*1ÿ,&0#'+&0<ÿ'(ÿ0)&0*"ÿ#ÿ$ ÿ%&0"ÿ'!,&#ÿ
ÿ
#$ÿ*#0!'(&#'(ÿ%ÿG,0&#'&ÿ&#0(&#'="H;ÿ
ÿ
F=(ÿ'%ÿ#$ÿT0ÿU#0A'*."ÿ0'(#0*+#'(ÿ'"ÿ_+"#'%'*ÿ(ÿ#!, 0&0<ÿ)0+(*"1ÿ'#ÿ"$ +*ÿ-ÿ( #*ÿ#$&#ÿ#$'"ÿ0+#ÿ
ÿ
$&"ÿ-(ÿ_+*)*ÿ( (`!,'&(#ÿ'#$ÿ'#ÿS:ÿ, ''"ÿ!&('()ÿ#$0ÿ'"ÿ+00(#<ÿ( ÿ_+"#'%'&#'(ÿ#ÿ!&>ÿ'#"ÿ
ÿ
0'("#&#!(#ÿ,0!&((#;ÿ
ÿ
ÿ +*ÿ'>ÿ#ÿ0,&#ÿ'#"ÿ&ÿ#ÿ"0&,ÿ#$ÿ0'(#0*+#'(ÿ%ÿ#$ÿT0ÿU#0A'*ÿ&()ÿZ8#$ÿ&(*ÿZ]#$ÿ"#0#"ÿ
ÿ
'(ÿ%&=0ÿ%ÿa#(*'()ÿ#$ÿ7bÿ%0!ÿ2'='ÿ2(#0ÿ#ÿ^('(ÿE#&#'(ÿ&(*ÿ0*,<'()ÿ,0&#0"ÿ(ÿ#$ÿ%'=ÿa'"#'()ÿ
ÿ
-+"ÿ0+#"ÿ$'$ÿ,0%0!ÿ#$ÿ"&!ÿ0ÿ-#(ÿ2'='ÿ2(#0ÿ&(*ÿ^('(ÿE#&#'(;ÿ$ÿ (#(ÿA&'ÿ
ÿ
A("#0+#'(ÿC0_#ÿ'"ÿ&(ÿ,, 0#+('#<ÿ%0ÿA."ÿ0)+&0ÿ* (#(ÿ-+"ÿ(# 0>ÿ#ÿ-ÿ- "#*ÿ&(*ÿ'(="#*ÿ
ÿ
'(1ÿ&(*ÿ("+0ÿ&(<ÿ'(="#!(#"ÿ&0ÿ"#0&#)'&<ÿ*,<*;ÿ
ÿ
ÿ&"ÿ0&""0#"ÿ+0ÿ,0, "&ÿ#$&#ÿ+"ÿ%ÿ#$ÿAÿT0ÿU#0A'*ÿB+',!(#ÿ"$ +*ÿ-ÿ"#+*'*ÿ%0ÿ
ÿ
ÿ,0&#'(ÿ(ÿ/&>ÿ&(*ÿU&0>#ÿ"#0#"ÿ-#(ÿ#$ÿ&#+0ÿ̀ÿT*0&ÿE#&#'(ÿ(ÿ#$ÿcÿb'(ÿ&(*ÿ#$ÿ58#$ÿdÿ
/&>ÿE#&#'(ÿ(ÿ#$ÿDÿb'(;ÿÿcÿ-'=ÿ#$'"ÿ +*ÿ-ÿ#$ÿ-"#̀+"ÿ%ÿT0ÿU#0A'*ÿB+',!(#ÿ&(*ÿ
ÿ
ÿ,0&#0"1ÿ&"ÿ'#ÿ +*ÿ&**0""ÿ#$ÿ&0)"#ÿ"0='ÿ)&,ÿ'#$'(ÿ#$ÿ (#(ÿ&0&ÿY((#'()ÿE+(ÿS&<1ÿ#$ÿ
D+0&0'&ÿ2&!,+"1ÿb  1ÿ2 0"ÿT'*1ÿT'=ÿC '(#"1ÿ&(*ÿA'W \;ÿ:#ÿ +*ÿ&"ÿ-ÿ(ÿ%ÿ#$ÿ! "#ÿ%%#'=ÿ
ÿ
!#$ *"ÿ'(ÿ,0='*'()ÿ0&'ÿ0,&!(#ÿ"0='ÿ#$'"ÿ"+!!0ÿ#ÿ&**0""ÿ#$ÿ"#ÿFec`0'(#*ÿ')$#ÿ0&'ÿ"0='ÿ'(ÿ
ÿ
(#0&ÿ (#(ÿ&(*ÿ +*ÿ!,!(#ÿ'#$ +#ÿ*+,'&#'()ÿ#$ÿa'"#'()ÿ58ÿ&(*ÿ45ÿ-+"ÿ0+#";ÿ
ÿ

1234532637832524795 ÿ
ÿ

f413ÿÿ
ÿ
Kÿ

1234532637832524795 1 4  ÿ
ÿ
4ÿÿ3283ÿ4713ÿ2949ÿ
ÿ
ÿ !"#$ %ÿ&' ÿ()"!*%(#)ÿ#+ÿ,*-!("ÿ"#$$ )&ÿ.(&/*,%ÿ()ÿ&' ÿ01 )20ÿ,0"3&4ÿ'("'ÿ- &&.ÿ"#$$*)("0&%ÿ
ÿ
&' ÿ()&)&ÿ0)2ÿ&#) ÿ#+ÿ&' ÿ()2(5(2*0!ÿ"#$$ )&.%6ÿ7 ÿ0.ÿ0!%#ÿ,!0%2ÿ&#ÿ% ÿ0ÿ"!0.ÿ%&0&$ )&ÿ#)ÿ'#ÿ&' ÿ
ÿ
;1 )20ÿ
8 .5("ÿ 5!#,$ )&ÿ(5(%(#)ÿ'0%ÿ!(%&) 2ÿ&#ÿ,*-!("ÿ+ 2-0"3ÿ0)2ÿ0!&.2ÿ&' (.ÿ,.#,#%0!%ÿ0""#.2()1!9ÿ:ÿ
ÿ
<0"3&ÿ<01 ÿ=>?ÿ@6ÿÿ'#, %ÿ&' %ÿ&#ÿ) ÿ($,.#5$ )&%ÿÿ
ÿ
()ÿ&.0)%,0.)"9ÿ(!!ÿ- ÿ, .$0) )&6'0&ÿ%0(24ÿ ÿ
'#, ÿ&' ÿ8 .5("ÿ 5!#,$ )&ÿ(5(%(#)ÿ(!!ÿ022.%%ÿ&' ÿ(%%* ÿ' .ÿ&' ÿ,*-!("ÿ(%ÿ0%32ÿ&#ÿ"#$$ )&ÿ#)ÿ0)2ÿ
ÿ
&' ÿA#0.2ÿ(%ÿ0%32ÿ&#ÿ0,,.#5ÿ,.#,#%2ÿ%.5("ÿ"'0)1 %ÿ(&'#*&ÿ5(%(-(!(&9ÿ#+ÿ,.#,#%2ÿ%"' 2*!%6ÿ7'(!ÿ ÿ
ÿ
0"",&ÿ&'0&ÿ&' .ÿ(%ÿ0ÿ,#%%(-(!(&9ÿ#+ÿ"'0)1 %ÿ'0,, )()1ÿ2*.()1ÿ&' ÿ.*)/"*&&()1ÿ,.#"%%4ÿ ÿ2#ÿ)#&ÿ- !(5ÿ&'0&ÿ
ÿ
2.0+&ÿ%"' 2*!%ÿ%'#*!2ÿ- ÿ+*!!9ÿ' !2ÿ-0"3ÿ0%ÿ0ÿ.%*!&ÿ#+ÿ%0(2ÿ,.#"%%6ÿ
ÿ
B 10.2()1ÿ&' ÿ0"&*0!ÿ,.#,#%2ÿ%.5("ÿ"'0)1 %4ÿÿ(%ÿC&.$ !9ÿ,!0%2ÿ&#ÿ% ÿ&'0&ÿ%&0++ÿ'05ÿ(&'2.0)ÿ
ÿ
&' ÿ2 ,!9ÿ&.#*-!()1ÿ,.#,#%0!ÿ&#ÿ)2ÿ$(2 3ÿ!(1'&ÿ.0(!ÿ%.5("ÿ0%ÿ0.!9ÿ0%ÿ=D,$6ÿ7'(!ÿ ÿ*)2 .%&0)2ÿ&' ÿ
ÿ
()(&(0!ÿ.0%#)()1ÿ+#.ÿ%*"'ÿ0ÿ,.#,#%0!ÿ0%ÿ&' ÿ050(!0-(!(&9ÿ#+ÿ$0()&)0)"ÿ()2#%4ÿ&#ÿ+*!!9ÿ)%*.ÿ&' ÿ- %&ÿ
ÿ
,#%%(-!ÿ%.5("ÿ'(!ÿ$0()&0()()1ÿC$,!0.9ÿ!(1'&ÿ.0(!ÿ%0+&9ÿ%&0)20.2%ÿ ÿ)"#*.01 ÿ%&0++ÿ&#ÿ+*!!9ÿ.5(ÿ!(1'&ÿ
ÿ
.0(!ÿ$0()&)0)"ÿ,!0)%4ÿ$0()&)0)"/#+/09ÿ%&0++ÿ050(!0-(!(&9E"#5.01 4ÿ2#"*$ )&2ÿ%0+ÿ%9%&$%ÿ#+ÿ#.3ÿ0)2ÿ
ÿ
.(1'&/#+/09ÿ0""%%ÿ0..0)1 $ )&%ÿ010()%&ÿ()2*%&.9ÿ- %&ÿ,.0"&("%4ÿ&03()1ÿ(),*&ÿ+.#$ÿ, .ÿ01 )"(%ÿ0)2ÿ()2*%&.9ÿ
ÿ
ÿC, .&%ÿ0%ÿ0,,.#,.(0&6ÿÿ0!%#ÿ*.1 %ÿ%&0++ÿÿ&#ÿ%&*29ÿ&' ÿ++"&%ÿ#+ÿ&' ÿ(&'2.00!ÿ#+ÿ0.!9ÿ$#.)()1ÿ!(1'&ÿ.0(!ÿ
%.5("%4ÿ,0.&("*!0.!9ÿ#)ÿ&'#%ÿ'#ÿ'05ÿ%'(+&ÿ#.3ÿ%&0.&()1ÿ-9ÿ?0$ÿ#.ÿ0(.,#.&ÿ#.3.%ÿ&'0&ÿ) 2ÿ&#ÿ"#)) "&ÿ#)ÿ
ÿ
&#ÿ0.!9ÿ$#.)()1ÿ;ÿF() ÿ&.0()%6ÿ7 ÿ'#, ÿ&'0&ÿ()ÿ&($ 4ÿ%#$ ÿ0.!9ÿ&.0()%ÿ0.ÿ.()%&0&2ÿ#.ÿ%*-%&(&*&ÿ-*%%ÿ0.ÿ
ÿ
.*)ÿ&#ÿ)%*.ÿ&'0&ÿ&' %ÿ.(2 .%E"#)%&(&* )&%ÿ0.ÿ0-!ÿ&#ÿ*%ÿ&.0)%(&ÿ%*""%%+*!!96ÿ
ÿ
G()0!!94ÿ#) ÿ%.5("ÿ"'0)1 ÿ&'0&ÿ(%ÿ$#%&ÿ !"#$ ÿ(%ÿ&' ÿ022(&(#)ÿ#+ÿ0ÿ!0&ÿ)(1'&ÿ)#.&'-#*)2ÿ2 ,0.&*.ÿ#)ÿ&' ÿHÿ
ÿ
F() ÿ+.#$ÿI)(#)ÿ8&0&(#)ÿ0&ÿ==J>?,$ÿ#)ÿ80&*.209ÿ)(1'&%6ÿ'(%ÿ(%ÿ()".2(-!9ÿ' 0.&)()1ÿ+#.ÿBK%ÿ,.#%, "&%ÿ()ÿ
ÿ
0(2()1ÿ#)&#)ÿ.5(50!ÿ++#.&%4ÿ0)2ÿ ÿ0.ÿ0,,."(0&(5ÿ#+ÿ&'(%ÿ022(&(#)6ÿÿÿ'#, %ÿ&'0&ÿ022(&(#)0!ÿ&.0()%ÿ(!!ÿ
ÿ
0!%#ÿ- ÿ022 2ÿ()ÿ&' ÿ+*&*.ÿ#)ÿG.(209ÿ)(1'&%ÿ0)2ÿ&' )ÿ$(2 34ÿ' .ÿ.(2 .%ÿ"*..)&!9ÿ'05ÿ&#ÿ$03ÿ2#ÿ(&'ÿ0ÿ
ÿ
!0%&ÿ)#.&'-#*)2ÿ2 ,0.&*.ÿ0&ÿ=DJ>?,$4ÿ&#ÿ+*.&' .ÿ-##%&ÿ.(2 .%'(,6ÿ
ÿ
#ÿ.(&.0&4ÿ ÿ0.ÿ5.9ÿ,!0%2ÿ0&ÿ%&0++K%ÿ++#.&%ÿ&#ÿ.5(%ÿ&' ÿ%.5("ÿ"'0)1 %ÿ+#!!#()1ÿ,*-!("ÿ"#$$ )&4ÿ
ÿ
0!#)1%(2 ÿ()".0%2ÿ&.0)%,0.)"9Lÿ ÿ*)2 .%&0)2ÿ&'0&ÿ&' %ÿ"'0)1 %ÿ0.ÿ#+&)ÿ2(++("*!&ÿ&#ÿ($,!$ )&ÿ1(5)ÿ
ÿ
&($ ÿ"#)%&.0()&%4ÿ0)2ÿ ÿ&'0)3ÿ%&0++ÿ+#.ÿ&' (.ÿ2(!(1 )"ÿ'(!%&ÿ+*.&' .()1ÿ,*-!("ÿ&.*%&ÿ()ÿB6ÿ7 ÿ0!%#ÿ&'0)3ÿ&' ÿ
ÿ
A#0.2ÿ+#.ÿ&' ÿ#,,#.&*)(&9ÿ&#ÿ)101 ÿ0)2ÿ!##3ÿ+#.0.2ÿ&#ÿ&#$#..#ÿ)(1'&K%ÿ$ &()16ÿ<!0%ÿ2#ÿ)#&ÿ' %(&0&ÿ&#ÿ
ÿ
.0"'ÿ#*&ÿ&#ÿ*%ÿ(&'ÿ0)9ÿM* %&(#)%E"#)".)%ÿ9#*ÿ$09ÿ'056ÿ
ÿ
'0)3%ÿ+#.ÿ0!!ÿ9#*ÿ2#4ÿ
ÿ
N0$ %ÿG!0&&*$ÿ
ÿ
.0&.ÿ )5.ÿ.0)%(&ÿ
ÿ

B("'0.2ÿA0$- .ÿ
ÿ
.0&.ÿ )5.ÿ.0)%(&ÿ
ÿ

OOJÿ ÿ
ÿ
BÿA#0.2ÿ#+ÿ(."&#.%ÿ
 -.0ÿN#')%#)4ÿBÿ ) .0!ÿP0)01 .ÿQÿORS6ÿ
ÿ
TTT1234532637832524795 ÿ
ÿ

413ÿÿ
ÿ
Uÿ

March 26, 2024
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Good Morning RTD Board of Directors,
Thank you for your service in providing outstanding transportation options to people who live in as well as visit our
region. I’ve shared with RTD General Manager Debra Johnson that RTD provides much more than simply the
utility of public transport from A to B.
RTD connects communities to the spaces and places they love and, in most circumstances, to the spaces and places
that keep them alive. My mother catches two buses from her apartment in Five Points to Denver Health’s Eastside
Clinic. She does this to demonstrate her independence. She also does this to socialize – she knows the bus drivers
by name and most of the passengers, too. You are my mother’s lifeline to a healthy and thriving lifestyle.
I am writing to share my thoughts on an agenda item dated March 13, 2024, from your Operations & Safety meeting
(“Rail Changes” pp.60-61). The item describes proposed hourly changes for rail service in response to rail
reconstruction and maintenance. The service extension for example with the W line on Friday and Saturday to 2am
is welcomed. The reduction of hours for some of the lines to 10pm Sunday – Thursday is of concern. You all are
aware of the direct impact reduction of service and hourly changes for rail access will have on our most vulnerable
residents. A quick calculation highlighting the customer impact provided in your agenda item reveals a direct
impact to 856 riders. The real impact due to inconsistent and unreliable service could contribute to a significant
decrease in ridership long term.
I respect your professionalism and your efforts to be educated on items that come before you for a vote. I am
encouraging a ‘no’ vote on the proposed reduction of hours. I am encouraging RTD to consider alternative
strategies that provide a window to complete maintenance without the direct impact to our workers, our residents,
and our family members who rely on light rail as their primary, affordable, and accessible means for transportation.
Riders like my mother count on your discernment.
Thank you again for your leadership.
Sincerely,

Darrell Watson
Denver City Council
District 9

