Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 10, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
April 10, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy,
Malpiede, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, James and Walker.
Directors Anderson Deadwyler and Williams

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, J. Skip Brown, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
James Cook, Martell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien,
Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara
McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross- Amato, Jannette
Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Greg
Smith, Mike Turner, Michael Washington, Phil Washington, Susan
Wood, Don Young.

Others Present:

Laura Aldrete – PB, Dan Cohen – DU, Gary Forbes – First Transit, Stan
Gronek – ATU1001, Lee Johnson, Stu ‘Livensparger – First Transit,
Chris Nevitt, Seth Patterson, Larry Tenenholz – Veolia, Chris Wargetv –
DU, Katrina Wert – CCD/WIN.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 8:09 p.m.

Recommended Action
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend
the contract with IBI Group as the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of
RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL)
Systems (Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment is for the fourth year of a five
year period of performance. The scope and fee are renegotiated annually. The fourth-

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 2 of 3

year fee is not to exceed a limit of $2,600,000 for a total contract value to date of
&7,922,000.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to
forward these items to the full Board
at the April 17, 2012 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Tobiassen asked when this
all will take place. Eric Farrington
stated by the end of the year.

Vote on
Motion:
II.

The Motion passed Unanimously.

Information


SMT Project Status Update
Bruce Abel shared that Phase 1 is to implement ECO pass up to smart card. Phase
2 the monthly pass implantation. Phase 3 stored value card. Phase 4 New TVM
will take care of selling light rail tickets where you will be able to use credit cards.
Director Hoy asked will the smart card work in the parking piece in the near
future. Bruce Abel stated we will look into that. Hoy asked can the smart card
expire. Bruce Abel stated yes it can.
Director Tayer asked what the results from the second effort study that was due
April 10th. Second, he strongly urges RTD to publicize the pilot program so people
become aware of what and why we are implementing the program. Bruce stated
that we are currently working with the Marketing team to get out publications
and in regards to the study results as of yesterday we required at 99.9% on the
1000 transactions, as of yesterday we had 800 transactions at 100%, no report
for today for the last couple hundred transactions are.
Director Malpiede asked in regards to the Eco Pass, if once an employee leaves
can the card be shut off. Bruce Abel stated yes, the employer has a system on
their side that would allow them to shut it off once an employee terminated.
Director James asked if someone outside the agency was onboard to help assist
with the testing of the Smart Card Project. Bruce Abel stated yes.
Director Walker wanted to know how he can participate in that study. General
Manager Washington stated that he can place his name on the list for testers.
Bruce Abel gave some information just to put on the Boards radar in regards to
the Fare Policy Issues because we will have to come to the board eventually; the

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 3 of 3

information was provided to the Board and encourages the Board to read it. It
details currently what RTD offers and what some of the changes will be.


CAD/AVL Project Status update
No new updates.
Director Daly commented that he did take a tour of the project and that it looked
very good.



Fare Box Replacement Project Status Update
Bruce Abel stated that test has been completed and it has met the threshold
made out. Details of the accuracy testing are available if you would like a copy of
the report.



Fourth quarter reports (security, contracted services (FR, ADA, Special Services)
Bruce Abel introduced the other GM’s in attendances which are Larry Tenenholz
GM of Veolia, Stu ‘Livensparger – GM for First Transit Denver, Gary Forbes – GM
for First Transit Longmont, and Lee Johnson – GM for Commerce City, all in
connection with the fixed route contract operations. Also introduced was the
Head of Security, Bob Grado.

III.

Other Matters
Performance reports – none for Conover. Director Daly requested a report on the call-nride service to be included for future reporting.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – April 17, 2012

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:56 p.m.

