Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 13, 2008
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

May 14, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday, May 13, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:
Staff Present:

Call to Order:
I.

Chair Bruce Daly, Vice-Chair Barbara Yamrick, Juanita Chacon, Bill
Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen,
Wally Pulliam, Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer
Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Chris Martinez
Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Bill Porter, David Genova, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, Tony McCaulay, Brian Matthews, Larry Buter, Carolyn
Conover, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee
****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m.

Recommended Action
Increase Funding for Veolia “Group 16” Fixed Route Contract – Bruce Abel, Assistant
General Manager, Customer and Contracted Services introduced these items together.
These actions do not ask for a change in the budget but a change to the legal authority
to raise the contract amount to account for increases in fuel and changes in services.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to amend the Veolia “Group 16”
fixed-route contract to cover increased costs associated with service level increases and
increases in fuel costs over the term of the contract:


Group 16 – add $4,810,000.00 to increase the amount authorized from
$58,591,878.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on November 14, 2006, to a
revised contract authority amount of $63,401,878.00.

Increase Funding for Laidlaw “Group 15” Fixed Route Contract

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 2 of 5

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to amend the Laidlaw “Group
15” fixed-route contract to cover increased costs incurred due to service level
increases and increased fuel costs over the term of the contract:


Group 15 – add $13,270,000.00 to increase the amount authorized
from $99,250,564.00 as approved by the Board of Directors on
November 14, 2006, to a revised contract authority amount of
$112,520,564.00.

Motion:

Director Ruchman made a
motion for approval for both
Group 16 and Group 15
before the full Board at the
May 20, 2008 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded
the motion.

Discussion: Director Ruchman asked if these changes regarding the budget had nothing to
do with changing the cost per hour of service but simply adjustment in the contract and fuel
recovery cost for the private contractors. Bruce Abel said this is correct.
Vote On
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in
Favor (Daly, Chacon,
Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, and
Tayer) and 1 opposed
(Yamrick)

August 2008 Service Changes – Bruce Abel introduced this action. The increase in
ridership and the decrease in sales tax have greatly affected service. This action is to
take the Service Changes to the public and then the June Board meeting would be the
action to implement the changes. Bruce Abel said there are additional service changes
that staff is proposing if the Board would like to consider it.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 3 of 5

Directors approve moving the proposed August 17, 2008 Service Changes (Attachment A)
on to public review and comment.
Main Motion:

Second:

Director Yamrick made a
motion for approval before
the full Board at the May 20,
2008 Board Meeting.
Director McMullen seconded
the motion.

Discussion: Director Ruchman suggested that staff also prepare information to the public so
that if the Board decides to move ahead with it, the public would be informed. Director
Yamrick asked if this was an amendment to her motion. Director Ruchman said he was asking
staff to augment the paperwork in case we do need to go ahead with additional changes.
Director Quinlan said to move ahead with the motion and then under new business consider
the additional changes. Bruce Abel felt that it would be better to amend the original motion to
include the additional service changes to move it forward as one package. Director Quinlan
agreed with this approach. Bill Porter, Manager, Service Planning/Scheduling said that the
additional service changes should go with the August service changes to the public so that
comment can be received and evaluated. Director Quinlan asked if the Service Changes could
be passed as motioned and seconded and then the additional changes passed and added to
them. Mr. Abel said that would be fine. Director McMullen expressed concern with the public
perception of cutting service when the District has received such positive press with the
increase in ridership. He would like to see notices on the buses and light rail trains addressing
the situation.
Director Tayer expressed concern about approving service changes that the Board had not had
time to review.
Director Pulliam said the motion was on the table and that the Committee should listen to the
proposed amendments and then vote. Director Yamrick said that she made a motion to pass
the original service changes and that should be voted on and then discussion on anything
additional be discussed after the vote.
Director Christopher said that all the service changes need to go forward at once and not a half
way approach. Director Christopher reminded the committee that all the action was for was to
move the service changes to public hearing.
Call the
Question:

Director Quinlan called the
question. It was voted on
with a vote of 7 to 5.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 4 of 5

Vote On
Motion:

Amended Motion:

Second:

The motion passed 7 in
favor to proceed with the
original motion (Chacon,
Daly, Kinton, McMullen,
Quinlan, Tayer and
Yamrick) and 5 against
(Pulliam, Christopher,
Elfenbein, Kemp and
Ruchman)
Director Ruchman made a
motion to receive the
additional service changes
and then forward them
along with the original
package for public
comment.
Director Elfenbein seconded
the motion.

Discussion: Directors Tayer and Kinton expressed concern about adding additional service
changes without having more time to review them. Director Kinton pointed out that most
of the service changes in 2008 have been spending money and not cutting routes. Director
Tayer indicated he needed to review these additional requested service changes as part of
an aggregate consideration for budget cuts and needs to see the other options.
Bill Porter reviewed some additional service changes. There will be a revised Board Report
in the Friday packet detailing the additional service changes. Director Elfenbein asked
about additional budget cuts (outside of service changes) that the Board can expect to see.
Mr. Abel responded that staff was working on this. The Board is anxious to receive this
information as soon as possible.
Vote On
Motion:

The motion passed with
11 in favor (Chacon,
Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, and Yamrick) and
1 opposed (Tayer)

Chair Daly called the motion passed to include the additional services changes brought
forth tonight with the original package to be moved before the full Board for approval

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 5 of 5

for public comments and review.
II.

Quarterly Reports – Bruce Abel said the reports were in the packet and asked if there
any question. There were no questions regarding any of the Competitive Services,
Special Services, access-a-Ride reports.
Security – David Genova spoke to changes in the report, including both Wackenhut and
RTD fare inspectors and the additional information provided in the report.

III.

Update on Route Match – Bruce Abel reported that the go live date is Friday, June 6,
2008.

IV.

Other Matters – Bill McMullen would like to have “The RTD Board of Directors welcomes
you to Denver” on mall shuttles.

V.

Next Meeting Date: This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Services
Committee will be June 10, 2008 at 5:30 p.m.

VI.

Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 8:08 p.m.

