Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on March 8, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Barbara McManus, Administrative Assistant

Date:

March 9, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held March 8, 2011 in
Rooms R, T & D

*******************************************************************
Board
Members Present: Committee Chair Brohl, Directors; Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley,
and Tayer, Tobiassen; Chair Kemp
Directors
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Bauderman, Lacy Bell, Janne Bennick, Larry Buter, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lee Cryer, Charles Culig, Kevin
Diviness, Jane Donovan, Martell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Ken Hardin, Terry Howerter, Tom Hughes, Austin
Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, M. McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Brian
Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Karen Morales, Andy Mutz,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino,
Teresa Sedmak, Danielle Smith, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt
Stringer, Christina Tubb, Mike Turner, Tim Urseton,Del Walker, Bill Van
Meter, Michael Washington, Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Kevin Abels, Tom Aere, Greg Amparano, Steve Arasan, Debra Baskett,
Janne Bennick, Matt Bergles, Eric Biga, Ocie Brown, Evan Burton, Roy
Caldwell, Mac Callison, Sara Castellanos, Craig Carter, Delilah Collins, Craig
Coon, Chris Cruz, Victoria Culverson, Lindsay D’Andrea, Audrey DeBarros,
Commissioner Cindy Domenico, Marirosa Donisi, Geneva Doss, Selena
Dunham, Chuck Easterlig, Aaron Epstein, Dave Erb, Kirsten Gosch,
Ellsworth Grant, Phil Greenwald, Freddie Hanns, Daniel Harper, Randy
Harrison, Dick Hinson, Gloria Holiday, John Huggins, Robert Jackson, Terri
Jackson, Danny Katz, Melanie Keene, Steve Klausing, Zack Knows, Ed
Knox, Bruce Johnson, Alan Lee, Sean Lehocky, Matt Lutkus, Mayor Nancy
McNally, Cynthia McNell, Claudie Minor, Enrique Moreno, Mayor Murphy,
Mayor Paul Natale, Sandy Nervig, Stephen Newhouse, Franciso Nunez, Gene

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on March 8, 2011
Page 2 of 4

Ouvir, David Parker, Michael Petraccelli, Gene Putman, Daniel Rifkin, Jeanne
Shrene, D. Perkins-Smith, Jeb Sloon, Hunter Sydnor, Jeremy Tamsen, Chris
Taylor, Les Townsend, Bruce Tonilas, Mary Tunberg, Gaspar Verdugo,
Robert Watkins, Scott Weeks, Katrina Wert.

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 7:11 p.m.

Chaired by Director Brohl
Committee Chair Brohl thanked the Chair for moving this committee meeting ahead of the
schedule but she thinks the discussion around DBE from the special Board meeting dovetails into
this committee meeting.
I.

WIN Pilot and Program Development Timeline
Pilot Phase - Carla Perez kicked of the discussion with an overview of what their goal was
in the WIN program and turns the discussion over to Kenn Hardin.
Kenn Hardin gives an overview of the “Pilot Program” and announced they will enter the
project in September 2011 with plans as follows:
 Entry Process – On line request format
 Assessment Process - The CRC (career ready Colorado) current guidelines will be
followed and a career inventory assessment will be conducted for all applicants.
 Training and Referrals – Once a path is chosen for a candidate based on the
assessments an achievement matrix is set up tracking progress. Examples were
given.
Director Anderson asked about candidate requirements.
Kenn Hardin spoke to the guidelines of the candidates and what will be done to include all
regions.
Director McMullen asked about who was employable and how the overall process would
determine who was trained.
Kenn Hardin said state employment guidelines would be followed based on residency and
other requirements.
Director Malpiede asked about the hiring of previously incarcerated individuals.
Kenn Harden explained that per the FTA requirements, etc, there will be some areas that
are off limit to ex offenders (ex: airports, rail)
2012 – 2016 Full Programs –
Kenn Hardin gave an overview of the application partnership locations including:
 Community Based Organizations including churches, community centers.
 Community and technical schools
 Apprentice programs
 Trade associations
 Small businesses
Kenn Hardin explained that most of the zip codes in the region would be utilized with an
particular emphasis being put on the lower income areas targeting a higher population of
candidates.
Katrina Wert, CCD, reviewed the outline of assessment, training and development, how it

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on March 8, 2011
Page 3 of 4

would be implemented and how mentoring candidates towards their assessed aptitudes
would help in productive and successful outcomes. She talked in terms of three buckets of
readiness:
 Workplace readiness
 Skills Upgrade
 Advanced Skills
Katrina also shared there are two committees with an active level of involvement in the
planning process: Recruitment and Outreach and Placement and Corporate Outreach.
Director Cohen inquired what you do with applicants that do not meet the minimum
requirements. Katrina Wert explained all who fit the criteria would be mentored and fit into
the program regardless of remedial education needed as long as they fit the program
criteria.
Carla Perez mentioned utilizing the partnerships they would include all levels of participants.
II.

WIN Training Provider Network
A discussion of the WIN subcommittees and partnerships was touched on by Kenn Hardin
and Katrina Wert. Kenn emphasized that 85% of current partners provide training that
results in industry-endorsed certification or endorsed degrees from accredited institutions.

III.

Grants



FTA Innovative Transit Workforce Development Program
Career Pathways Innovation Fund Grants Program

Director Deadwyler asked how long it would take to get candidates up to speed to work
the upcoming projects. Kenn Hardin explained they want to be flexible but many of the
projects needing help now will utilize the “ready for work” participants in the program.
Candidates who need additional training will be utilized as they complete training and
reminded us the projects are long term and program would be as flexible as possible.
Director Deadwyler expressed concern that a mechanism exist to make sure that people
who may need more training are considered equally in the process.
Director Tobiassen asked if a stipend or incentive to help the candidates was in place. Phil
Washington indicated there are no stipends. They will utilize the network providers and
other partners to provide access to resources that are needed.
General Manager Washington indicated that when he and the Board members go to
Washington next week, they will have a package to present to the FTA. The significance
of the WIN program cannot be understated. When the FTA comes out with their
requirements for the new start programs, we believe there will be metrics associated with
measuring the economic benefits of the new start program. The WIN program already has
metrics embedded in its program. They have identified zip codes where they plan to
baseline indicators like crime rate, unemployment, etc. RTD is also encouraging
developers to put WIN language in their programs. We are also inserting language in all
contracts for FasTracks going forward including the expending of the $305M for the
unfunded corridors.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on March 8, 2011
Page 4 of 4

At Chair Kemp’s request, General Manager Washington spoke regarding the meeting at the
Capital earlier in the day with the Speaker of the House and the Senate. This program is
resonating with them and they have expressed excitement over what the program has to
offer. The WIN program is receiving eminent importance on the local, state and federal
scene.
Director Malpiede thanked the team for their stellar work in the project as well as
recognizing DTP and Denver Community College for help in empowering the efforts being
implemented. Great collaboration.
Director Brohl thanked Kenn and Carla for answering all the questions and is excited to see
the project move forward. We may not have all the answers now but she is confident we
are moving in the right direction.
I. Other Matters
Chair Kemp made the announcement that Chair Brohl was a finalist for the Denver Women’s
Chamber of Commerce “Athena Award” and congratulated her on her achievement.
II. Adjourn - 7:50 PM
The meeting adjourned to the Operations and Customer Service Committee

