Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, April 7, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

6:31 PM
6:34 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:37 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District N

Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:31 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District J
Committee Chair

Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:30 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:33 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present

6:31 PM
6:32 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Remote
Present

6:32 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:30 PM

Director Solano participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Chuck Culig, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Doug
Gragg, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Adrian
Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Vivian
Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Henry
Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van
Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Michelle Brier, Mike Dino, Joni Goheen, Eugene
Howard, Bob Rizzuto, Roger Sherman, Cyndi Stovall, Joe Triplett,
Chris Waggett

B. Recommended Actions

• Station Naming for Boulder Junction and Boulder Transit Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and approve the proposed station names for the
RTD transit facilities in Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall
be designated as Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be
renamed as Downtown Boulder Station.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 21, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Nadine Lee, Project Manager for US36, explained that she was
presenting this recommended action because the US36 Bus
Rapid Transit Team needs to know the naming of the Boulder
stations in order to move forward with signage, schedules,
etc. She referenced the Boulder Transit Facility Names
presentation sent to the Directors prior to the Board meeting.
The presentation is available in the Planning and Development
Agenda Packet for April 7, 2015. The presentation included a
rationale for the chosen names, RTD’s naming policy, example
of signage, and an overview of the Boulder Junction Transit
Village Area Plan. Nadine Lee mentioned that she had received
communication from the City of Boulder that morning

indicating that their preference was to name the “Boulder
Junction Station” the “Boulder Junction at Depot Square
Station” or “Depot Square at Boulder Junction”. Directors
Bagley and Anderson consented to adding the new proposed
name as an amendment. Committee Chair James declared
the amendment accepted as there were no objections.
Chair Sisk thanked the RTD Staff, Nadine Lee, and Scott Reed,
Assistant General Manager of Communications, for the
meeting in Boulder the night prior to the Planning and
Development Committee meeting. Chair Sisk said that the
name suggestion was this late because it was a long process
with the local stakeholders. The City of Boulder really
supports the suggested name. He pointed out that “Boulder
Junction at Depot Square Station” is consistent with the
naming conventions along the North Metro Line and
demonstrates shared values between the communities and
RTD.
Director Hoy wished he had an opportunity to talk to Chair
Sisk about this earlier. He asked if Depot Square is a
commercial entity. Marla Lien, General Counsel, explained
that Depot Square is the name of the development and the
condominium association RTD is part of. She asked Director
Hoy if he was thinking about naming rights. Director Hoy said
that was correct. He wondered if there could potentially be a
sign with the name Depot Square on the property. Marla Lien
replied that potentially since that is the name of the
condominium association. Director Hoy expressed his concern
that the conversation up to now has been that for a
commercial entity to have their name on an RTD facility they
must pay, (i.e., the naming rights process). Marla Lien
clarified that the Depot Square name also belongs to RTD as
the agency is part of the condominium declaration. Director
Hoy wondered if that was part of the reason to have RTD be
part of the condominium association. He said he was not
arguing against the proposal, he just wanted a point of
clarification. He apologized to Chair Sisk while saying he
would probably vote no at this time while he seeks more
information from staff and legal counsel.
Committee Chair James asked Nadine Lee if the City of
Boulder had proposed “Boulder Junction at Depot Square” or
“Depot Square at Boulder Junction”. Nadine replied that they
had suggested both and deferred to RTD to choose one. She
anticipates that naming the station “Boulder Junction at Depot

Square” would end up being colloquially shortened to “Boulder
Junction”.
Director Menten mentioned that on the West Corridor there
was confusion at the station platforms while looking for a
particular station on the fare machines. She mentioned that
people would look under “U” for “Union Station” but it would
appear under “D” for “Denver Union Station”. She said this is
also an issue with the “Lakewood at Wadsworth Station”
since most people were looking just for “Wadsworth”. She
wondered how to make it easier for the passengers. Rick
Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
explained that the machines have already been reprogramed so
that stations may be searched by the first letter of any part of
the name. He added that the system will be uploaded in that
manner at the new stations. He noted that Downtown
Littleton had the same problem. Rick Clarke said that if the
new fare structure is approved there would not be a need to
search for a specific station.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 3]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, James,
Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Larry Hoy, Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

• Option to Purchase Real Property at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (“Bus Barn”)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his
designee to negotiate and execute all documents necessary for the grant of
an option, and for the sale, including execution of any deeds and other
property conveyance documents for the purchase of the real property
located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (the “Bus Barn Property”).
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 21, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Kate Iverson, Manager of Transit Oriented-Development,
mentioned that in August, 2014, RTD received an unsolicited
proposal from D4 Urban, LLC (D4) for the Bus Barn site. RTD

issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) and received a proposal
from D4 and a letter of interest from the Colorado Department
of Transportation (CDOT). RTD staff met with the Directors
during Executive Session on March 3, 2015 and received
direction to move forward with negotiations with D4 for the
sale of the Bus Barn Property. She mentioned that staff
recommends to offer an option to purchase to expire on
December 21, 2017. This would give D4 the time necessary
to work with third parties for different types of approvals.
During this time, RTD could not enter into any agreement that
would give another party the right to purchase or lease any
portion of the Bus Barn Property. Kate Iverson added that the
purchase price would be established when the option is
exercised by a fair market value appraisal through an
independent party. D4 would pay RTD $10,000 in
consideration of RTD’s granting the option. She added that
the way the agreement is structured does not require any
specifics in terms of land use; it just requires D4 to buy it.
The City and County of Denver (Denver) would have to
approve any site plans.
Director Folska shared her excitement over the possibility of
D4 buying the property. She said that since D4 was able to
put a 60 inch pipe under the railroads they would have no
problem to putting in a connection over the railroads to the
Alameda light rail station.
Director Lubow said that she was in favor of the
recommended action. She expressed her concern over the
fact that the purchase price would be set upon appraisal. She
wondered who will do the appraisal and how any disputes
would be handled. Kate Iverson replied that staff is finalizing a
dispute resolution procedure which will include best practices.
The procedure will be included in the agreement. Marla Lien
added that the appraisal will be done by a third party.
Director Lubow asked Kate Iverson to summarize why staff
was pursuing a sole source option for this agreement. Kate
Iverson answered that this is not a sole source process
because once the unsolicited proposal was received, an RFP
was issued. D4 submitted a proposal and CDOT submitted a
letter of interest. Staff pursued D4’s proposal. The
agreement being drafted addresses some of the concerns staff
had from D4’s original proposal. Kate Iverson added that a
sole source process would mean a determination prior to a
competitive process. Director Lubow reiterated that we are

dealing with 1 company after issuing a competitive process.
Committee Chair James stated that the RFP exposed the
property to the market and the result was the original D4
proposal.
Director Bagley thanked Director James for the concise
explanation as he was about to state the same.
Director Bagley pointed out that the aerial photos included in
the packet are not updated since they do not include the
current roadway construction for the I-25 exit. He pointed the
Directors to the survey plans included in the packet for an
updated view of the area. He recalled that 6 years ago when
he was first elected as a Director with Director James and
Director Tobiassen there were plans for this property with
another entity but those plans fell through. He noted that this
means work on this property will probably go beyond 8 years.
Director Bagley added that RTD was lucky to not have done
anything with the property back then because of all the
drainage work done in the area over the years.
Director Francone asked if the agreement was strictly a right
to purchase and not develop. Kate Iverson said that once they
close on the property they can start developing. Marla Lien
added the only thing D4 would have the ability to do on the
property during the agreement time would be inspections.
Director Francone asked if staff foresees any potential use of
the property that may be inconsistent with the Alameda light
rail station. Kate Iverson said that she did not think so. She
added that the property has been rezoned by Denver and any
use of the property needs to be approved by the City Planning
Department.
Chair Sisk said that he is in support of the recommended
action. He noted that the devil is in the details once the
option is exercised. Kate Iverson said that staff understood
his concern.
Chair Sisk wondered if D4 would be able to assign the
property to a different entity. Kate Iverson replied that D4 has
the right to form an entity for the purpose of development but
the entity has to be completely controlled by D4. Marla Lien
added that the process described by Kate Iverson is a common
process for financing and development purposes in order to
minimize liability for the parent company.

Director Solano was not available when called on by
Committee Chair James for a comment.
Committee Chair James said he was glad to see this process
in the works. He noted he has been watching the property
over the years. He is proud of RTD staff for doing the work to
get it moved and glad that a developer was interested in the
property.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Committee Vice-Chair
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
AWAY:
Paul Solano
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

D. Next Meeting Date - May 12, 2015
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned to the Government Relations Committee at 7:10
p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

