Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

AGENDA
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, April 7, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Station Naming for Boulder Junction and Boulder Transit Center
• Option to Purchase Real Property at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (“Bus Barn”)
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - May 12, 2015
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters

 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

April 1, 2015

Subject:

Station Naming for Boulder Junction and
Boulder Transit Center

Assistant

Date: April 1, 2015
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors accept
and approve the proposed station names for the RTD transit facilities in Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall be designated as
Boulder Junction Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be renamed as Downtown
Boulder Station.
BACKGROUND
Although the U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project does not officially have any infrastructure
improvements west of U.S. 36•Table Mesa Station, the new BRT service starting in January 2016 has
triggered a need to name the Boulder end-of-line stations in advance of the production of public
information and marketing campaigns and collateral materials. In addition, RTD will need adequate lead
time to fabricate and install any replacement signage at these station locations prior to opening day.
RTD has not officially named the new transit facility currently under construction at Boulder Junction at
Depot Square near 33rd/Pearl in Boulder. In addition, the City of Boulder has indicated a desire to rename
the Boulder Transit Center.
Boulder Junction
The end-of-line bus facility located at Boulder Junction has yet to be officially named. “Boulder Junction”
is the name of the mixed-use, pedestrian-oriented neighborhood in Boulder (30th and Pearl Street) while
“Depot Square” is the name of the development over RTD’s underground bus facility. The city of Boulder
refers to the development housing the RTD transit facility as “Boulder Junction at Depot Square.”
If RTD follows its typical station-naming convention, the transit facility would be named based on its
geographic location, 33rd and Pearl. However, both RTD and the city of Boulder commonly refer to the
location as “Boulder Junction”. The city of Boulder and the Boulder Junction Development Board have
officially named the development “Boulder Junction at Depot Square”, and the city has informally
requested that RTD use the full development name for the station. RTD staff is currently awaiting a
formal letter from the city of Boulder to this effect.
RTD staff does not recommend the name requested by the city of Boulder. The longer name is far too
complicated and would have to be shortened for use on signs and collateral materials. It is also
extremely likely that RTD patrons will more commonly refer to the station as “Boulder Junction” without
the “at Depot Square” part of the name.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Boulder Transit Center
The Boulder Transit Center located at 14th and Walnut Street has been in place for many years as the
main RTD transit hub in Boulder. With the Boulder Junction Station coming online as another major
transit hub, the city of Boulder wishes to change the name of this facility to further distinguish it from
the station at Boulder Junction. For this reason, the city of Boulder requests that RTD rename the
Boulder Transit Center to “Downtown Boulder Station.” The proposed name will help customers identify
the location of this station within the city of Boulder. RTD staff has no objections to this request and
agrees that such a change, if desired by all parties, should be implemented with the BRT opening.
Staff Recommendation: Boulder Junction—station name determination
Staff recommends the station name to be designated as Boulder Junction Station for the following
reasons:



Boulder Junction is a known entity in Boulder and it designates where the bus facility is.
Boulder Junction Station is simpler, shorter and more appropriate for signage, schedules, maps,
etc. than Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station.

Staff Recommendation: Boulder Transit Center—name change request
Staff recommends the station name be changed to Downtown Boulder Station for the following reasons:



This name is supported by the city of Boulder
It reflects where the station is located within the city of Boulder.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD has already established a project budget in the FasTracks program to place new signage at the
stations for the implementation of the new BRT service. Any changes to the station naming will be
incorporated into this effort. It is expected that all of the recommended changes can be done within the
established budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors accept and approve the proposed station names for the RTD transit
facilities in Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall be designated as
Boulder Junction Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be renamed as Downtown
Boulder Station.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Instead, conduct a more extensive naming exercise to
identify an alternate name for the station at Boulder Junction at Depot Square. This is not
recommended because it is a time consuming task and the public is very likely to refer to it by the
recommended name anyway. For the Boulder Transit Center, not accepting the Recommended Action
would result in leaving the name as it is today, “Boulder Transit Center.” This is not recommended as
the city of Boulder has requested the name of the downtown station to be changed.

Prepared by:
Nadine Lee, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

April 2, 2015

Subject:

Option to Purchase Real Property at 350 S.
Santa Fe Drive (“Bus Barn”)

Assistant

Date: April 2, 2015
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary for the grant of an option, and for the sale, including execution of any deeds and other
property conveyance documents for the purchase of the real property located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive
(the “Bus Barn Property”).
BACKGROUND
This action addresses the 2015 goal of fiscal sustainability in leveraging RTD assets. The Property
originally housed a large bus maintenance facility (hence “Bus Barn”) that was used by RTD until District
Shops opened in the late 1980’s. The building was demolished by RTD in the 1990’s and the Property is
currently vacant. An aerial showing the Property is attached as Exhibit A. RTD has no current or future
transit use for the Bus Barn Property.
In August 2014, RTD received an unsolicited development proposal from D4 Urban, LLC (“D4”) for the
development of the Bus Barn Property. RTD staff determined that the proposal had technical merit, and
in October 2014 received direction from the Board of Directors to issue a solicitation for an RFP for
development proposals for the Bus Barn Property.
RTD staff issued RFP 14DH068 on November 12, 2014 and received one response from D4, and one
letter of interest from the Colorado Department of Transportation.
RTD Staff, a City and County of Denver (“City”) designee, and a Denver Urban Renewal Authority
(“DURA”) designee reviewed D4’s response and determined that the proposal was nonresponsive based
on the criteria given in the RFP. RTD staff met with the Board of Directors in Executive Session on
March 3, 2015, and received direction to move forward with negotiations with D4 for the sale of the
Bus Barn Property under terms different than that proposed by D4.
DISCUSSION
This action would give the General Manager and CEO authority to grant D4 an option to purchase the
Bus Barn Property. The terms of the option would be as follows:


The option would expire on December 31, 2017, meaning D4 could exercise the option and
purchase the Bus Barn Property at any time prior to December 31, 2017.



RTD could not enter into any agreement that would give another party the right to purchase or
lease any portion of the Bus Barn Property during the option term, and cannot offer the property
for sale during that time frame.



The purchase price for the Property will be established when the option is exercised, and would be
the fair market value of the Bus Barn Property based upon an appraisal.

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.2



D4 will pay RTD $10,000 in consideration of RTD’s granting the option.



There would be no preconditions to closing other than delivery of the purchase price (which will be
established when the option is exercised).



Once the option is granted, no subsequent Board action is required during the option term.

The Bus Barn Property is currently accessible predominantly by car from South Santa Fe Drive. The
ultimate development use will be determined by whether the Bus Barn Property remains accessible only
by car, or can be connected directly to Alameda Station via a pedestrian bridge. Construction of a direct
pedestrian bridge connection will require (i) securing approvals from Union Pacific (UP) and Burlington
Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) railroads, RTD and the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) to cross the existing
Consolidated Main Line freight rail and RTD light rail tracks, and (ii) securing sufficient financing, likely
from public financing sources, to construct, own and maintain the bridge.
By granting D4 an option, RTD is allowing the development proposer time to determine if they can
negotiate and secure the necessary approvals and financing to build a pedestrian bridge from third
parties, including UP, BNSF, and the PUC which must approve the rail crossing, as well as from the City
which will likely own the bridge, and DURA which will determine if public financing would be available
for its construction.
Ultimately however, the decision whether or not to build a bridge is up to D4. D4 may elect during the
Option period to move forward with a re-development of the Property that does not include a bridge,
subject to securing necessary City site plan approvals. If D4 does elect to build the bridge, then D4 (not
RTD) will have to obtain the necessary approvals and financing, but such requirements for the bridge will
not be preconditions to D4 exercising the option or to closing on the Bus Barn Property.
At any time during the Option period, D4 may give notice to RTD of its intent to exercise the Option, at
which point the Parties will negotiate a purchase price based on a fair market value appraisal of the
Property at that time. D4 could also elect to terminate its Option, or could fail to exercise it within the
Option period. If D4 terminates or fails to exercise the Option during the Option period, any subsequent
decisions about the Property, including an extension of the Option period would come back to the Board
for approval.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
If the Option is exercised, RTD will receive the amount determined by a fair market value appraisal of the
property.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his
designee to negotiate and execute all documents necessary for the grant of an option, and for the
sale, including execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents for the
purchase of the real property located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (the “Bus Barn Property”).
2. Do not authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary for the conveyance of the option. RTD does not have any current or future transit need
for the Bus Barn Property. The Option allows the development proposer to determine if a transit
supportive use is viable, and if exercised, RTD will receive the fair market value of the property as
determined by appraisal. A subsequent RFP is unlikely to be successful, and an Option
agreement is the best structure to allow the development proposer to secure approvals needed
from third parties.

Packet Pg. 7

1.B.2
ATTACHMENTS:


040715_BoardReport_Exhibit A_aerial



040715_BoardReport_Exhibit B_ALTAsurvey

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, TOD & Planning Coordination
Kate Iverson, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 040715_BoardReport_Exhibit A_aerial (2305 : "Bus Barn" Real Property

1.B.2.a

“Bus Barn” Property Aerial

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: 040715_BoardReport_Exhibit B_ALTAsurvey (2305 : "Bus Barn" Real Property Purchase)

1.B.2.b

Packet Pg. 10

