Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 28, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 29, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 28, 2011
at 5:35 p.m. in Rooms R,T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Pro Tem Tayer; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Brohl,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Riley, and Tobiassen.
Chair Kemp

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Jesse Carter, Rick
Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Libby Cox, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Adriana Gibson, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod,
Anthony Menendez, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla
Perez, Scott Reed, Scott Roberts, Jeanette Scarpino, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Lisa Trujillo, Christina Tubb, Bill Van
Meter, Michael Washington, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Celina Benevidez – Celina Inc., Chris Cruz – Celina Inc.,
Dennis Donald – Osprey Group, Dave Erb – CAC, Dwight
Cunningham – AIS, Stan Grenek – ATU 1001, Mike Fitzgerald,
Randy Harrison, Mark Imhoff – CDOT, John Sackett, Patty
Silverstein – DRP, Chris Taylor – Spectrum AV, Bob Watkins,
and Dee Wisor.
****

I. Call To Order
Chair Pro Tem Tayer called the Study Session meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.
II. Fiscal Sustainability Report
Chair Pro Tem Tayer thanked the RTD Board for the foresight to recognize
that we no longer can afford short term fixes to our budget. The budget
should be looked at more holistically, and we should pursue opportunities to
address our long term fiscal challenges, even if they will take longer periods to
implement. The Task Force was formed to bring together the wealth of talent
from staff and the Board with expert counsel from outside of our organization,
and the charge specifically from the Board was to look at and to provide a
written report regarding long term opportunities for addressing the fiscal

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 28, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 2 of 5
sustainability of RTD including expense reduction and revenue enhancement
opportunities. Tonight, we have John Sackett, Patty Silverstein, Bob Watkins,
and Randy Harrison to present the Task Force findings to the Board.
Patty Silverstein indicated that this Task Force is a very diverse group of
dedicated individuals, some members were familiar with transit and others
were not, but the Task Force tried to start off with a clean slate with sharing
of information. The group tired to identify ways to increase revenue or reduce
expenses. Key findings were:
 Having an efficient and effective transportation system here in the
metro Denver community is imperative to our future economic health.
 RTD is an efficiently operated organization; however a combination of
policies and strategies must be implemented to achieve long term
fiscal sustainability.
 The challenges are that funding models for transit agencies
nationwide illustrate the transit paradox: the industry is sensitive to
economic conditions, the recession exacerbated the challenge for all
U.S. transit agencies with 90 percent reporting flat or declining
revenue, and over half the agencies have addressed fiscal shortfalls
by increasing fares/cutting service, used reserves, transferred capital
funds to operations and deferred capital projects and even eliminated
positions.
 The major component of RTD’s revenue is sales and use tax. Sales
and use tax collections are typically between $210 million and $250
million annually. Over the past 10 years, sales and use tax collections
have averaged an annual growth rate of 1.7 percent but tax
collections are highly variable and this variable revenue stream
creates budgeting challenges, potentially leading to large swings in
revenue and transit service.
John Sackett explained that the Task Force Committee started with revenue,
and all options available to gather more revenue. Some of the suggestions
required collaboration with other entities and stakeholders, but that option
was not explored, and would require staff to investigate further. Ultimately,
for long term sustainability there will need to be expense reduction, revenue
enhancement and sound fiscal policies. The Task Force recommends a
formal Fund Balance Policy that defines purpose and appropriate level to
provide guidance in financial policies for how resources will be replenished.
Also, the Task Force recommends that RTD set aside $6 million annually to
fund asset replacement that will reduce debt service costs resulting in lower
interest expenses.
Bob Watkins noted that the Task Force reviewed revenue enhancement and
developed seven recommendations:
 Sales Tax Exemptions – pursue legislative action to make RTD’s sales
tax base consistent with the state.
 Tolling and Managed Lanes – RTD should continue to collaborate

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 28, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 3 of 5











actively as tolling and managed lanes issues are discussed and
decided upon in the metro area and funds generated by tolling could
be used for transit operations and highway maintenance.
Value Capture – Using three way partnerships, establish a regional
and local tax district with RTD, local governments, and developers.
These would place a modest mill levy on property within a specific
distance of light rail stations.
Self-Collect Sales Tax – some local governments like home rule
municipalities can chose whether to have the local sales tax collected
by the Department of Revenue or not, and based upon the experience
of some municipalities, tax revenues can increase by 10-25 percent
by changing from a State collected tax to a locally collected tax.
Fare Recovery Ratio – RTD’s fare recovery ratio is relatively low. It
could be desirable to improve the ratio of fare recovery to total
expenses and the ration could be improved by either reduced service
or fare increases through Board policy.
Charging for Parking – RTD should, at least fully recapture the cost of
providing parking. Charging might provide revenue over and above
the recapture cost, and privatizing parking could promote transitsupportive development. Charging could also help affect parking
demands, but legislation would be required to charge for in-district
parking within the first 24 hours, and this might be perceived as a
fare increase.
Naming Rights – Consider fees for naming or sponsoring facilities
such as stations or services such as rail lines. This would be a new
revenue stream that would not require election or legislative
permissions. Once a contract is in place, fees are relatively easy to
administer and collect.

Randy Harrison explained that the expense reduction strategies developed by
the Task Force yielded complex strategies but as many other agencies have
been confronted by revenue losses these types of strategies can be
implemented in enough time to be careful about who this effects and will
allow RTD to manage the public environment if service reductions or cuts
occur. A few main strategies are:
 Technology and Energy Innovation – Conduct a comprehensive
energy audit, use innovative technology to enhance efficiencies,
including the expanded use of solar technology.
 Service Optimization – Clarify service delivery strategy and optimize
service emphasizing ridership cost efficiency. Thoughtfully examine
two competing approaches by either providing service broadly
throughout the district or focus on serving the most riders and
depending on RTD’s service mission the criteria for evaluation routes
might change.
 Paratransit – most subsidized service that various alternatives my
help to reduce costs by increasing the use of cabs for access-a-ride
trips, reduce the number of paratransit service providers, and/or

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 28, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 4 of 5


improve the integration of various services.
Partnerships and Privatization – Privatization is a broad topic that can
include: privatizing routes, administrative functions, and operational
functions and while there is a potential to save money, some financial
savings can come at a non-financial cost of service quality.

Director Tayer noted that the Task Force has put together a wide array of
options, fiscal policies, expense reduction strategies, and revenue
enhancement opportunities but the work is just now beginning and it is up to
the organization and the Board to figure out which options fit RTD best.
Director McMullen noted one concern he had was that the union was not
involved in this process and wanted to make sure the union was apprised of
this information and was involved at an early stage if any Task Force
recommendations were implemented.
Director Brohl mentioned from a practical perspective it is important to look
to see what the additional cost savings and revenue generation is, but what
is the cost of getting to that point.
Director Tobiassen added that he would expand on Director McMullen’s
recommendation to involve all employees and added that while change is
tough and trying to find efficiencies can be problematic, it is worth looking
into.
III. SBP Options
Terry Howerter explained that the SBP Options were being presented to the
Board for their consideration. The Board will once again have a tough
decision to make this year as we have a deficit to discuss and to resolve.
Mr. Howerter defined Fiscal Sustainability as the extent to which patterns of
Government spending do not undermine the capability of the Government to
continue to spend to achieve its public purposes and what this means for
RTD is that:
 Revenue plus reserves are greater than or equal to expenditures
 Maintain State of Good Repair – costs to maintain our assets
 Provide for a capital replacement fund
 Provide adequate employee benefits
 Meet debt service requirements
 Maintain an adequate fund balance for future economic downturns
Terry Howerter further explained that RTD must match the costs of services
to available resources, covering shortfall in revenue by using previously set
aside reserves is not sustainable, the major component of RTD’s revenue is
sales and use tax which is highly variable, and best practices would require
available funds of 3 months of operating expenses equaling $90 million
dollars.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday June 28, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 5 of 5
Terry Howerter asked the Board to email their SBP Options recommendations
to him by ______
IV. Operations Optimization – Part I
Bruce Abel noted that RTD’s mission statement is to meet our constituent’s
present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost effective service throughout the district. This
is easy for us to define how we look at safe, clean, reliable, courteous and
accessible service, but far more ambiguous as to how we define cost effective
service throughout the district. Policy issues relative to what is the level of
service, and policy issues representing how we allocate resources or distribute
services once we have established the level of service that we can afford can
mean distributing service to maximize ridership or distribute service to
maximize geographic coverage.
V. Other Matters
Bruce Daly noted that Chair Kemp and Director Tayer attended the Transit
Initiative Conference and would like to know what the Directors learned on the
trip. Director Tayer indicated that information would be coming back with
public education effort that we are moving forward with and lessons learned
were incredibly valuable.
General Manager Washington updated the Board on the Bus and Pedestrian
accident that occurred yesterday noting that the pedestrian is still in the
hospital and preliminary investigations are still under way. The pedestrian was
not a passenger, so we are not sure where he came from.
General Manager Washington added that documents have been received from
Alameda LLC and we will be bringing those documents along with
recommendations from staff to the Planning and Development meeting next
week.
VI. Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 8:55 p.m.

