Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 27, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Gene Barnett – Bus Operator – 22 years
Matt Vigil – Facilities Maintenance Mechanic – 20 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 15, 2014

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of the 2014 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee the Board of Directors approve
the 2014 Annual Program Evaluation (APE). The APE provides a comprehensive financial
blueprint for all FasTracks capital projects completed, underway or planned through the
year 2019.
B.

Approval of August 2014 Service Change

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2014 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
C.

Longmont fare Buy Up Program

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with
Boulder County to allow the County to buy up fares on all four of the Longmont local fixed
route services, herein referenced as “The 300 series.” Specifically the 300 series are
routes 323, 324, 326 and 327 and complementary Access-a-Ride services for an initial
period of 6 months with options to extend the buy-up period up to two years.
D.

Acceptance of 2013 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2013 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.

XII.

Recommended Action
E.
Recommendation for Contract Award to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for the
FasTracks Construction Management Support Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to the Triunity-Hill Joint
Venture, the most qualified firm based on the application of the evaluation criteria, in the
amount not to exceed $15,150,000 for Construction Management Support Consulting
work for FasTracks for the years 2014-2020. Funds for the award are contained in the
RTD FasTracks capital budget for each project to which they will be assigned.

F.

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for state legislative liaison
services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option
(June 30, 2014 through June 29, 2015) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of
$112,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
G.
Resolution No.___, Series of 2014 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of
Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Certificates of Participation, Series 2014A.
H.

XIII.

Resolution No. ____, Series of 2014 Amended RTD Board Operating Guidelines

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

