1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, February 4, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 7:52 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:53 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Absent

7:52 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:52 PM
7:53 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Committee Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Absent
Present

7:51 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:52 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:52 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:52 PM

7:52 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:52 PM
7:52 PM

Directors Anderson, Deadwyler, Lasater and Rivera-Malpiede had left early.
Staff Present:

Joe Christie, Rick Clarke, Jeff Cluphf, Melissa Dubinsky, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Cory Granrud, Cheryl
Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Deborah Menendez-Wilson, Brian
Middleton, Andy Mutz, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Steve
Reilly, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Phil Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Zach Alexander, Greg Amparano, Michelle Brier, Donna Burnett, B.
Cha Cha Cruz, Marion Combs, Marshall Crawford, Aaron Epstein,
Joni Goheen, Scott Gorsky, Doug Gragg, Beverly Grant, Sherman
Hamilton, Chanda Hinton, Nettie Moore, Nicholas Muller, Farah Peek,
Laura Rinker, Karina Sartiaguin, Roger Sherman, Joshua Solis, Maggie
Stephenson, Cyndi Stovall, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Monte
Whaley, Bob Wilson, Hugh Wilson, Christina Zazueta

B. Recommended Actions

• Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver (CCD) for a share of the 16th Street Maintenance (Blocks
1-13)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver (CCD) for the shared maintenance cost of the 13 block
portion of the 16 th Street Mall between Broadway and Market Street. This
IGA commits both RTD and CCD to share the cost of maintaining the
granite pavers, curbs and transition stones within the transitway.
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the February 18, 2014 Board
meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Senior Manager of Engineering, stated
that this in an IGA to get reimbursed by the City and County
of Denver (CCD) for work done on the 16th Street Mall. He
introduced Jeff Cluphf who manages the 16th Street Mall
Maintenance for RTD. Jeff Cluphf explained that this IGA

covers the granite portion of the 16th Street Mall, curb-to-curb.
He said that staff has been working with the CCD for several
years to try to negotiate some cost sharing for the
maintenance. This has resulted in the CCD agreeing to pay
30% of the maintenance costs up to $300K annually. He
noted that this is much better participation by the City than
we have had in the past.
Director Menten asked for further information as to why RTD
was responsible for maintenance. She noted the case RTD vs.
Weaver in 1987 when RTD took over the responsibility. Marla
Lien, General Counsel, explained that RTD contracted for the
creation of the Mall and got one of the first UMPTA grants to
fund it. There was a defect allegation against the architects in
which a settlement was reached requiring the architectural
firm to create a fund that would take care of the Mall
maintenance for 30 years. She said as part of the settlement
there was an agreement between RTD and CCD that RTD
would take care of the maintenance for the duration of the
fund; however, the fund is running out.
Director Lubow asked if staff has ever thought about getting
local businesses to share in the cost of the Free Mall Shuttle.
General Manager Washington stated that staff has thought of
that and they have not given up on the idea. He said that
staff has been asking that for a number of years. This IGA is
due to staff’s efforts to finally get CCD to contribute which is
a big step forward. He stated that staff would continue to
pursue funding from the Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP)
and local businesses. Henry Stopplecamp noted that the local
businesses are responsible for cleaning, snow removal,
sidewalks, trees, etc. He stated the only thing they do not
take care of is the actual pavers.
Chair Sisk asked if there are advertising revenues that can be
generated from this 13 block area of the mall. Henry
Stopplecamp said that because we only have the 10 foot area
the buses travel there really is not an advertising opportunity.
Marla Lien noted that the Mall Shuttle itself does generate
significant advertising dollars.
Director Menten wanted to confirm that we would not be
doing something like granite pavers on 18th and 19th as part of
the Free MetroRide. Henry Stopplecamp stated that we would
not be doing anything other than concrete and asphalt.

Committee Chair James noted that no one has suggested
anything different be put in on 18th and 19th. He asked staff
for more information on the capital improvement program that
is taking place on the 16th Street Mall. Jeff Cluphf explained
that this is a project with CCD, DDP and RTD. CCD and DDP
are paying 2/3. He said this will consist of bulb outs,
improved lighting, improved paving, etc. and will incorporate
some of the lessons learned from the 2011 pilot program.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Angie
Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Other Matters
General Manager Washington said that as the Board is aware, there was concern
the previous week that the Platte Bus Barn facility needed some work to shore up
some structural defects. He said that staff did do this on a temporary basis and are
working to fix it on a permanent basis. He stated that staff erred on the side of
safety and evacuated the buses and employees in the affected area. He thanked
staff for their responsiveness to the situation.
Director Daly asked where the extra buses were housed. General Manager
Washington said they were parked outside for a short time. Henry Stopplecamp
noted that the facility was back in service at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday so the normal
Monday service was out of that facility.
Director Daly asked if there were any conclusions as to what caused the structural
defects. Henry Stopplecamp stated that staff is working with an engineering firm
to conduct a thorough assessment of what caused the issue and how to best
permanently fix it.

D. Next Meeting Date - March 4, 2014
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:09 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters

 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

