1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

AGENDA
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, February 4, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver (CCD) for a share of the 16th Street Maintenance (Blocks
1-13)

C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - March 4, 2014
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 29, 2014

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 29, 2014

Board Meeting Date: February 4, 2014

Subject:

Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) with the City and County of Denver
(CCD) for a share of the 16th Street
Maintenance (Blocks 1-13)

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or designee, to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
with the City and County of Denver (CCD) for the shared maintenance cost of the 13 block portion
of the 16 th Street Mall between Broadway and Market Street. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD
to share the cost of maintaining the granite pavers, curbs and transition stones within the
transitway.
BACKGROUND
The 16 th Street Mall transitway, which is used by the RTD shuttle bus, has been maintained by RTD
since the early 1980’s. This does not include maintenance by RTD the adjacent walkways, center
medians or intersections. Recent annual maintenance costs have risen significantly. RTD has also,
over the last 30 plus years, procured granite replacement pavers on an as needed basis for only the
transitway. Maintenance has included repairing or replacing granite pavers, grouted joints, setting
bed and the concrete sub-slab. RTD had at one time participated in tree replacements. This phase of
maintenance was discontinued by RTD during the mid-2000’s.
DISCUSSION
At meetings with CCD staff since late 2012 and through 2013, it has been determined that a cost
share with CCD would be appropriate. The cost for maintaining the walkways, medians and trees
will be further coordinated between CCD and the Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP), and will not
include RTD. In the interest of providing a more equitable cost sharing the City and County of
Denver has supported a plan to split the cost of maintenance: 30% for CCD and 70% for RTD. The
estimated annual maximum maintenance cost for 2014 – 2016 is $950,000.00 per year for a total
maximum estimate of $2,850,000, which was used to establish the value of RTD’s current three year
option contract with Gallegos Masonry Construction. If this IGA is approved, CCD will reimburse RTD a
value of 30% of RTD’s annual expenditures, up to a maximum value of $300,000.00 annually.
RTD’s share will be the remaining 70% of the annual maintenance cost. RTD will take the lead in
providing design, construction management and cost control of this work, including sending invoices
to CCD. All direct procurement, construction and inspection costs, with the exception of
management expenses, will be reimbursable.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This IGA commits financial obligations by RTD and CCD. Implementation of this IGA implies future
financial commitments by RTD and CCD, subject to future RTD Board of Direc tors and Denver City
Council approvals. The resultant financial obligations are subject to each agency’s legally required
budgeting, authorization and appropriation process. Nothing in the IGA shall be construed as a
multiple fiscal year obligation by either party.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

1. CCD will reimburse RTD 30% of the actual maintenance cost, up to $300,000.00 annually.
2. RTD will provide the remaining 70%.
The current year’s maintenance value for RTD’s share is included in RTD’s approved 2014 budget.
The estimated construction workforce is ten employees.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to enter
into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (CCD) for the
shared maintenance cost of the 13 block portion of the 16 th Street Mall between Broadway and
Market Street. This IGA commits both RTD and CCD to share the cost of maintaining the granite
pavers, curbs and transition stones within the transitway.
2. Delay implementing the Recommended Action: This is not recommended because delaying the
implementation of the IGA would require that RTD renegotiate the IGA terms.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. If the IGA is not implemented, RTD would have to bear
the entire cost of the 16 th Street Mall transitway maintenance, and RTD would not receive CCD’s
share of the maintenance. The result would be a higher RTD maintenance cost.

Prepared by:
Jeff Cluphf, Manager
Stan Szabelak, Manager, Civil Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

