April 28, 2020
RTD Board Study Session
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everybody, and welcome to the study session for
Tuesday, April 28th. I'd like to call it to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight
Time.
I would respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and to set your ringers
to silent. Before I start the meeting officially, I would like to take a point of privilege to really
celebrate something very, very special amongst our colleagues at the Board of Directors at RTD.
In these times that are so really scary, and people are feeling really, really scared, I just want to
congratulate our First Vice Chair, Peggy Catlin, on becoming a first time grandparent on Saturday
morning, August Catlin. And I would ask First Vice Chair Catlin if she would just like to say a
few words.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, thank you very much. It's been an exciting time. He came a little bit early,
but we're anxious for this pandemic to ease a little bit so that we can make a trip out to Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania to meet him in person. So thank you, Chair, for those nice words.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Congratulations. Thank you. Please note that under the current
circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the
interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded, and the audio recordings along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
You can visit rtd-denver.com, and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of
Directors page.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings I would ask that you would please announce your name and wait for
me to call on you before proceeding to speak. We have a lot of people on the phone line with us
this evening, and speaking out of turn will only add to the confusion to the recording and to the
proceedings. Please note that at the appropriate time during our discussion later this evening, I will
call on each Director in turn, so please know that your time to speak will come. And if possible,
please hold your comments until that time.
At RTD, safety is our core value, and I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing.
Even though we've all heard and heeded this health advice time and time again since the beginning
of COVID-19 pandemic, this information bears repeating if we are to stay vigilant in the weeks
and the months to come. We aren't out of the woods just yet. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and
mouth with unwashed hands.
Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue into the trash. If you don't have a
tissue, cough or sneeze into the upper sleeve or the elbow and not into your hands. Stay home

when you're feeling sick, self-monitor for flu-like symptoms, and consult with your doctor's office
via phone as necessary.
Clean and disinfect it frequently touched surfaces both at work and at home. When soap and water
aren't available, use hand sanitizers with a concentration of at least 60% alcohol. Washing your
hands is still one of the most effective ways to prevent the spread of the virus. Be sure to lather
each and every part of your hand and scrub for at least 20 seconds, but 30 is better.
Wearing a mask has also been shown to reduce the spread of the virus. RTD patrons are encouraged
to wear masks while using transit. For RTD employees, please refer to the recent letter from our
chief safety officer, Mike Meader, regarding mask requirements on the topic of masks use in the
workplace. And finally, continue to limit close exposure to those outside of your household to the
greatest extent possible.
This includes practicing social distancing aboard buses, trains, and/or around stations, stops, and
platforms. That ends our safety briefing, and what I'd like to do this evening is to ask Mr. Ballard
to share with us a presentation from the staff regarding the agency's 2020-2021 tactical plan. This
plan will expand upon the strategic priorities established during our intensive full-day discussions
in the joint Board senior leadership team retreat that was held back in March of 2020, which
actually seems like a lifetime ago. So with that, Mr. Ballard, please proceed when you're ready.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, Madam Chair and Board Members. We're pleased to be here with
you this evening. I thought maybe I could take just a minute, Madam Chair, and update you and
the Board members on how we're doing with service out there and a bit of a COVID update if
that'd be all right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely. Thank you, sir.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, our ridership continues to hold at about 125,000 trips per day, which is
about 1/3 of a normal weekday, and that has been pretty much holding for the last couple of weeks.
We continue to monitor the three key aspects, as we have discussed with you before, to determine
ridership and to get our best handle on how it might change. And that is to continue to check daily
on how many passengers we have on our buses and trains, and look at the trends.
Secondly, we're watching for when retail returns and office-- excuse me, retail opens and the
offices start to come back. In a zoom conversation I had last week with the Downtown Denver
Partnership, a couple of the officials on the call indicated that they were going to bring back 50%
of their office as soon as they could. At the time of the call, that was going to be May 4th, but the
mayor has extended that a week, so it's probably been May 11th.
So they agreed to do an informal survey of their members to see if we can get an idea on when we
can expect those folks to be coming back. And then the third thing that we're monitoring and
managing is operator availability. As riders come back and as things start to open up, and we see
potential for reinstating some of the services, we want to make sure that we have enough operators
of the buses and the trains to actually staff the service that we are bringing back.

So those are really the three key things that we are monitoring. We continue to follow all of the
steps from the pandemic recovery matrix that you all received on Friday. That is an excellent job
that Mike Meader and his staff put together with a great deal of input from other staff, and looking
at other agencies.
But a lot of your questions that you might have about bringing employees back, bringing service
back are really outlined there with timelines for May, June, and beyond. And so that's a really
excellent document-- it's a dynamic document. We'll continue to update it, modify it, and adjust it
and follow it as time goes by.
Just the last mention on how we're doing on the personal protective equipment. It seems like things
are starting to loosen up a bit. We've received 5,000 N-95 masks today manufactured by the 3M
corporation. We received 8,000 face coverings, and we also received 6,500 Purell wipe packs,
which have 24 wipes in each that we'll be issuing to drivers and train operators to clean their
immediate areas on the buses and trains.
So it seems like that's starting to loosen up a bit, and the supply chain is starting to provide these
products. So that's pretty much where we are. We continue to have backup buses on the routes
where they need to be located so that when we get close to the number of passengers where social
distancing becomes a challenge, we can plug those buses in.
We have buses and we have drivers, and we started our retraining programs for those operators
who aren't needed for primary drivers or backup at this time. So the plan that we've been discussing
with you along appears to be operating well. So madam Chair, I just thought I'd give that update
before we get started.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: So shall we talk about the 2020 and 2021 goals?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely.
PAUL BALLARD: So let me just do an introduction, and then we can talk about how we want to
take this. I suspect we should probably cover it in small chunks, and then get comments and answer
questions. I think that'd be more helpful than just going through the whole thing and everybody
trying to remember their questions.
But if I may introduce, Madam Chair-- thinking back to March 7th when we had the retreat, it was
an interesting start for me. I'd been here for two weeks, and I really learned a great deal through
that day-long event. It was particularly helpful because I was able to spend several hours with the
Board members and get to know you and start to understand your own personal perspectives and
where you're coming from.
So throughout the day, Susan Spero and Michael Eber collected all the notes, the observations,
everything we've taped up on the wall, and they did a wonderful job of facilitating the retreat, and
really, I think consolidating and capturing all the input from the Board.

So as you all know, it is a great amount of data. And they put it all together, they transmitted it to
us in a timely fashion. The senior leadership team here received the data, reviewed it, started to
organize it. I asked Pauletta Tonilas and Heather McKillop to facilitate organizing the list and
putting it into a PowerPoint.
Four of the things I asked them to do was, as they organized this, to try to be as concise as possible,
to include all the points, but to try to eliminate duplication and to really focus on what the Board's
wishes were from that meeting. And one of the reasons I asked them to do that, because thinking
back to before I came here, one of the best things the Board did to help me get started was you
consolidated your thoughts in a two page letter which you sent to me. And that was more helpful
than pretty much anything else I had coming here, because in two pages you concisely conveyed
to me those issues that you wanted me to address and to work on.
And I have found throughout my career in business and in transportation that if you can be concise
and as brief as possible, it gives you a much better opportunity to achieve what you're trying to
achieve. An additional benefit of this approach, I think, is that this set of goals developed by the
Board, and which we work with you on, can also be a key tool in the recruitment of your permanent
General Manager and CEO. I think that the result of your efforts and our efforts to support you
will be very, very helpful to help bring that individual into that position.
So this set of goals is a product of the Board's work at the retreat. We have, I think, done a good
job of presenting it, and making it straightforward. And as a reminder, these are the goals.
Strategies are being, and will be, developed by the management team to achieve whatever goals
that we finally decide upon.
But we will be looking to the Board for suggestions on strategies. All of you have lots of great
ideas, and we would ask that you send them to us, and let us consider them as part of the strategy
to achieve these goals. So maybe I'll just stop there for a minute before I start going through the
PowerPoint and see if there might be any questions, observations, or anything else at this point.
Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. I'm going to go through alphabetically to
see if any of the Board members have any questions. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Not at this time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No question. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: None at this time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Only to note that there has been so much that has transpired that probably
changes 2020 and 2021 that may render some of this less relevant. I think we'll have to grapple
with that as we go forward. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Not at this time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Not right now. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis? appears
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I actually have an observation, and I do have a few
questions. In the pandemic recovery phase that general manager just mentioned, I noticed in the
facility, there isn't mention about how we might institute social distancing within our facilities.
And I know it's come up, and so I just wanted to bring that to your attention so I think it's going to
be really important as we start talking about ramping up services and having more folks out in our
city, that it's going to be important how we operationalize social distancing with our facility. And
it was just missing from the pandemic recovery phase.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Mr. Ballard, do you want to address that now, or
do you want to do that later?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, actually, for that specific question, I'd like to defer to Mike Meader.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course. Mr. Meader?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. This is Mike Meader, chief safety and security officer at RTD. There is
another column that speaks to the social distancing requirements. I think you saw that in terms of
having no close proximity, and maintaining six foot spacing at all times. There's also some
information in there about gathering.
I do appreciate your comment, Director Lewis, that we could certainly put some of that information
specifically into the facilities. We talk a little bit about keeping large gathering areas closed to
ensure we can do that. Those are the larger kind of lunchroom or some of those other common
areas where it's difficult to maintain that social distancing.
I think the most important thing we need to think about from a facilities perspective is the current
configuration of offices and cubicles, and those kinds of things, and really keep that in mind as we
start to bring people back to work eventually. Making sure that we bring them back in a very
thoughtful way so we can maintain that six foot spacing at all times, and also not put people in a
space where they might exceed any of the gathering limits. So I will certainly take a look at that
and maybe put some of those specific items in that facility section as well just to clarify. But really,
it's just keeping in mind what the social distancing requirements are, what our space is in each of

the facilities, and how we're going to ensure that we keep that social distancing maintained as
people start to come back into the buildings.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I think that makes sense. The reason I point it out is because it's
very general here. It says no more than 10 with strict social distancing. And I know that the policy
that you all enacted was the 15/30 and so it kind of conflicts with that.
And so I just thought it might be important to pull out if we're talking about social distancing
within our facilities or if we're talking about social distancing on our services. I think that makes
a difference. Otherwise, it's 10-- it's no more than 10 with strict social distancing on our services,
and I know that's not true as it is right now.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. The second observation I had-- it's an observation. I also have a
question about the decision criteria to put robust testing in place. That's one point, and then the
second is timely and effective contact tracing by public health agencies. And I just was curious if
you can tell me more about the robust testing, because I know that was one of the concerns that I
had expressed, and I haven't heard any updates, as well as the tracing. And I thought you all were
having trouble with the tracing with-- or being able to trace because of the capacity of public health
agencies.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. This is Mike Meader again, Chief Safety and Security Officer. The robust
testing piece is something that isn't completely defined as to what exactly that means. You'll notice
in phase two, it talks about having tests available for just about everyone with symptoms.
So the first one here, that the robust testing-- or the testing has increased dramatically over the
course of the last week in terms of the number of tests that are coming in. And right now, I know
talking with the city, they're working on kind of putting a plan together as to what that means,
maybe targeting some specific populations where they can test more of the high risk folks.
So one of the things that will be coming as far as general manager Ballard mentioned that this is
dynamic. There will be some additional information that really defines that a little bit better, but
an increase in testing is what we're looking for. Timely and effective contact tracing by public
health agencies-- there's a couple of reasons why this is important.
Number one, they may need to make sure if anyone tests positive to trace back and see who they
may have come in contact, what areas they may have been in, is there anyone else who may have
been exposed and may be susceptible to the COVID-19 virus as well. So that's one of the things
that takes place. The second part of the contact tracing piece is really looking at just overall the
ability to kind of move along in the phases. One of the things that's very important is being able to
trace any positive case back to a source.
So we can say there's a reason this person got it-- they came in contact with this person or they
were in this space. The reason that's important is because if we start to see an increase in cases
where they can't trace it back to a source, that could be a new stage of community spread, and

that's a concern that might create the need to step backwards in the recovery. So those are the two
main reasons that the contact tracing is very, very important. And they are trying to step up
resources right now, and use a little bit more software, some algorithms, and those kinds of things
to help them speed up that contact tracing issue right now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And I think you and I can both agree to the importance of it. And I
wasn't necessarily asking why it was important, because I think the priority testing, the PPE, and
specifically us tracking those who might have positive COVID-19 tests-- I think it's really
important. I'm just curious how that is happening within RTD with our staff. I guess that's what I
was trying to pull out. I know when we had spoke last time, the last time I asked about this, it was
that there was a capacity issue. But because it's showing up in the pandemic recovery plan, I was
just curious of how this is-- how you're actualizing that?
MIKE MEADER: Right. Right now, it's still-- we're reliant, and this is the direction of the CDC
on the health agencies to kind of do that tracing and ask those questions. A lot of it is protected
information, so we rely on the health agencies anytime someone tests positive to do those interview
questions, and kind of identify that information. We certainly are-- once we identify a person who
was positive working with the health agencies, and if there's any question about any-- or concerns
about exposure, any of those kinds of things, then we work very closely hand-in-hand with them
as well as our employees in internal divisions to make sure that we've covered all of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you, Mr. Meader.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's what I was trying to better understand-- what was the process when
someone tests positive for COVID-19, like what is our process within RTD to ensure that the folks
who would have been in close proximity to that person are-- potentially be exposed to that person,
how will we notify those folks.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, we do.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that include your remarks, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, nothing now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I'm sorry about the dog. Somebody was just picking something up.
[DOG BARKING]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

I know that wasn't professional. So are we really going into the pandemic matrix now at this point
or was that for after the meeting? I know Mr. Ballard had given an update. And I do have a
question, but I wasn't-- I want to just check before I ask.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard, I would like to answer that question, but the agenda
really is on the tactical plan. But we did start with the COVID update, so I would say if you have
any questions about it, I would ask now, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the only question I've got is where it's mentioned a couple of times to
evaluate the human resources required to meet the service needs. And considering bus-- the
represented employees are voting on what they want to do for runs, will that be impacted by this
evaluation if we need to scale-- keep scaled back service, will that affect anything?
MICHAEL FORD: So this is Michael Ford, COO, and we are having our drivers vote really as a
placeholder for the May service change right now. So if we need to make changes or we need to
be nimble to bring back service, we'll be prepared to do that. We will be able to respond much
quicker because the work has already been assigned, and we'll be able to move forward in a fairly
robust manner. Obviously, we're continuing to monitor the situation, but it will give us a chance
to be ready and able to move very quickly when we are able to make those determinations.
NATALIE MENTEN: And in the same way, if people are very reluctant to ride your service-- so
we don't make gains like some may hope for, we'll still be OK? We'll be able to just keep the
amount of service as justified by ridership?
MICHAEL FORD: Exactly. We want to make sure that we are able to meet the level of service
that we have and not deplete our resources. So we'll continue to match our resources with the
needs, and we're continuing to monitor the resources as well as the passenger counts on a day-today basis to make sure we're going to be able to meet the needs or run extra sections when they're
warranted as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, Mr. Ford. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing for me at this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Nothing for me at this time. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Hi. I don't have anything.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore?

TROY WHITMORE: I'm good. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I just have a comment. Director Menten addressed most of what I was
wondering. Just because there are services now that are unable to give away free rides because
people are just concerned about being exposed as Director Lewis was talking about. So I think I
got what I needed. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. As Chair, I just have one question,
and it really does fall in line with social distancing in our drivers' facilities where they hang out,
like in the lunch rooms and stuff. Can somebody please tell me how we are doing social distancing
so when you're driving and you come in for a break, or you're waiting for your shift to start, there
could be a lot of drivers in one small area. How are you addressing that social distancing there?
FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen, AGM bus operations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: We actually are-- of course, when we have people that are checking in, we're
asking them to stay six feet away from each other while they're checking in at the window. But we
are capping the drivers room too. We're not allowing more than is allowed inside of the area to be
there at any one time.
So for example, our extra Board operators, even if we don't have some immediate assignment for
them, we're putting them in a bus and putting them out in the field in a standby position rather than
allowing the drivers lounge to be overcrowded. We've also respaced some of the tables and seats
also so that they maintain six foot distances. We've also closed down a lot of the common
components, so pool, ping pong, things like that are not available right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Mr. Ballard, you can continue on the tactical
point.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, thank you, Madam Chair. I'll resume on packet page 5, which is the
dangers of COVID discussion. And little did we know back on March 7th when we started
discussing the coronavirus how this would just take over our lives. But we did have a pretty good
discussion, and we've tried to capture that and also provide some updates.
First of all, on communications, where we talk about providing daily communications to the Board,
what we are sending to the Board and staff regarding status. So we are sending daily email updates
to the Board, and to all employees, and union leadership. We're also sending out news releases
when we have big news to share or changing information that the public needs to know.
So we're really working on that. And this will be a good blueprint for future issues that might come
up, whether it's coronavirus, or bad weather, or whatever it is. But we continue to provide enhanced
employee communication and key messaging tools.

The third bullet point where it says provide regular digital communication with the public. We are
sending out email to our various customers and key stakeholders. We also send information about
the efforts that we are making in cooperating with Federal Transit Administration, social media,
and communications.
We're providing proactive updates to local and national organizations. From the safety perspective
on those bullet points, we provide updated procedures and guidance as changes occur. And I'll
refer you back to the matrix that you all received on Friday as a very dynamic tool for managing
the safety aspects of what we're doing.
Update the pandemic plan. As you know, there's been discussion about the pandemic plan which
is an overall plan that the district has had in effect for some time. That was just updated by Mike
Meader and his staff on April 15th. So we're keeping that document which is an overarching
document over the specifics and the documents like the matrix. It's an overall plan that guides the
agency, and we're keeping that updated, and we're following that.
We've already had questions on the social distancing-- that's a constant effort. I know that we've
had safety personnel walking through the facilities, reminding people to be sure to keep their
proper distance. We've done a significant remote working arrangement.
We're providing appropriate protective equipment for our employees. Obviously, we all know that
had a rough start, but as I mentioned earlier, we are seeming to get the material that we need.
Increased cleaning and disinfecting buses, trains, and work areas. This of course was one of the
very first significant steps that we took to make sure that we were doing those things.
We have very, very detailed steps for vehicle, for work areas, and we are following them diligently.
So the other two items under COVID-19 under operations, as you know, we implemented the
COVID-19 service change on April 19th. That was basically a 40% reduction in service.
Another issue we talked about a lot is the next bullet point, which is the mandated overtime. Well,
effectively, on April 19th, that for all intents and purposes came to an end. I'm not aware of any of
that happening now, and it'd be our goal to keep that at a minimum when service starts to be
restored. And hopefully, if we get enough staff on Board to operate the trains and buses, we can
continue to keep that limited.
The restoration of service as ridership and funding allows-- I've already covered that. Those are
the three key points that I talked about earlier. And then the last item under the COVID-19 section
has to do with financial-- monitoring fare revenue and sales and use tax revenue. Our chief
financial officer, Heather McKillop, is working diligently at that.
Monitoring fare revenue is quite easy right now. It's the same number every day-- it's 0. We have
developed and continue to update worst case and best case revenue scenarios, and we can certainly
talk about that now. She's got those very, very well developed. And then continue to identify any
funding sources that we can locate. We will continue to do that. So that's what we took from the
session on dealing with the pandemic, and some of what we've added to bring it up-to-date. So I'll
pause there if you wish, Madam Chair, or whatever your pleasure is.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. I'm wondering if Ms. McKillop could, in
fact, talk a little bit about the worst and best case revenue scenario she's been working on?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. This is Heather McKillop. So I think the last time I updated you
was probably around the beginning of April. And I made some additional adjustments to that, some
that I'm going to have to adjust again because things are changing as far as the stay-at-home orders.
But I've done a best case scenario which I've estimated currently now between the fare revenue
loss in sales and use tax. And this is just for 2020, because this will go into 2021. But for 2020,
around a $206 million loss, and that's assuming the stay-at-home order is lifted at the end of April,
which didn't happen. Assumes fare reinstated in mid-May, which now it doesn't look likely-- it's
probably more June.
And then spending comes back aggressively in May and stabilizes between May and December,
but never reaches above 90% of what we were originally anticipating by October. So best case
now probably needs to be updated because of the stay-at-home orders being extended and the fares
being extended. So that gets to kind of our mid-case scenario, which assumes that the stay at home
goes through mid-May, which is more realistic to what we're seeing now.
Fares resume in mid-May, which is probably not going to happen. And then spending comes back
gradually, and then starts to stabilize throughout the summer, but never reaches the numbers we
had anticipated for 2020. That's about a $233 million loss. And then the worst case which is looking
more probable is that the stay-at-home order is lifted, but not until the end of May, fare is resume
June 1st, and then spending comes back gradually starting in June, and starts to stabilize between
July and December, and we reach about 80% of our originally estimated fare and sales use tax
number.
And that's a worst case-- right now, it's $256. Now those are a little better than what I had presented
at the beginning of April when we talked. I gave you an update, and that's just because of going
back through and seeing what individual businesses have been allowed to stay open, which ones
have closed.
I'm still not expecting to get a Leeds forecast until the end of the third week in May. And then right
now, we're not probably going to see March sales tax. We originally should have seen that in May,
but that's not going to happen until June due to the state allowing businesses to have an extra month
to file March sales and use taxes. So they don't have to file those until May now.
So we're still working on looking at projects and programs where we can free up funds. So we've
pretty much completed that task. Then yesterday, all the departments were to submit reductions to
us, so we're evaluating those reductions right now.
Some of those are going to be, as a matter of course, just because we're offering less service, and
less people are using our facilities, and those type of things. But in other areas, we're going to have
to make specific reductions. And still looking at working on putting all that information together
for a presentation to the Board, I'll do another verbal update on the May 12th finance administration

committee. But we'll do a formal presentation of where we think we are at the June FA&A
committee meeting for the amended budget.
And that will be another opportunity to get input from the Board based on where we're
recommending reductions be taken from, and what some of our updated funding numbers are. And
then in July, we'll be asking for adoption of an amended budget. Now unlike most years, that
amended budget it's going to be a little fluid, so we'll probably have to do another amendment to
that budget sometime in the fall as we actually see sales and use tax collection coming in, because
I don't expect to see those April-May numbers until August and September. So that's my update
right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. I'm going to go ahead and ask the Board of
Directors if they have any questions of Ms. McKillop. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Not at this time. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do have a question. Heather, you did a good job of outlining that, but as we
look at funding sources, when you talk about administrative cuts from each department. And I was
wondering if there had been any consideration, and this is going to be a tough one to ask for any
furloughing or temporary reduction in workforce or payroll?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop, CFO. So yes, we have had those
conversations. I have done some calculations about what those savings would look like on a per
day or per hour basis. But until I get the rest of the information as far as what other reductions
we're able to take, we really haven't solidified what that could or may look like.
And Paul can jump in here if he doesn't agree, but I think what we've talked about is if we have to
do something, it might be a phased approach, because we don't know what we don't know. And so
we want to probably prepare for the worst, but then if things turn out better than what we
anticipated-- closer to the better case versus the worst case, then we may not have to take as many
days or something like that. So right now, I'm looking at putting-- and not only with just the
furlough potential, but also other cuts that we may be taking.
We may have to do a first round, and then if things get worse and worse, we may have to do a
second round, and keep those things in advance. But once we go into that second round, we're
really cutting into the ability to do kind of our day-to-day jobs. As you might recall, last year for
2020, we took a 20% administrative reduction already, so we're building on top-- I'm sorry, a 10%,
so we're building on top of that 10% reduction now.

So yes, that is on our radar. We have done calculations around it. But to tell you right now, I don't
have enough information to say what that could look like and may need to look like. But we'll have
that going forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Heather. And like I said, I did not really want to bring that up, but
I think that most businesses are having to take a look at that and I just didn't know if you had a
plan in place going forward. So you answered my question. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, if I may make a suggestion too about communication since Mr.
Ballard had covered that. I've sent in a whole host of questions and items, and I can just leave those
for a later conversation with the staff. But I do want to insert this one suggestion for the
communications plan, and then another one for the financial piece. Would that be all right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So for the communications plan for the COVID-19 piece here on packet
page 5, I wanted to suggest that we engage as well for our outreach the agencies that were involved
with the past program working group. Because we're working with a lot of different groups now
in terms of our ridership and so forth, and we can just expand our channel for communicating if
we can take advantage of that, and be able to reach more effectively all populations I would think.
So I wanted to suggest that. That was I thought a helpful idea that can lead to conversations offline.
The second thing is-- and again, this was something I sent in in writing, but had wanted to really
emphasize it. On packet page 6 under operation-- and this kind of piggybacks on what Peggy Catlin
was talking about. There is an item that was highlighted-- restoration of services ridership and
funding allows.
When we include that, there is sort of built into that bullet point an implicit policy that our approach
to the funding shortfall will be service reductions. We don't know to the extent there are other
conversations happening, such as Heather McKillop alluded to. Those are inherently policy issues,
and it's something that the Board needs to be involved in, in deciding the relative weights, and
trade-offs, and values that underlie those decisions. So I'd like to request that we have a workshop
or some means of engaging on that in May as we begin to get our hands around what we're likely
looking at for this year.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. Can I address that real quick-- that last comment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Ms. McKillop.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So that really was not the intent of the way that was written. That
conversation we've had with the Board in the past about 2021 would come through the mid-term
financial plan. I think the intent here was-- at least the direction that I have been given is to assume
that we need to be able to fund, at some point-- might be a month from now, might be three or four
months from now-- but the May service plan, and make the assumption that that would continue
throughout the rest of 2020. So from the purposes of what we're looking for as far as reductions,
it would be to be able to fund that plan going forward, and assume that the pandemic plan would
be a short-term.
Now it may not be, but we need to prepare for it to be just a short-term fix, and that we might be
able to start adding service sooner or later. So that was not the intent by saying that. I think the
bigger issues under operations-- and maybe we need to adjust that-- is what GM Ballard said was
really, its ridership and personnel. So the goal is to have the money there assuming, the ridership
comes back and we have the drivers so we don't get into another mandated situation. So I don't
know if we want to clarify that or not in this in this, but that was the intent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Cook, does that answer your question?
SHELLEY COOK: I still would request the workshop for, if nothing, the longer term questions.
But it sounds like we'll hit sooner than later, and the idea of us weighing in on the first principles.
The things that we want to help guide the decision making as we grapple with the funding
shortfalls. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, I do have some questions. Thank you. I had the same question, I
guess-- a similar question to what Director Cook was asking. That in the operations section, you
talk about reduction of mandated overtime by 90% after April 19th, 2020.
That doesn't change-- there's no end date to that. And obviously, that's what we want. We don't
want mandating back. And at the same time, we say restoration of services, ridership, and funding
allows, it sounds like maybe that language needs to be tweaked.
But when we passed the COVID-19 service plan, as I understood it, the decision to bring back
service had to do with ridership. And obviously, we have to have the operators there. But if the
decision is not just ridership-- if it's getting into mandating, and funding, and those sorts of things,
then I think it does raise questions that the Board should look at perhaps in the workshops that
Director Cook was suggesting, and then see what the trade-offs are and all of those things.
On the communication, I think this is a good plan in terms of daily communications. I've had some
concerns, and I just had a conversation with Mike Meader about this a little while ago. But I'll put
it in here to just because I think it's so important. And I think it did work out, it just needs to be

reiterated, and I know he said he was planning to. That the test is really, are we achieving the goal
of social distancing and safety for our drivers and our riders through our communications.
And I had concerns initially about the standard of 15 people maximum on the buses. And what I
think helped that was, as I talked to Mike and others, that the second prong was written so that
drivers could skip a stop if needed to protect social distancing. And my understanding is that many
of the drivers are seeing that as if they need to skip a stop to avoid hitting 15, then they should do
so.
But I think it's really important-- the difference is important, and I know that Mike understands
that difference and said he's going to be working on it. But I wanted to say it publicly too, that the
standards that our drivers should be following is is your bus not capable of protecting social
distancing, and that's the point at which we need to have them passing people up. And I just would
reiterate I guess the point that Director Catlin and others are making, that we have identified
funding sources.
We need to look at all the expenses and not just service as we come back. But what all the other
options are to meet our needs. I think that's all I have right now. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, chair. I have a few questions and one observation. so. Just having
the opportunity to read what other transit agencies are doing, and to Mr. Ballard's point about
providing suggestions, I appreciate that opportunity. And I hope we see this as an opportunity to
maybe try some things new.
And it makes me think about the system optimization plan. I know it's later on in the package, but
I was quite surprised to not see it here in operations because I think that-- I guess I'm trying to
understand how we move forward with that process during COVID, and it doesn't seem to be
addressing it in the operation space. And to me, it seems like that's a great place for it to be.
And so maybe to Director Cook's point about the workshop, which I do appreciate because I do
think there are principles that should guide us in our decision making. I think the Board should
have an opportunity to grapple with that. And so I would to like to request that. Also to Director
Catlin's point, one of the things that I was thinking about and one of the things that you all presented
to us, Heather, some time ago was a graph that showed us the number of employees that would
have been hired from a period of time from 2004 until 2019, particularly for FasTracks.
And we were able to see representative side and number of represented employees. And on the
representative-- the non-representative side, we saw a steady increase in the number of folks who
were hired for FasTracks projects, and we never see that number decline when we started to open
up projects. And when we talked about it, I think you said that a lot of those positions had been
reclassified.
And this might be an opportunity, as our FasTracks closes out, for us well look at our workforce
to ensure that the folks that are currently enrolled, that we need those folks in those roles to be

doing the things that they may have been doing in 2004 or 2005, and may not have the same work
in present time. And so that's one piece. Another thing that I saw to be missing-- I know we've
talked a bit about the CARES Act.
And I know these are just bullet points for identifying funding sources-- and I said this a few times
and probably sound like a broken record at this point, which is totally OK-- is we still haven't had
the opportunity to address the hazard pay, which I think the CARES and the funding provides us
the opportunity for our operators to do that. And then finally, I talked to some folks and one of the
things, I think a Director mentioned the public trust, and I think that's a really big piece, and maybe
it's not something that we have to call out in any of these bullets. But I think it's worth talking
about as we're thinking about restoration of services. I think it's important for us to talk about what
the stay-at-home orders and what behaviors those might have created, but how are people feeling
about getting back on our services, and what role are we actively playing to ensure that people feel
like our services are safe to return to. Those are it for me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Miss McKillop, would you like to respond to the
FasTracks piece?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure, I'd be glad to do that real quick. So I have received this question
previously, so we looked into it a little bit. So between 2016 and the present, we've reduced the
FasTracks personnel budget by 43 FTEs and that's just in that time frame. And then we have about
another 20 to 25 FTEs that, once we close out Eagle, SERE, and North Corridors that are project
related, that will also be going away.
I think the biggest decrease you'll see, though, is in the consulting costs. That's where we
supplemented a lot of our staff was through consultants. And so in 2016, I believe it is was about
$26, $27 million that we spent on FasTracks consulting. In 2019, that number is down to $13
million, and will continue to go down as we finish opening and closing out the remaining three
corridors. And I can share that information out to the whole Board if you'd like me to do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would. Thank you so much. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Yes, I have a couple of comments. I agree with the directors who are
suggesting and urging that we have a workshop on budget issues so that we could look at the
various areas of cuts that may be appropriate, and the Board could have input on this. Similarly, I
spoke with Heather this afternoon-- very interesting conversation-- and I think it would be good-I mean, the staff and Heather are working these issues, but we on the Board are not hearing that
much about it.
And in the past, periodically, Heather has submitted to us kind of narratives about what her
thinking is about what's important. And in addition to the workshop, I would hope that we could
get some more of those narratives to let us know actually what staff is thinking about these budget
issues. Like for instance, part of what I discovered today is that there is an assumption that we're
going to be able to make the May service procedures, and that that is what our budget is going to
be used for.

And we're not going to be stuck in the pandemic process that we're expecting in a month or two to
be changing, and that we will have the money for that. I didn't know that-- I really didn't understand
that that was the process, and I bet that there are other people who had similar confusion. So I was
just hoping that in addition to the workshop, we could get some weekly or some other regular
budget updates from the staff.
And one additional thing about the communication, which I thought was very good, it doesn't seem
to mention that we also are going to have regular communications with our stakeholders about
what we're doing. And my sense is that they would really appreciate that, and it would be useful
for us to spend some time thinking about how to do that well. That's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank, Director Lubow.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair, this is Pauletta Tonilas, assistant general manager of
communications. Director Lubow, thank you for that. And actually, we do consider our local and
regional stakeholders as such high level stakeholders, and we do periodically send out email
updates to elected officials, to key stakeholders, to our customer databases. We have a lot of
distribution lists-- lists in our system that we send out email communications to.
And every time there's something new, big, or emerging that we believe folks should know about,
we send out one of those email updates, and it literally goes out to thousands-- tens of thousands
of people. all local and state legislative officials, key stakeholders, chambers, TMOs, TMAs,
customers who signed up for these email updates are all on these email updates that we send out.
And so we are doing that when we have something major. We don't want to inundate people, so
we make sure that we don't overdo that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. All right, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So first, I will say that I have reached out to our operations
crew in a limited way about-- my hope would be that we would be using some of that COVID
CAREs money to look at capital investments. And what that means to me is that we look at
removing the cloth from our rail and bus fleets.
And if that is too much of a burden to bear, then at minimum, when we look at, as an example, the
electric fleet, the settlement money which we have planned to buy shuttles, buses, that we look at
installing plastic seats in our entire fleet. Because there is no way that I can believe that we are
actually having a sanitary system. And this goes before COVID.
This goes with sitting on pee seats, the amount of people who, on light rail, put their feet on the
upholstery. Between those combinations, I feel very strongly that there's just no way that we are
cleaning the system, and we are spending an extraordinary amount of time cleaning the system.
And with hard plastic seats, yes, there will be some trade-offs, and that might be, as an example
graffiti.

But I would say that for the average rider, they're going to find a sanitary seat to be perhaps more
appealing. And so I will mention that I think we haven't really had that discussion at RTD, but I
know other major transit agencies are already in the works to put in the plastic seats. When we
were asked maybe a month ago or a few weeks ago to submit all our questions about COVID, that
was my question about doing something like that.
And again, at very minimum, the upcoming fleet purchases that we've got coming that we do that.
And what staff's response has been, that really needs to be a directive from the Board of Directors
to make a decision. So I want to open up that discussion. And besides that point, then I would like
to say I am completely in support of the furlough, because what was mentioned was a very limited- not limited, but it was perhaps several days per employee over several weeks.
And I think as citizens are looking at the pain that they're suffering right now, and I think
government is acting in a very sheltered way, those big payroll checks keep coming in to them,
but the average citizen is being locked out of their jobs right now. And I don't know that the agency
is understanding that. So those are my comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik?
FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Mr. Ballard?
FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen, AGM and bus operations. I'd like to respond to the seat
comments, if you don't mind?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course.
FRED WORTHEN: So I've had experience with pretty much any kind of seat that you can think
of. Plastic, hardcover, vinyl, with cloth seats. And I will tell you that the cloth seats that we utilize
actually have a plastic barrier underneath. So whenever we do have a seat that is dirty, we actually
had the ability to take the seat out, pull it out of service, snap in another seat very quickly, and
send it out to the cleaners to be actually cleaned.
We also have a regular cleaning regimen also for deep cleaning of our systems, and we clean the
seats on a very regular basis. But with regard to things like hard seats, my experience has been
one, that they have been very difficult to maintain because not only are they vandalized with things
like markers, but people get glass cutters, they engrave in the seats. And once they have damaged
the fiberglass, you pretty much have to replace the entire bench, not just the portion of the seat
itself.
So there was significant effort with that. But the other component of it is hard plastic seats were
significantly unpopular with the riding public. We had numerous complaints in my past lives with
those types of seats. The plastic seats or vinyl covered seats were much the same to maintain as
the cloth seats.

They would get graffiti on them. The only problem we really had with plastic or vinyl seats is they
were slashed on a pretty regular basis, so we still found fairly high maintenance costs maintaining
those seats. So just a little bit of information from my past experience that will hopefully be helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Mr. Mihalik, do you have any questions
or comments?
KEN MIHALIK: Just one, and it's a follow-on to Director Menten. I think we should explore the- or at least continue the Furlough discussion. And that's all I have. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just following up on Ms. McKillop's
comments relative to the best mid case and worst case scenarios. The APTA legislative steering
committee had a very long meeting today wherein we discussed preparation of a submission to
Congress for additional emergency funding. And the basis of that request will be a forecasting
model that an econometric consultant is preparing based upon data that are being submitted to
APTA by all of the CEOs around the country.
So this kind of information that Heather has shared with us is critical to that analysis, because
rather than just going back to Congress for, quote, more money, we hope to be able to substantiate
revenue losses in each of the districts, and ask for funding to make up all or at least a good part of
that funding. So that information is very useful and very timely, and I appreciate it. And that's all
I had at this time, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I am fine with the COVID plan as presented. That's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thank you. One clarifying set of questions for Heather. Going back to
the worst case scenario, there was like three milestones that made up the basis for that, and I didn't
get them quite written down here. First one was assumption of an end of May stay-at-home order
being lifted. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. And then the other two milestones were what again, please?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So in addition to that, it would be that the fares resume on June 1st,
which is probably more likely. And then that spending would come back starting in June, and
increase, but stabilize between July and December. But we only reach about 80% of fare, and sales
and use tax by October 2020 that we were anticipating, and then it plateaus after that.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. That's what I needed. Thank you so much.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: No problem.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams, do you have
any comments or questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do. And Director Whitmore gave me a lead-in
talking about the projections that Heather's looking at. I know that we are all here dealing with the
day-to-day basis, and I really want to commend RTD who's acting in a much more nimble fashion
than we normally do, and we have all worked very hard to do that.
But we are here as a Board to look at the future of RTD. And since we are talking about
communication, I think that we ought to ask our staff to be looking now at how we're going to
convey to the public that we are going to start resuming fares. I think that's a much bigger jump
than anybody has looked at, and will affect how we go forward.
So I would like to see us, as a group, and the staff in the communications department start looking
at how we're going to put that information out. And to go all the way back around in a circle to
Director Cook's comments about the use of our partners from the past program working group, I
think there would be help there. I know that Mile High Connects sent a letter to us today saying
that they wanted to support us through this whole process, and that they had sent out a survey that
they were going to share with us. I appreciate them as one of the primary partners from the days
of the past program working group, as you yourself remember, Madam Chair. I just think that
that's something that we ought to be looking at now instead of later. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather-PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And Pauletta might just want to add to this, but we do have a fares
working group that is a standing working group that meets every week that has met every week
for years. And one of the things that we are talking about in that group, and our steering committee
that we have on Fridays is what that would look like. And then how that's parceled out goes out,
and then we bring it back to that group to have that conversation of how we would reinstate that.
So that is going on about what that would look like. We haven't discussed an exact date other than
for a lot of reasons, it would make a lot more sense from an operational standpoint to do it on the
first of the month because of how our passes are sold. So that work is going on, so I just wanted
to make sure people knew that we're just not hanging out, waiting for this to just happen. But we
are working on a plan of how to reverse what we implemented when we suspended the fares.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms-KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair--

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes-- is that you, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: It is me still, sadly. Thanks, Heather. I appreciate that, and I wasn't implying
that there wasn't any work done. I just wanted to look at the fact that May 1st is right around the
corner here. It's actually within this week.
And if we are going to implement a return to fares as of June 1st, that gives people just a month.
And if they're monthly pass holders, they need to look at all of that. So maybe we want to look at
some kind of a campaign that says we love you, but it's not going to be free forever or whatever?
I'm not in communications, and that's probably a good thing. But I just wanted us to start looking
forward as a Board, because that's what our job is to do. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Hello. This is Pauletta, AGM of communications, and I am in
communications. And I'm happy to report that my team has already developed a draft
communications plan on trying to get us back in action that we call "let's get the region moving."
And it involves many different things that we're going to have to communicate in various phases
as we move forward, not only about resuming fares, but as we start to increase service, as people
start to hop on board, how we inject a level of confidence in our riders that it is safe to come on
board RTD. And so we already have done that, and we'll continue to work with SLT, and the
Board, and others on what else we need to do to modify this plan as we move forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Pauletta. One of the things I would like to ask is if
you could share that plan with the Board just so we can start reading it and understanding what the
ideas are as we move forward? I know that there are several of us who do town hall meetings
weekly with other elected officials, and it would just be nice to start planting the seed so people
know what's coming down the pike. That's the first thing.
The second thing that I want to ask a question about is when will the RTD Board of Directors start
meeting again face to face? And Mr. Meader, I know you had a plan of action of timing. This
morning, Denver City Council announced that they are going to start meeting back in the chambers
I think it's May 11th. Whatever the Monday is after May 8th.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAULETTA TONILAS: It's May 18th, Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's the state legislature going back on the 18th, but city council
I think is going back on the 11th. What is your plan for us at RTD? Can anybody answer that
question?
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader, chief safety officer. I would say that any
kind of gathering of that sort is going to be dependent upon some of the things we have outlined
in the matrix. We're following a lot of the guidance from a decision criteria standpoint. A lot of
the municipalities around here are kind of making their own decisions based upon the data. I don't
fault any of them for those decisions.
Obviously, the state opened things back up, and a lot of the counties and cities decided to postpone
those. So I think it's important that we just do it when we believe it is safe to do it. We can maintain
some of those distancing and the gatherings requirements that are still in place despite the safer at
home orders as well. So I don't have a definitive date I can give you today, but there's a lot of
different things we need to consider before we make that decision.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. But are you thinking that maybe in July?
[LAUGHS]
MIKE MEADER: I'm sure hopeful by then. I hope it's certainly before then where we're able to
do that. But I would say in the immediate future in the next couple of weeks-- a few weeks, from
my perspective, I would say that's probably not something we should plan to do.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you sir. OK, Mr. Ballard, we're now on goal one, 2020.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. On the 2020 goals on the packet, I'll go back to page 7. And I'm
certainly not going to read all of these. I'll make a few comments on them, and then we can go to
Q&A and comments.
But on goal number one, what we've just been talking about is strengthening public
communications. And you can see that the goal, as we interpret it, is to improve communication
internally, utilize employee engagement, enhance the process to communicate and discuss
services. And the rider alert system there at the bottom, phase one of that was implemented in late
2019.
And right now, it allows us to send out a preset wording to alert the public about any service
changes, interruptions, et cetera. Phase two will allow us to push out alerts through text messaging
in addition to the current email alerts. So under transit equity goal two, I'll just hit a couple of the
highlights there.
We want to continue to educate about the LIFT program and the discount pass programs. Update
the unfunded quarter plan by 12/31/20 was one of the bigger items, I think, that was discussed at
the retreat. Convene monthly discussions with homeless groups to address barriers. Well, madam

Chair, you've already established that with I think the task force that you've just organized. So
thank you for getting us a head start on that one.
Create a plan to strengthen relationships with disability community. Well, we've got a lot of work
done on that. Zamy Silva, our Senior Manager of Civil Rights, has put together a very good
working plan that we're reviewing to do just that with both the advisory committee for people with
disabilities and the ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee. The last couple of bullet points have to
do with establishing an RTD internal equity working group, as well as establish an equity and
implicit bias training program for RTD staff, and conduct an initial round of trainings with critical
RTD staff by 12/31 of this year. We look forward to getting started on those.
Just briefly, goal three, enhance the current and future transportation methods. Analyze, calculate,
predict staff attrition, ensure adequate staffing. I've asked Bruce Abel, our Special Projects
Director, to take a look at all of our training programs, our retention rates, and give us some good
numbers on a calendar basis for the rest of the year as to when we will have proper staffing as we
bring back service, both bus and rail.
That new constraint system optimization plan, that's basically planning to provide what we can
afford and what we can pay for. Goal four, increase ridership, improve the rider experience. That
first bullet is a tough one-- that hand sanitizer dispensers.
While we're having increasing luck in getting hand sanitizer in large two or three gallon containers,
and we've had some good luck in getting the really small ones, the type of sanitized dispenser that
might be able to be put on our transportation vehicles is just not available. We just can't find them,
so I suspect that July 1 date is going to be very difficult.
There are also a number of challenges in doing that and maintaining them in the buses. It might be
better once we resume fare collection and frontal boarding. If we could do something, it would be
near the front of the bus. We think there'll be a lot of problems if it was in the back of the bus or
train.
We haven't solved that issue yet. We're working on it. Develop diverse ways to inform and guide
customers as they come back to riding. And as Pauletta, I think, has alluded, we're doing quite a
bit of work on that in how do we make people feel comfortable.
One of the treatments-- or one of the steps that we have started to implement is the new group of
buses that will be delivered later this year-- a group of 46 buses. We're having installed an air
treatment strategy. It's a device that filters out over 99% of airborne bacteria, mold, and viruses,
and it's a negative ion device that's installed in the HVAC system.
And the last transit system that I managed had those on 100% of the fleet. So in 2014 when the
Ebola issue came about, it was a very comforting strategy to inform our public that we had this
type of device on the buses. We don't have any on our buses now. We'll try them out on this next
small sub-fleet, but I think that that's going to be a key component not only here, but in transit
systems throughout the country on both buses and rail.

The last item under goal four is the N Line. And as I reported last week, we're making excellent
progress on having that ready to enter service in September. Construction is wrapping up. We'll
be accepting the right of way first week of May.
The railroad agreements, which are always the challenging steps to achieve, we've signed two of
the three. And Jenifer Ross-Amato tells me that number three is about to be signed. That's really
one component that's very difficult for us to exercise control over, but we have reached agreement
with the Denver transit partnership.
It's been a good but tough set of negotiations, but we're there. Training for the operating employees
is on schedule. And so as we sit here today, everything looks great for a September start up of the
North Line. The last goal under 2020 is to strengthen the safety and security.
And we've tried to quantify some of the measures. So for example, decrease the number of police
calls to the bus concourse in Denver Union Station by 50%. Well, this of course was developed on
March 7th before we really knew what we were getting into.
50% might be a bit aggressive, but just to give you the numbers for frame of reference, through
April, we've had 514 calls to Denver police for assistance. A 50% reduction we would hope to be
able to achieve, but it's going to be tough. We have achieved the changes in the code of ethics-code of conduct, I should say, that is giving us some additional tools to use judiciously. So we
think that that will assist.
We are actively working to try to get our police officers to be enabled to exercise their full authority
in Denver. They are fully trained and certified police officers. We think that when we achieve that,
we'll be able to reduce calls through the Denver PD. We'll be able to handle our own calls
completely.
We'd also be able to reduce the transit security ranks, and of course calls to the Denver PD. We
think we'll also be able to reduce some of the secondary employment of the full-time police officers
which is quite expensive. As you know, our police department only has 13 full-time officers, but
we feel that one opportunity to have an impact is to gradually increase that and reduce the money
that we're spending through contracting services.
The cyber security strategic plan that we're working on, we brought on Board a cybersecurity
expert named Tim Coogan. He has over 20 years of IT, cyber security, cyber risk management,
and he's taking the lead on developing that. He actually spent his last seven years as chief
information security officer out at Denver International Airport.
And the last bullet point, work with Denver DA and police chief. But I think the task force that
Board Chair has established will go a long way to addressing some of the issues listed in this bullet
point under goal five. So those are the 2020 goals as we have enumerated them based on the work
on March 7th. And we'd be happy to answer questions, receive comments at this point. Thank you,
madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. Director Broom, do you have any
questions or comments?
BOB BROOM: No, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks for the report Paul. Well done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I agree, Paul-- well done. But I do have just a couple of
things to consider. On packet-- I think it's packet page 7, it refers to the unfunded Corridor Plan,
and I would like us to consider rephrasing that to mean an updated, unfunded FasTracks plan since
I believe it's more than just the corridors. And then on page 8, goal number four, could we add a
consideration for expanding the fare pilot program on the N Line to another corridor to increase
ridership.
And then page 9, I think we probably ought to add something about the-- develop
recommendations to the revisions to the code of conduct, because we have the ad hoc committee
that the Chair convened for that purpose. And I think that would be good for the strength, and
safety, and security piece. That's all I have. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And again, I sent in a whole bunch of things. I wanted to say I'm
so glad to see the initiative that Pauletta has raised about strategizing, and coming up with how we
restore our ridership and trust in our system, and that sort of thing. So I really would like to see a
major effort in that, and it sounds like that's what she's putting up.
And then the second thing is I liked Peggy's idea about the pilot, and putting in a bullet note for
that. That's a great thought. And likewise, the code of conduct, I did want to suggest one item for
under the equity. When we were talking-- when we were listening at the hearing on Senate Bill
151, there were several times when senators would pose a question to people who were in
testimony about whether or not it would have helped to be in more direct contact as a committee
member with the Board.
And so I thought it wouldn't-- it just makes sense. Let's put something like that in motion, or at
least put a bullet about doing something like that under that goal number two. So thank you. That's
all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions at this time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I have a couple of comments. I think there's a lot of good
information and good ideas here. On goal number one, strength and transparent public
communications, the bullet point that says enhance process to communicate and discuss service
changes, I think bravo.
And I would say that's true with our riders and everyone else, but especially true of trying to move
that to an earlier phase with our local government partners, and work with them as we are
conceptualizing some of the service changes. And I'd like to actually see that called out in that
goals. And I think under goal number four, increase ridership, improve rider experience, it's taken
on a whole new meaning now-- if this was done in early March. And I agree.
I'm very happy to hear about Pauletta's work, and I'd like to see some of that reflected here. I think
we're going to have to do a lot of thinking about how we bring people back. And so this goal could
be-- the points underneath it could be rethought. Bigger than hand sanitizer, especially if that's
problematic, that we're going to have to look at ways to bring people back. I think that's all I have.
Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a few questions, a couple of comments. And I would
like to comment to Director Williams point about reinstating our fare collection. That's a fair point.
And what I would just like to say in response to that is, as you all are working on an or we'll receive
an update, on these recommendations that we consider worker protection. So I would feel much
more comfortable as a Director talking about reinstating fare collection if we are also coupling that
conversation with shields or protective factors that keep the operator from the general public just
to limit the spread. And then a second point I wanted to make was in response to Chair RiveraMalpiede's question regarding coming back in person for our board meetings.
And I would really like to-- I really hope that that conversation is centered in ensuring the safety
of directors and the general public, and how we might operationalize social distancing in that
space, because it's kind of a small space. And just thinking about logistically what that means as
directors, and as staff, and as an agency. And so those are my comments for that.
Back to the 2020 goals, I do have a few questions. I know during our retreat, we talked about a lot
of specific percentages. And maybe those percentages have changed with COVID, but I did just
want to point out to Director Guissinger's point to enhance process to communicate and discuss
service changes. I know there were some specific percentages that fell under that, and I know in
other pieces of this document that we have specific percentages. And so just that uniformity would
be helpful. Either we have them in here or we don't, just so we can wrap our mind around that.
To your point, Director Cook-- and I was actually going to bring this up-- Director Mihalik and I
had a conversation with Zamy regarding the create plan to strengthen relationships with the
disability community. And just to make you all aware as a Board, one of the things that we have
been discussing is to have the two disability communities that currently meet with RTD to

currently function similar to the CAC, and to have them directly reporting to the Board, that
conversation did not go anywhere.
And Director Mihalik feel free to share your opinion of that. I do think that we should do something
proactively, and that was an opportunity to do that, but we were not able to achieve that in our
meeting. And so I think it might be helpful, Mr. Ballard, to be sure that both you and Zamy are on
the same page. Because she was a bit confused-- we understood that that would actually come in
this plan, and that we would see that in this plan. And I'm not seeing that, so that's one point.
I think as we talk about expanding education around the LIFT program, I think we might need to
take it one step further, considering that lots of people have lost their jobs, that we might think
about the number of folks who may try to access both the LIFT program and other discount
programs. I know later on we talked about a certain percentage, particularly for discount programs.
But I just think that it might take more than one of the rovers, I think you may have called them,
to address the need in this moment where folks have lost their jobs.
And then I just had a question about the convened monthly discussions with homeless groups to
address barriers. And I was just curious, is there a specific barrier that we're hoping to address, or
is this in conjunction with the LIFT program? I just want to better understand that.
ZAMY SILVA: This is Zamy Silva. I'd like to address one of Director Lewis's points, if I may,
please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
ZAMY SILVA: So I did submit my plan as requested to the SLT folks. I submitted it to the GM
and also Heather, which I was informed would be part of the technical plan. And mine was
specifically to the ADA committees.
And I was also informed that that would be discussed later on when this technical plan was
submitted. And after discussions internally, there are a few recommendations that I am making.
Number one, with ACPD, I am proposing-- or we are proposing as a staff that they meet every
month. They currently meet every other month.
We are also proposing that an RTD Board member is appointed by the Board Chair to be added to
the a ACPD steering committee as a member, and bring forward a periodic report to the Board
during the civil rights committee update meetings. And we are also proposing that ACPD provides
a copy of the meeting minutes to the RTD Board. We are suggesting the same for the APAC,
except that APAC already provides a copy of the meeting minutes to the Board.
I am not sure if this is the right time to have this discussion. I have followed the instructions, and
I hope that's satisfied. I'll be more than happy to address any other questions pertaining to this right
now or at any other point.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And that's helpful for me. That was information I did not have. I
do appreciate that. And I thought that that was coming in this format. So thank you, Zamy, for that
update.
ZAMY SILVA: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, is that almost all of your questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No. So I didn't get my question answered about the monthly discussions with
homeless groups, and I was curious what barriers specifically those who were trying to address.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Which homeless group are you talking about?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, it says address transit equity, convene monthly discussions with
homeless groups to address barriers.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think Mike Meader can answer that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Yes, this is Mike Meader, chief safety and security officer. This is part of the
homeless task force that we talked a little bit about, I think, two weeks ago that is convening every
month. And it consists of a number of the homeless services groups. We are just kind of finalizing
the membership on that group, but we are having monthly meetings, talking about a plan we are
going to be presenting to the Board about how we can better offer information about homeless
services in working with the city and the homeless groups.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. I assumed as much, but I just wanted to make sure because it
wasn't included in the goal that it wasn't something different that we might have been talking about
that I didn't understand. So I do appreciate that. In the increased ridership-- it's goal number four- I just wanted to underscore the work that we're all going to need to do to really ensure public
trust.
That people know that our services are safe, that they're going to be safe on our services, and that
includes our operators as well. And back to the point that I made earlier about really seeing this as
an opportunity-- and this really falls under goal number three-- other agencies have taken this
pause-- I'll call it a pause-- to really see the opportunity how we might improve our services. And
I know it says adopt a new constrained system optimization plan, and that's where it might fall
where we might talk about transit, signal priority, or bus stop balancing, or bus bulbs, or transitonly lanes.
I don't know where those specific discussions might come in, or maybe even more frequency. But
I think, obviously, with more testing, with more PPE, and maybe even temperature checking. But
I just wanted to just say that because I think it's important that we see this as an opportunity.

And then I had a question of clarity for general manager Ballard. You said you wanted to authorize
the full authority of the transit security officers. I was just curious what you meant by that-- it
wasn't clear.
PAUL BALLARD: No, it was not-- this is Paul Ballard-- not the transit security officers. We have
a police department of 13 police officers who are fully certified by the state, and they have full
arrest authority. We've not been able to exercise those within the city and county of Denver for
some time.
And we're working with the city and county with some of the officials there to try to identify the
barriers to getting that done. I believe it's more administrative than anything else. And so we're
having some conversations. And if we're able to achieve that, then our officers will be able to fully
handle all of the situations that they encounter, and don't have to then call the Denver police to
come to actually take-- if there's a criminal act-- the person into custody. The cost for the Denver
police is significantly higher than one of our officers.
And also this would give us an opportunity to put more highly qualified, certified police officers
in service, and perhaps reduce some of the threat to security officers who are not police officers,
but fulfill that function in a lot of places. So it's a work-in-progress, and we think it's an opportunity
to enhance safety and reduce the cost of security overtime. And so that's what we're working on.
We're getting some good results in our conversations-- Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. I really appreciate you explaining that to me. If you could, two
requests. The first request is that if you could provide me with a summary of the work that you all
are doing? I'm just curious about that work, and I shared that I was just concerned about
communities that had been over-policed, and that concern was still true for me.
And so I just want to make sure that we aren't inadvertently having actions that may cause that.
And then the second request, where it says to address transit equity, it might be worth including in
the equity-- in calling out rather equity and implicit bias training, for our security contractors and
the police officers, the 13 folks that you spoke about. And that concludes my comments.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you. And your second point is certainly well taken. But the first point,
by making this shift, we feel that we would put higher, more qualified, better trained police officers
dealing with these situations. And we think that that will enhance the relationship between RTD
and all of our customers and guests on our properties.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. Thank you, Director Lewis. Director
Lubow, do you have any questions or comments?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I do. Thank you very much. First, I know that myself and some other Board
members have submitted written suggestions and comments to the tactical plan, and it's my hope
that there would be some kind of response that we would get back to make sure that these things
are being absorbed.

And the best response would be to see that the tactical plan might be enhanced with these
suggestions, and also perhaps other action items. But I would love to see some kind of response to
what was submitted. And then I just have a couple of questions and comments. Goal number one,
strengthen public communications, there is the issue of enhancing the process to discuss service
changes.
And like Director Guissinger, I hope this has to do with having stakeholders and the public
involved earlier in the service change process, because I have certainly heard that request for years,
and I would really second it if that's what this change will include. A couple more things. Goal
number two, address transit equity, the issue of updating unfunded Corridor Plan. This is such an
important issue that I would urge that there be significant stakeholder and public input involved in
doing this. Another point in transit equity-- has to do with strengthening the relationship with the
disability community.
And I've raised this before-- Joe Triplett, one of the people that attends our meeting regularly, he
has urged us to have a CAC-like annual dinner with folks with disability, of the disability groups,
between the disability groups and the Board so that we could get to know each other better, and
discuss things more frankly. So I wanted to share that. Well, I think that is-- I think I have one
more. Wait one second. No, that's it for that. That's it for me. Thank you very much for listening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I want to go right to goal number two, which is address transit equity.
And I feel that bullet point five and six, they bring up concerns for me. I think if I went out and
asked 100 people what-- remember here, what we've done is we've told staff go do these things.
But if we went out and asked 100 people what is equity, we'd get 100 answers. So I feel we have
a very gray bullet point five and six, and I'm not sure what that is producing for the agency when
it is so gray when we have a lot of priorities right now, things that we didn't even envision at our
most recent retreat at the beginning of March. So I have a lot of concerns about taking energy,
effort, money, and directing staff to take on something where I don't think if we, as a Board, all
said what's our vision of equity, I suspect we'd have between 12 to 15 answers.
So when it says establish an RTD internal equity working group by the end of the year and implicit
bias training, which is apparently a buzz thing, I'm not sure why we've got this in our strategic
plan. I'm looking now at the rest, and I really don't see anything else of concern to me. But I do
have a considerable amount of concern about sending staff out to do something when I don't even
think we've defined it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I appreciate the conciseness of the document, and no additional comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I appreciate the conciseness of
directors Buzek and Mihalik. I concur. Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. The only comment I have is that I believe that riders will come back
when they have a place to go. So when someone they're comfortable working in offices five feet
from somebody else, they're comfortable going to football games, or any of the baseball-- whatever
sport starts up first, and bars and restaurants, then I think we'll start to see our ridership improve.
And I think as long as we maintain that we're-- keep pushing that message out that we're cleaning- the enhanced cleaning, the more often cleaning, and whatever chemicals are needed to combat
the virus, if there are any out there-- I guess besides alcohol. That we're doing what it takes to keep
them safe, and as long as they feel safe to wherever they're going, I think they'll come back. So I'm
not too worried about staff's effort on that. I think as long as we maintain the current message, that
we'll see them come back.
Maybe not in numbers because I know a lot of places, including Denver, have shut down some
streets to promote walking and physical distancing. I'm not sure how many will come back through
no effort-- or despite staff's efforts. I think there'll be some amount that don't come back.
Like I said, I'm not planning on going back to my office until sometime in July. That's it. But I do
appreciate the report. Thank you for your presentations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Appreciate the report. I have no comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I thought you'd forgotten me. I appreciate everybody's comments on this. I
think there was some very interesting points made, and I don't have any to add to it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I would just say that I really appreciate all the
comments made by all of the directors. I think that they were really, really good. The one thing
that I can't help but think about is all of this data that shows that we may not be out of the woods
yet, and in fact, there might be a second resurgence of this in the fall.
And I'm wondering as we're looking at all of these goals and expectations, if there's some fluidity
in it available so that we may have to go back to square one because of this virus. And with that,
I'm done. So Mr. Ballard, we can go on to the 2021 goals.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, thank you, madam Chair. We feel like we've had some really good
discussions as well. Thank you to you and all of the Board members. I'll just hit the high points
really on the 2021 goals starting on your packet, page 11.
And of course, this continues and expands the discussion from the 2020 goal on transparent public
communication. It lays out some specific steps that the Board expressed an interest in doing. It's a

common theme. The proactive stakeholder public input, we're hearing that loud and clear, and
that's laid out here very clearly for 2021.
New employee engagement-- and of course, that stems from the retention issues that we've had.
And then of course, building partnerships with local governments for seamless mobility options
and others, that has come through very clearly at the retreat and continuing discussions. We have
the transit equity issue increase the number of discounted fare products sold by 25%.
I think 2021, we're going to have to be careful as to how our financial situation works out, but
that's just one thing we will keep in mind. Develop and implement pilot projects for alternative
transit options for underserved areas or populations. These could be first mile, last mile services,
real time call-a-ride services in geographic areas.
On page 12, goal number three is enhance current and future transportation methods. Implement
new system plan as identified through the Reimagine process. The whole Reimagine process, of
course, leads to a stepped process. You have the system optimization plan, which is making sure
that what we decide to do-- what the Board decides to do is financially sustainable.
That's a short-term plan. And then the longer-term plan-- mid-term and long-term is what's called
the mobility plan, which is how do you actually implement all the issues developed from the
Reimagine plan through the system optimization plan, and what those particular modes might be.
The goal number four, increase the ridership by improving the rider experience. So this allows us
to move forward technologically.
Implemented an account based ticketing system by the end of 2021. And what that does is that
moves the storage of data from the smart cards, and other stripe cards, and all the different fare
media really to the cloud. So that you can use your cell phone to do one thing, you can use a smart
card and do something else, but it's all stored in the cloud.
That's technology that's being developed and implemented by other transit systems, and that is the
goal by 2021 should the Board adopt that as well. And then on page 13, strengthen safety and
security. And we listed some specifics that we think we can achieve.
We have the baseline numbers established. I can certainly go through those, but that will be laid
out ultimately as we develop the strategies to support these goals. So that's the look ahead to 2021.
I have a suspicion that these will change over the few months as everything else is changing in our
world, but this is what we got from the march 7th. And we'll be happy to address any issues,
questions, observations, suggestions on 2021.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I do have a question this time. Have we any discussions with people at the
DEN about when they expect the airport to begin to function more normally, which will require
service?

PAUL BALLARD: Yes. This is Paul Ballard, CEO and general manager, Director Broom. I
actually had a conversation last week-- a telephone conversation with the Director of Operations
at the airport, and they're kind of like we are. They're just holding on, maintaining, and waiting to
see how things develop. They don't have a better crystal ball than we do. So I thought I might be
able to find something out, but unfortunately, we're all in the same boat as far as any projections.
BOB BROOM: And what about the downtown mall? What are the people there saying when they
think things are going to come back to where they're going to need mall shuttling service?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, I also-- and this is Paul Ballard-- had a very good discussion with some
of the leaders of the Downtown Denver Partnership on a Zoom call where we could all see each
other. And they are very interested in what we're doing as far as restoring service. They showed
me a bar chart that they put together showing that 46% of downtown employees use RTD to get
to and from work, which is a pretty impressive number. But we talked about when the business is
expected to start bringing people back. I was a little surprised that two of the people on the call
said that they plan to bring back 50% of their office staff the first Monday they are able to do so.
BOB BROOM: But this is kind of like the chicken and the egg. Each is waiting on the other.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. And so I asked them if they would do a survey of their
membership and try to get us some numbers as to what they are projecting for employees coming
back downtown, which would help us to plan better the restoration of service. So we continue to
reach out to these types of organizations near the airport, the partnership, and others to make sure
that we're plugged in and we're getting the benefit of everybody's input as we do our plan.
BOB BROOM: Yeah. And finally, maybe we need to change our terminology about increased
ridership to recapturing lost riders or something like that, because we're not going to show better
numbers going forward than what we've had in the past for quite some time. Thank you. That's all
I've got.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, madam Chair. And somebody mentioned the need to continue to be
fluid. And especially in these times, and moving forward, as Director Broom said, it's going to be
a long time down the road.
You need to be fluid or you die, and we need to do that. So all these goals are great, and may at
this point seem more aspirational than real. Important to have, but I think it's also important that
we all understand and realize that we need to be able to move, and change, and go with the flow
during whatever is going on at the time.
So I appreciate staff-- Paul, I appreciate your work. Senior leadership team, you guys have done
great work throughout all of this. And again, I've said it before, I'll say it again, I appreciate you
basing decisions on fact and data, and appropriate science, and not on anecdote and emotion.
Thanks.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, madam Chair. Director Buzek, you kind of stole my thunder. I was
going to say the same thing. This is not so much a concrete plan, but a plan to plan.
And I also agree with Director Broom that increasing ridership is not-- I mean, our baseline
obviously has changed and will change. And I think his suggestion of recapturing riders is a really
good one in this time of fear and uncertainty. So thank you to the other directors, and I appreciate
staff efforts on this.
And I also wanted to make a comment about the recovery matrix. And I just think that's a great
way to outline circumstances and actions moving forward. The decision criteria, I think that was a
really, really great way to present options. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, madam Chair. No questions. I agree with many of the
points-- most of the points that have been made. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I agree with a lot of what's been said. Goal number four,
increase ridership-- we might even want to rethink the bullet points. I think that one is probably
pre-COVID, and there'll be other things I'm sure we'll be working on.
And I was surprised that the increased-- the number of discounted fare products sold was at 25%.
I would have thought that our goal, especially on the LIFT program, a year from now would be
higher. But I'm going to follow-up with that with Heather separately. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, can I address that last piece?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes. Go ahead, Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I just wanted to point out on the discounted fares that we originally
had that goal for 2020, but because of not charging for fares right now, et cetera, we're basically
kind of starting with a whole new baseline for all fares. So we thought that that was actually pretty
aggressive based on where we're probably going to be starting from once we return to fare
collection. So that was the purpose for putting it in 2021 and the percentage.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McKillop. Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate this. I actually agree with a lot of what other folks have said,
particularly with just really needing to be fluid. I think it's really important. I appreciate the
comment that Director Buzek has made several times about focusing on the science.
And I think [LAUGHS] we have done that sometimes and not done that in other times. But I do
appreciate everyone being flexible during this time in really seeing the opportunity. And I may be
looking at this differently from other folks, but I don't think we're just going to go back to normal,
and this is an opportunity to rethink our system and build a system that makes sense for more
riders.
And to answer your question, Director Menten, I actually agree with you about defining equity.
And there is a definition for equity, and I'd encourage us all to look into it. But one of the things
that we've seen during this virus is that there are communities that have been hit much harder by
COVID-19 than other communities, particularly black communities, Latinx communities, poor
communities.
So when we talk about equity, I think there are some folks who understand that in theory, and there
are others who understand that in experience. And I think it might be worth us having a
conversation as a Board to really define what it means-- what equity means, and how we center
equity in a pandemic response. That concludes my comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I second a lot of the things that people have been saying, especially
that we need to be flexible as we go forward, because we really don't know at this point what transit
is going to look like in the next few years. It could be very different depending on how people
react to being in transit after the virus, or it could be similar.
We just don't know, and we're going to have to be flexible and deal with it. One issue that I think
is incredibly important-- still important no matter what happens is, one of the goals was, number
one, strengthening public communications, building partnerships with local governments for
seamless transit. I think that's even more important now than before.
We're going to need to work with our jurisdictional partners to make this thing work better. And I
really urge that that work is one of the goals. That's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, under goal three which is where we've got the service
optimization plan, could I get a response to-- what it says in here is that it would be implemented
by mid-2021. My question is would we potentially be able to implement that for January?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: I'd like to ask Bill Van Meter to handle that, please.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: I just unmuted. So I want to be sure that I understood the question correctly.
Could you please repeat it?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Goal number
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Three states implement new service optimization plan as
identified through Reimagine in mid-2021. And my question is whether we can be stating
implement the SLP by January 2021?
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. I thought I heard it that way. I really don't think that's a
reasonable expectation. The level of changes that we're looking at in terms of the network design
will require a significant amount of stakeholder, Board member, and importantly, citizen review
and input.
That process is-- we're anticipating it'll be made even more difficult given the current restrictions
on outreach. And that's going to make the next two months of analysis and feedback with our
stakeholders more difficult. We'll then need to do that review process, a formal hearing process,
bring that information back to you, the Board of Directors, and get that information completed by
the end of this year.
An implementation for January of next year is just not reasonable given all those steps that we
need to accomplish to make sure that we have a solid plan. And frankly, a plan that is responsive
as best as it can to many of the things that the Board has been discussing tonight regarding impacts,
at least in the mid-term, from coronavirus on our ridership and finances, and in our service division.
So it's a pretty aggressive schedule to get all of this done by the end of this year in terms of a Board
approval. And that then means a process that would result in a mid-2021 implementation.
NATALIE MENTEN: So that is where the question lies, is that the plan had been to try to get this
[? SLP ?] approved by the end of the year. Does that mean our goal is finding one way or another
to do the public outreach just like we would do our normal-- Jessie Carter comes to us, says here's
what we suggest. We, the Board, say give thumbs up, then we go out and do our month of outreach,
and it's implemented for the next scheduled service change. So are we looking at doing that public
outreach in Q4 this year, or Q1 next year?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, may I respond?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter, AGM, Planning. So it would be in the fourth quarter
of this year with Board adoption scheduled in November or December. Not in time to actually
implement those changes for the January run board. But presumably enough time to implement
those changes for the May 2021 run Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you, Mr. Van Meter. That's all.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing from me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, madam Chair. Interesting discussion, particularly
relative to goal number four. First of all, the whole thing is very good, and yes, it really is not
something written in stone, but rather something that serves as a useful template so that staff can
begin the preparation of a budget, because that's the principal reason behind the creation of these
goals. But relative to goal number four on increasing ridership, we have to acknowledge that
restoring ridership, not increasing ridership is the goal now, and it may be our goal for a long time.
So perhaps consider changing the goal to restoring ridership. And then we would consider
amending it back to increasing ridership, hopefully, God willing, some time next year. Thank you,
ma'am. Those are my comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. For goal number one, given the discussions that Mr. Ballard, and I'm
sure his staff, have been having with other agencies out there, like downtown Denver Partnership
and DEN, it looks like they're well on their way to developing a process for a proactive stakeholder
public input, meaning getting that feedback, having that dialogue with them.
For goal number two, that first bullet gives me a little bit of problem just because I think that
increasing access to folks who are in that-- who are eligible for discount fare would find jobs that
would get them out of that eligibility-- that would make them ineligible. Hopefully, that's the goal.
So I'm not sure if we want to see an increase in that.
Hopefully, we provide access to drive that number down. But given the case that it is, if that North
Metro Line discount fare goes into effect when the N Line opens, I hope that those fares-- the first
three months of those fares or whatever number of months are included in 2021 go towards that
goal, because I see that as a discounted fare, even though it doesn't have a different label on it. I
still see that as discounted fare that should go towards that goal.
Other than that, very good job. Yeah, that number for increased ridership, I think maybe that should
just be improved rider experience, because like I said, I don't know when ridership will come back.
I guess some folks are planning on filling their offices slowly, but it's going to whenever the public
feels comfortable going back to places, and being four feet from people instead of six feet from
people. That's it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Truly appreciate the great comments from my fellow Board members.
Very helpful and educational. One point-- much to the relief of all of us on the call tonight, I see
no mention of the N Line in 2021. Hallelujah. That's all.

[LAUGHING]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, madam Chair. Director Whitmore, that's because it's not ready
until 2022. No, not really. I have a couple of comments-- things that I want us to think about.
I have been saying for some time now that I do not believe that we are going to return to the world
that we lived in before, and I think that transit is a big part of that. I think that RTD did a
phenomenal-- absolutely amazing job of working with the disability community throughout this
whole process. We have gone to lengths that we had not gone before to help people who need it.
But when we're talking about equity, we haven't done the same thing for other communities.
We haven't done the same thing for the Latin community, or for the African-American community,
or for the low income community, although we dropped fares for everybody. So I'm happy that we
are moving forward with plans to do some more work with the disability community, but I'd like
to see us look at all of our ridership in that same lens-- the ridership that we have. And if we're
going to try and rebuild ridership, those are the kinds of things that we need to look at.
I don't see any discussion any place about not returning to collecting fares. I know that that is in
part of the Reimagine work, but I don't see it in any of this. So those are just thoughts that I have
about where we're going. And yeah, that's it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. You know what, I would just like to say thank you to
everybody. The documents that we've gone through tonight are quite in-depth. When you think
about the amount of work that has taken place, it's quite impressive.
I want to thank our leadership team for putting this together for our purview. And I want to thank
the Board for their insight and their ability to delve into it, and come up with good dialogue about
how we move forward as we govern as a group. And all the comments were really amazing.
I feel very good about this whole process. So we have come to the end of our evening. And I guess
I need to ask, does any Director have any other items to discuss?
PEGGY CATLIN: Quick, hang up!
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Seeing none!
[LAUGHING]
Hearing no other, I will entertain a motion to adjourn this study session.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I heard Tisdale and who else?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second. Director Williams. We have a movement and a second-- Director
Tisdale-- and the second by Director Williams. All in-- If anybody says no first-- OK, hearing
none.
We're adjourned. But before you hang up, I'd like to say a couple of things. The board meeting is
adjourned. There are no meetings scheduled for next Tuesday, May 5th, but we will be back the
following week for the operations, and customer service, and finance administration, and audit
committee meetings on May 12th.
And our meetings will continue to be held remotely until further notice, and the calling number
will be the same you used to connect to tonight's meeting. Thank you all for joining us. Have a
good night, stay safe, and I'll be talking to you soon. It's 15 minutes before howling. You'll be just
in time. Thanks.

