1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, May 13, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:30 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District L
Director, District H
Director, District N

Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:21 PM
5:29 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Present

5:18 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District E
Director, District J
Committee Chair

Remote
Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:25 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

5:28 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:23 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:35 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District C
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present

5:42 PM
5:24 PM
5:27 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:25 PM

Director Folska participated via telephone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Joseph Christie, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin
Diviness, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova,
Svetlana Grechka, Kenn Hardin, Genevieve Hutchison, Terry
Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Vivian
Morales, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha,
Bill Sirois, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Zack Alexander, Greg Amparano, Jenifer Brandeberry, Dan Cohen,
Marion Combs, Audrey DeBarros, Mike Dino, Aaron Epstein,
Sherman Hamilton, Dan Heilig, Julie McKenna, EJ Meade, Daniel
Pearsall, Laura Rinker, Marta Sipeki, Johnnie Solo, Cindy Stovall,
Jonnie Thomas, George Thorn, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Sean
Vonfeldt, Monte Whaley, Christina Zazueta

B. Updates
Committee Chair James indicated there would be a small change in the agenda.
The Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) which normally reports out in the
FasTracks Monitoring Committee would provide an update first on the agenda.


CAC Update
Cindy Stovall shared that the last CAC meeting was April 16, 2014. The
agenda consisted of updates on the Central Rail Line Mobility Study, the I225 rail line, and the CAC members/RTD Directors one-on-one meetings.
She pointed out that a few one-on-one meetings have been rescheduled.
She expressed her appreciation to the Directors for taking time to meet with
the CAC members. She shared that sixteen out of the seventeen CAC
members attended the DUS Gala on May 8, 2014 and that many attended
the Grand Opening on May 9, 2014. The CAC looks forward to touring the
East Rail Line at the end of May.

• Bike Parking and Accessibility Plan
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, and Genevieve
Hutchison, Transportation Planner, presented the Bike Parking and
Accessibility Plan starting on page 4 of the Planning &
Development/FasTracks Monitoring/Government Relations Committee

Meetings Packet for May 13, 2014. Genevieve Hutchison stated the
purpose of the update as:
 background on RTD’s bike parking
 explain why RTD is doing the study
 discuss completed elements
 discuss next steps
She emphasized that the purpose of the online survey was to study bike
rider behavior. The survey identified safety and security as the top concerns
for bike riders when using RTD bike parking facilities.
Director Tobiassen stated that he had sent the Bike Parking and Accessibility
Plan presentation to various leaders in the bicycle community and sent their
feedback to Genevieve Hutchison via email. He noted one of the comments
identified Denver and RTD as innovators and asked RTD to be bold, brave,
and to continue to be leaders in this aspect. Director Tobiassen
recommended reaching out to experts in the cycling field to expand
creativity and innovation. He also suggested expanding the Smart Card
technology to the bicycle locker system at the light rail stations. He
suggested a “Bike Tool Tree” inside secure areas such as Boulder’s Busthen-Bike Shelters. He encouraged Staff to improve the bike parking
experience and expressed his gratitude for all their work.
Director Bagley asked Staff where most of the survey responses came from
within the District. Genevieve Hutchison replied that the responses
represented the overall District with an emphasis on Boulder and the US-36
Corridor. She mentioned the survey collected location data for specific
replies and will forward the raw results available to Directors Bagley.
Director Walker encouraged Genevieve Hutchison and her team to work with
city and/or jurisdiction bike coordinators to make the last mile, trails, and
bike lanes safe and accessible for all riders.
Chair Sisk noted Boulder has a high percentage of ridership among bike
riders. He challenged Staff to consider how to increase ridership in the
entire District by using bike parking and accessibility to the last mile. He
encouraged Staff to challenge the unchallenged and to use other transit
authorities, such as Portland’s TriMet, as an example.
Director Hoy asked Staff for feedback on the low rental rate of RTD bike
lockers, currently at 40%. He also asked Staff to monitor Boulder’s Busthen-Bike Shelters program, owned and administered by Boulder County, to
explore their success rate.
Director Lasater asked Staff to consider alternative rail options for heavier
frame/cruiser style bikes. He also inquired about bike storage in regional and

local buses as bike season approaches and at times bike riders are passed up
due to full capacity. Genevieve Hutchison noted that 2 bikes fit in each of
the 2 or 3 baggage compartments of the regional buses, for a total of 4 to 6
bikes per bus. In local buses, she said it is at the discretion of the bus
operator to allow bikes inside the bus. She mentioned that her team has
looked into 3-bike racks for local buses but has not moved forward due to
safety concerns.
Director Solano asked if Staff has looked into stops and stations that could
be suited for a pilot study on shelters similar to Boulder’s Bus-then-Bike
program. Genevieve Hutchison said she is working with Boulder County to
get more information on their program as well as studying area density and
connections in order to identify pilot stations.
Director Rivera-Malpiede thanked Staff for their work and encouraged them
to meet with leaders from Transportation Management Associations (TMA),
Transportation Management Organizations (TMO), Denver Regional Council
of Government (DRCOG) and Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
to explore bike programs and expand the collaborative model for the region.
Committee Chair James echoed Director Rivera-Malpiede’s recommendation.

• NAMS Update
Bill Van Meter and Chris Quinn, Project Manager for Planning, presented the
Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) Update starting on page 19 of the
Planning & Development/FasTracks Monitoring/Government Relations
Committee Meetings Packet for May 13, 2014. The NAMS update
presented 5 Key Tasks that reflect the general consensus of the Policy
Advisory Committee (PAC) on April 18, 2014:
 for I-25 Downtown Express HOV lanes, analyze potential alternatives
to facilitate reverse commute between downtown Denver and US 36
 determine remaining FasTracks Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) funding/scope
commitments for US 36 BRT Corridor
 evaluate feasibility and cost of constructing the Northwest Rail in
segments
 evaluate potential for extending North Metro Line to Longmont
 Evaluate potential mobility improvements in the area such as arterial
BRT on Diagonal and US 287
It also presented the parameter agreed upon by PAC:
“Northwest area remains committed to NW Rail as envisioned by
FasTracks and given the projected timing of the NW Rail’s
implementation, NW stakeholders want to see benefits sooner.”

Chris Quinn also noted two upcoming Telephone Town Hall meetings on
May 19, 2014 and May 21, 2014.
Director Anderson expressed her concern over Senate Bill 197 and any
effects it would have on the reverse commute. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
said Senate Bill 197 is not signed yet. If it is signed, then it would affect
future projects and not any already signed contracts. Director Anderson
asked if RTD would have to work with DRCOG on any long term BRT routes
outside of NAMS. Chris Quinn confirmed her assertion.
Director Bagley asked why Staff recommends Route 119, with a 2035
projected ridership of 5,000 boardings as presented by Staff, as priority over
Highway 287, with a 2035 projected ridership of 9,000 boardings. Chris
Quinn answered that Route 119 connects the communities and job centers
in Boulder and Longmont. Bill Van Meter noted the presentation is an
update and not a recommendation, though he anticipates Staff will
recommend the study suggestions at the June 3, 2014 Planning &
Development Committee Meeting. Director Bagley asked for the cost and
mileage for each corridor. Chris Quinn answered Route 119 is 18.5 miles
and HWY 287 is 21.8 miles. Each corridor has a similar cost averaging $55
million.
Chair Sisk thanked Directors Anderson, Hoy, and Lubow for participating in
the 13 month NAMS process and commended each entity on their
participation. He hopes the Directors would see the collective nature of the
stakeholders as they came together to leverage the opportunity to make a
difference in the NW area.
Director Lubow commended HNTB as consultants and Staff for their
excellent work on NAMS. She reiterated the sentiment of the taxpayer and
stakeholders regarding the desire for rail and asked RTD to pursue annual
efforts to move forward with that plan.
Director Hoy emphasized that Route 119 was the consensus of all
stakeholders, even those who would not benefit by the route. Stakeholders
could not reach a consensus on option #2 and allowed Staff to decide.
Staff chose HWY 287. Director Hoy asked Staff to not abandon the rail
option or HWY 7, as it provides an east/west connection.
Director Solano noted the Financial Analysis’ Issues and Variables portion
alludes to assumptions that would affect the projections. Chris Quinn
explained the projections would change if the performance of the economy
and tax revenue changes. Director Solano asked why the remaining
corridors could not be financed by Certificate of Operations. Chris Quinn
answered that RTD has no ownership of the underlying property.

Director Bagley pointed out the rail component for the NW was voted for in
2004 and could only be removed by a vote. Using the SW corridor as an
example, he noted that investments are made only when full funding for a
segment is available. He also noted that RTD consistently works in areas
where there is ridership and revenue. He understood the collaborative piece
of NAMS and challenged the statement of Route 119 connecting two
communities as HWY 287 connects 5 communities.
Director Lubow shared her experience commuting on both Route 119 and
HWY 287 and noted how Route 119 is already at capacity thus a better
option for a BRT. She also emphasized the strength of the communities it
connects.

• TOD Report
Bill Sirois, Manager for Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) & Planning
Coordination, and Patrick McLaughlin, Associate for TOD, presented the
TOD report starting on page 47 of the Planning & Development/FasTracks
Monitoring/Government Relations Committee Meetings Packet for May 13,
2014.
Bill Sirois pointed out the report’s new format as compact and graphically
pleasing. He noted the ground breaking for the Alameda Station Pilot Project
and the closing on the 26th and Welton property as 2014 events since the
report covers the year 2013.
Patrick McLaughlin noted the report has been released annually since 2005.
The report includes the internal database of all new real estate development
within a half a mile from transit as well as existing and future planning
activities related to TOD.
Director Lasater asked for clarification on the meaning of current and future
stops. Patrick McLaughlin used the East Rail as an example, as those
stations are under constructions. Director Lasater then asked about the
activity in the SE corridor since new developments, such as Kaiser
Permanente’s and Skyridge Medical new facilities, seem to not be included.
Patrick McLaughlin said that he could make the exact figures available. He
mentioned that both Kaiser Permanente and Skyridge are included in the
database and that perhaps were included in the “office” category.
Director Anderson was struck by the “cookie-cutter” style of most new
development along transit. Aware that RTD does not do land use planning,
she encouraged Staff to communicate the need for variety with developers.

Director Bagley thanked Staff for the report and pointed out the increase in
retail activity in 2006 due to FlatIrons Crossing as a great example of retail
and transit.
Director Solano asked for clarification on the “cultural” category. Patrick
McLaughlin said the category included museums, performance spaces, and
art galleries. He also noted the database includes development along
planned stations. Director Solano asked for an explanation on the cultural
development component along the North Metro line. Patrick McLaughlin
said it is concentrated in the Stock Show area and around 104th Avenue.
Director Tobiassen appreciated Director Anderson’s comment on the
similarity of residential development along transit. He asked Staff for data
regarding property value changes along transit and TOD vs. away from
transit. He also inquired about the residential demographics and RTD pass
ownership along the corridors. This data, he mentioned, would be useful to
promote TOD future development. Patrick McLaughlin answered that
throughout the economic cycles, value on properties closer to transit
reduced less than those further from transit. He also mentioned he is
working with Dennis Yaklich, Market Research Manager, to develop new
surveys to give statistical snapshots on how people access stations and
what kind of transportation they are using, among other data. The findings
will be reported to the Board.
Director Lubow had a recent conversation with Bill Sirois in which he
mentioned other ideas that were not included on the update and asked him
to briefly mention them. Bill Sirois said future ideas deal with process, how
to move forward, creation of more pilots, perhaps changing the way RTD
does business, etc. He mentioned that research is being conducted
internally and externally and his team will come to the Board later in the year
with more information.
Director James thanked the Staff for the new TOD report format. He agreed
with Director Tobiassen on promoting TOD’s value creation with our
partners in the community.
Director Bagley pointed out that all corridors are different. He also noted the
Millennial Generation as the one mostly attracted to TOD, the one better
positioned after the recession, and the necessity to cater projects to that
market.
Director Solano asked about educational development along transit. Patrick
McLaughlin referred him to the second slide of the overview which included
the education category. Director Solano noted his concern regarding

gentrification in certain Districts and wondered how to discourage the
practice.
Director Folska congratulated Phil Washington on his vision and mentioned
how I-225 and North Metro are a result of the 2010 Industry Forum vision
casting. She also congratulated Marla Lien and her team. She asked Staff
why commercial real estate development would be surprising since they
have to go through the planning, zoning, and permit processes. She
encouraged Staff to work with permit agencies in order to maximize TOD
research and development.
Director Folska expressed her confusion on the University development
numbers. Bill Sirois explained the numbers were reached by ongoing
conversation with developers and trying to price them in relation to the pay
for parking program. He also said that the final price is not determined
because marketing is still working on the survey. Director Folska asked for a
deadline for the final price. Committee Chair James asked Director Folska to
address these questions offline with Staff. Director Folska replied that she
tried to ask the questions prior to the meeting and said she will contact Bill
Sirois for further clarification.

• University Retail Space
Bill Sirois presented the University Retail Space Update starting on page 82
of the Planning & Development/FasTracks Monitoring/Government Relations
Committee Meetings Packet for May 13, 2014. The update includes
University Station Apartments and the University Station Garage (USG).
Bill Sirois noted how in 2006, when the USG opened, RTD thought it was a
great idea to build a retail front. Today, the approach would be different.
Committee Chair James thanked Staff for acknowledging USG retail front as
a “lessons learned” process. He asked Staff if there was any research on
how the parking was to be structured and/or distributed. Bill Sirois said
there has been some discussion on angled parking but the City and County
of Denver was not very supportive.
Director Tobiassen noted that one of the rejected Request for Proposal (RFP)
from 2012 is close to the current RTD proposal. He expressed his
disappointment on the repetition and missing on the opportunity of working
then with a well-known developer.
Director Lubow asked for copies of the 2012 RFPs and the responses.

Committee Chair James asked if any entity has the option, interest, and/or
first buyer right of refusal on the USG other than RTD or the Federal Transit
Administration. Bill Sirois answered no.
Director Folska asked about property rights to adjacent property owners.
Marla Lien answered that RTD has never had a policy of giving property
rights to adjacent owners. Director Folska was pleased the RFP was an
open process. She also noted the importance of RTD marketing its
properties to their highest use and developing public trust with the taxpayers
RTD serves.
Phil Washington noted that RTD uses all mechanisms available to promote
properties. In 2012, RFP responses were deemed unresponsive when
compared to the requested specifications. The new RFP has additions from
lessons learned and Staff believes it will get responses.

C. Other Matters
Committee Chair James asked the Directors to log out and close E-Boardroom.
Staff will assist with launching the program for the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee Meeting.

D. Next Meeting Date - June 3, 2014
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned to FasTracks Monitoring Committee at 7:24
P.M.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

