Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, August 1, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:40 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:40 PM
5:40 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:40 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Remote

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:40 PM
5:40 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:40 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:40 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Absent
Present
Present

5:40 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:40 PM
5:40 PM

5:40 PM
5:40 PM

Committee Chair Walker noted that there were some computer issues, and Directors were
having issues logging in, so the committee would have to be run manually until the system
was up and running. He added that, if Directors had questions, they would have to raise
their hands.
Committee Chair Walker asked Barbara McManus to call roll. There were 12 Directors
present at roll call. Director Folska participated via phone, and Directors Deadwyler and
Sisk were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Paul DesRocher, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons,
David Genova, Bob Grado, Ali Imansepahi, Carly Macias, Doug
MacLeod, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Bill Sirois, Henry
Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Mark Tieman, Tanzania Trout, Gary
Turnquist, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Theresa Brandorff, Ian Choudri, Mike Dino,
William Gross, Jessica Hernandez, Aaron Marx, Julie McKenna, David
Sauk, Roger Sherman, John Thompson, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner, Jeff Whitman,

B. Recommended Actions
Committee Chair Walker stated that there were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, stated that there were three items on his
report: the Metro Mayors Caucus Transportation Advisory Committee, local
elections, and the Denver GO Bond.
He said that the Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) remain committed to a 2018
statewide initiative for transportation funding. He said that everyone is
trying to figure out if there is a path forward in the legislature during 2018,
but no decisions have been made yet. He added that the Regional
Transportation Association (RTA) option mentioned in the report is a very
complicated process that would require a signed intergovernmental
agreement (IGA) with every jurisdiction in RTD’s boundaries. He noted
however, that if there was a larger regional RTA, it would include both local
and regional projects. He remarked that if the voters were to approve an
RTA for the front range, it would be difficult to get them to support a state
wide funding option.

Mr. Sherman said that, in regards to local elections, the deadline for filing
nominating petitions is August 28, 2017. He stated that some jurisdictions
have candidates announced, while others have no filings to date. He added
that once the ballots are certified, CRL would provide RTD with a complete
list of the candidates within RTD’s service area.
Mr. Sherman remarked that, Mayor Hancock submitted his project
recommendations to the Denver City Council on July 12, 2017, and the final
list included additional projects and was larger than the committee had
expected. He noted that the committee will deliberate and refer a final list
to the November ballot.
Director Lubow asked if there had been any discussion about approaching
the legislature to make the RTD process less complicated.
Mr. Sherman said that the discussion was about amending or creating a
parallel process that only the metro area would qualify for. He noted that
there was no incentive for rural legislatures to support that, and the
assessment had been that it was a heavy lift because of rural vs. urban
interests.
Director Francone stated that there was a robust discussion earlier in the day
at a Jefferson County (Jeffco) staff briefing. She said that Commissioner
Tighe indicated several times that an RTA would solve all of Jeffco’s
transportation problems. She noted that it is never clear to her when
laymen discuss transportation or what that means, and she said that the
funds they hope to receive would be devoted to fixing potholes and gutters.
Mr. Sherman said that RTA’s fit better when in a single county and noted
the success of El Paso County. He said that the challenge occurs when
there are multiple counties and jurisdictions, and it is even more complicated
with a wider footprint.
Director Anderson said that she was the co-chair of the Statewide
Transportation Advisory Committee (STAC) when El Paso County passed
their RTA and they took a lot of heat from Pueblo County. She commented
that all of the roads in Colorado are connected and they do not end at the
county or city lines. She stated that the best solution would be a state-wide
solution, and if that cannot be done it would be devastating to the entire
state.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry-McKenna (BBMK), said that things have
been busy since the end of June when the Colorado Department of Revenue
contacted RTD about the drafting error in SB 267 which impacted RTD and
other districts’ ability to collect on the 2.9% sales tax on retail marijuana.

She noted that the good news is that the parties involved in drafting the bill
have publicly stated that the drafting error was not their intent, and they
have committed to correcting the issue.
Ms. Brandeberry added that the Transportation Legislative Review
Committee (TLRC) has meetings scheduled for September 20, 2017, and
November 2, 2017. She said that BBMK would keep the Board apprised of
dates and times so that they, along with RTD staff, could attend.
Ms. Brandeberry noted that three topics dominated the last legislative
session: transportation, construction defects reform, and the hospital
provider fee.
Director Lubow asked if there was a list of projects for SB 267.
Ms. Brandeberry said no but said that the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) had released a white paper explaining the
transportation funds that were identified and how the funding for
transportation would flow.
Director Lubow asked how RTD fit into that discussion.
Ms. Brandeberry explained that the bill allows for $1.8 billion to be bonded
and there is a 10% requirement that CDOT spend those proceeds for transit
projects, with a way for the funds to flow through CDOT.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, stated that the federal government is trying
to get some of the spending bills through the process. He noted that the
House Appropriations Committee has marked up and favorably reported out
its fiscal year 2018 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development
appropriations bill on July 17, 2017. He noted that the House bill makes
some reductions to transportation funding levels compared to fiscal year
2017, and all amendments to increase funding for programs including the
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) and New
Starts grants were defeated. He noted that in the Senate they had hoped to
have the health care issue taken care of first, but the dominoes were not
falling in the way they had anticipated. He stated that, when they return
from recess, it will be apparent if they have the energy to get things on the
line. He added that the President created a 15-member Infrastructure
Council on July 19, 2017, and the members will represent various interests,
but there have not been any appointments made to date. He further added
that the President is trying to pass tax reform by the end of the year, but
that would be extremely challenging.

Director Francone asked if the four unfunded corridors would be funded
since they were identified as New Starts.
Mr. Dino explained that the House scaled back on New and Small Starts and
this may be one of the last years that they try to fund what exists. He
noted that the Senate was different in how they approached things, and
they have consistently funded their New Starts program. He commented
that if the government continues to work under a continuing resolution, the
funding levels would revert back to 2017, and there would be money for
those programs, but the eligibility requirements would not change.
Director Francone inquired about RTD’s $29 million credit and the status of
those funds.
Mr. Dino said that most likely, it will take a policy change by the Office of
Budget Management as well as some legislation. He said that the issue lies
in that no one has ever paid off their loans or was able to request to get
their money back. He added that he would continue to work towards
finding a solution.
Director Anderson said that Arvada is tired of waiting for the G Line. She
said that her community has been very patient, but they are beginning to get
angry. She said that the University of Colorado A Line runs every day, and
the G Line has the same tracks, crossings, and crossing guards, but no train.
She said that it is time that Arvada went to Washington to voice and
publicize their resentment and they will take the steps to make it happen.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone extended an invitation to the Board to join her for a bike tour of
the light rail system with Bike Jeffco on August 9, 2017. She said that the tour
would begin at the Jefferson County Courts Building at 9:15 a.m. where the tour
will board the W Line. She noted that anyone that wanted to join was welcome,
and to please let her know.
Director Anderson commented that there was not enough room on light rail vehicles
for electric bikes. She added that Bike Jeffco should contact RTD to bar any issues
for the August 9th event.
Committee Chair Walker noted that last week, he attended the APTA Transit Board
Members and Board Support Seminar in Chicago, then participated in the APTA
Leadership Committee in Vancouver, British Columbia. He said that safety is a big
concern and was on everyone’s mind. He also noted that building a culture of
safety starts at the top, and in Vancouver, they were preparing for their
presentations at the APTA Annual Conference in October. He also congratulated
General Manager Genova on his nomination to the APTA Executive Committee.

Director Menten inquired about the $30.00 land deal with the City of Arvada, and
asked for more information about the facts concerning that issue.
Director Anderson stated that the property in question has always been in public
use. She said that years ago, it was a baseball field, then it became the Boyds
Crossing Park-n-Ride which then became the Olde Town Arvada Park-n-Ride. She
remarked that a piece of that property was transferred back to the city and there
was a lot of remediation for that property. She added that Mr. Dave Chandler who
often discusses the $30.00 land exchange had an opportunity to submit a proposal,
but instead he likes to take issues and boil them down to thirty second soundbites.
She further added that there was plenty of information available about the topic
and recommended that if Director Menten was very interested in the subject, she
should try to get involved with Arvada politics.

E. Next Meeting Date - September 5, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:11 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

