2020-06-30
GMO-GMES
PEGGY CATLIN: --circumstances that we find ourselves as a Board, not only because we have
an interim GM, but also because of the unprecedented circumstances due to the COVID-19
pandemic and our response to that.
So I was hoping that we could talk a little bit about how we proceed with an evaluation that's both
simpler and more relevant to our current situation than what has been done in the past.
We are already into the year by six months. In years past, it's been customary to evaluate the
General Manager on core goals as well as tasked goals with very, very specific, detailed metrics.
Those were last approved by this Board in July, 2019. And they had been drafted by Mr. Genova
and his SLT in April of 2019.
So is that is the last approved document that we have to move forward with a board. And I think
we can talk about this a little bit more. But when Mr. Ballard came in, he and the SLT took about
taking the goals that were developed during the SLT Board retreat this March and consolidating
them, making them a much more streamlined document, and presenting them to the Board. Those
were the task goals that came out of the retreat.
We, as a board, have not yet approved that. And in fact, they are being-- you've all seen the
previous draft that had been updated to reflect COVID-19 with regard to Communications, Safety,
Operations, and Financial, in addition to the five goals that had emerged from the-- or excuse me,
the four goals that had emerged from the retreat for 2020 and the subsequent five goals that had
emerged for 2021.
The thought was that we could use that as a guide rather than that which was passed in July of
2018, as we move forward in a slightly more expeditious manner and a more simple fashion to
evaluate Paul Ballard.
So without that, I don't know if I've provided enough background, but I'd like to hear some thoughts
from some of the other Directors. And I will start with Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Angie?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Yeah, you know what, I've spent a lot
of time looking at Mr. Ballard's contract, the goals, and reviewing the many meeting minutes from
our retreat. And so I think that we really are in such unprecedented times that it really merits us
taking a look at things differently than we did a year ago with Mr. Genova.
And I think that when we look at all of this stuff together and we look at that and understand that
our staff has been working for the last six months under the 2020 updated goals, it really merits us
to really kind of take a look and see how we move forward as a board, particularly as we're getting
ready to hire a permanent General Manager.

So I would just agree with Director Catlin. We really sat down with Mr. Ballard, took a look at it,
reviewed everything. And I'm really anxious to hear what all of you have to say and what you
might think in terms of simplifying this process.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I would like to add that previously we had
done a form of online evaluation that was conducted verbally by our personnel. And I'm not sure
we have the luxury of time, at this point, or the budget to conduct that exhaustive evaluation at this
point.
Director Buzek, your thoughts?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I agree with what you and Chair Rivera-Malpiede have
said. Some of the things I think I've heard is a desire to have Mr. Ballard a little more accessible
for meetings. And I have not experienced that. He's been accessible to me, and I appreciate that.
And perhaps a part of that is the result of the time spent on the COVID and the constant work and
response that requires.
But yeah, we are-- this is a different fish, so to speak. And I don't believe his contract really sets
forth any additional compensation based on review. So really, the purpose of the review is to, I
think, in moving forward before a permanent General Manager is installed, to have Mr. Ballard
work with us to the extent we feel is appropriate.
I think that's all I've got for now. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. And you brought up a good point. In past years-it wasn't necessarily true the last year of Mr. Genova's contract-- but previously, much of those
evaluation criteria were tied to evaluating bonus potential. And it's not the case here, nor is there
a case for providing incentive either for Mr. Ballard to stay or to go, since he will only be here for
another maybe four months. So I appreciate that.
And a number of the, especially the core goals that were outlined-- and John sent you all a sample
of that, and I recognize it was a little late-- a lot of those were developed by Mr. Genova. And so
even though they were the last approved document, I think we need to look at a path forward to
use something else.
Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Just to clarify, are we on-- so the first item after the call the order was the
evaluation form. Is that what we're-- is that what you're asking for thoughts on right here? I missed
something you said. I'm sorry. I'm not sure which part you want me to, you're asking for us to
comment on. Forgive me.
Did I drop off? Yeah.

PEGGY CATLIN: No, I was on mute. I'm sorry. I was on mute and I was answering your question,
and I apologize.
No, we're just talking kind of philosophy about moving forward with regard to evaluation of Paul
Ballard. Tied to that we can talk about in a minute, will be the sample evaluation form that I had
provided to all along with the Board packet.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. Well, speaking generally, I agree with you that the prior
year's process and goals and format don't seem appropriate now, or relevant as much. So I just
want to voice that agreement. I agree with the comments that have been offered already by Vince
Buzek and you and the Chair. And I guess as far as general issues, that's what I would voice right
now. Thank you.
Oh, one question, though. Are we going to try to pull in for Mr. Ballard the two-sheet summary
and the four plus two items that Judy Lubow and I had summarized from the first retreat? Have
you determined where that'll fit in? Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what, thank you for mentioning that. Because when Chair RiveraMalpiede and I met with Mr. Ballard, some of the things we talked-- he was operating under the
assumption that those were his marching orders. And there were three or four primary objectives
in that letter that was sent out.
But as Director Menten pointed out, that was not officially sanctioned by the whole Board. So
when we were talking to him, we said, you know, what we're really bound by is the contract. And
in the contract it states that his performance will be tied to certain core and task goals. So that
[CHIME].
But when you look at not only what you and Director Lubow prepared, but when you look at the
goals and you look at the contract, there's so much overlap that I don't think we're creating a
conflict.
Does that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin, let the record reflect that Director Williams has joined
us.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hello, Director Williams. Welcome.
We were just going over the first couple of items on the agenda and getting some feedback
regarding philosophy about how we evaluate our current Interim GM.
Director Menten, your thoughts.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. To summarize, versus the-- this is like two questions on the plate right
now. And the one is about the evaluation. And frankly, I'm pushing that aside for just a moment.
It's more about the goals and when we get to that discussion.
As I've mentioned a few times, I am concerned that when we had that discussion in 2019-- and we
do not have the detailed audio recording of that-- and we talked about equity. And that's still one
of our main goals. It has been morphed into now social equity. So that's really where my brain
keeps focusing, on a 2020 goal that morphed into something.
And when I recall the conversation, it was very much split. And actually, I would take a guess it
was much more of a regional equity discussion. And I don't know how we ended up where we did.
So the evaluation then is secondary. And I have much more open flexibility when it comes to how
we determine that and give the feedback to Paul and staff. Because it is organizational goals, not
just Paul's.
So those are-- that's one comment that I just am quite concerned about when we especially look at
our budget situation. You know, it seems to me we're turning into-- some want us to turn into
homeless unit and solve social issues. And we seem to be having challenges with just
transportation.
So that's the concern I did want to share again about the goals themselves and when we really have
that discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. And we are going to get to goals in Item D on
the agenda. But to that point, I would tell you that both Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I looked at the
minutes of our SLT Board retreat from which these updated goals were generated and summarized.
And the actual minutes do reflect a discussion of not only social equity, but geographic equity and
regional equity. And then there are a couple of other things that the detailed minutes are, you know,
they were so long that to consolidate them into some goals took some effort on part of the SLT.
But we did find, as we reviewed those goals, that somehow in the summary, the geographic equity
did get diluted a little bit.
So staff is in the process of preparing a draft that we will see in the upcoming Board packet. Or
Barbara, perhaps we can circulate a draft of some of the amended goals that reflect concerns such
as yours that were expressed as well as a couple of others. Is that correct, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So yes, so we did get a draft from Heather a little bit earlier today. But
I think that since you and the Chair had the conversation with General Manager Ballard that you
need to review it and see if it reflects the conversation that you had prior to us getting it to the rest
of the Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. The question is, should we get it to this committee first and then the rest
of the Board? Or, given the time constraint, just send it out to the rest of the Board?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I just want to make sure that it reflects what your conversation
was before anybody but you sees it, if that's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's fine. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I will discuss this after this
meeting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. I'm happy to get it out to this committee as soon as possible. But
I want to make sure that it's correct. Because my experience is particularly with having remote
meetings is if we have too many versions out there, then when we need to have a serious discussion
the right document's not in front of folks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Point well taken. Thank you.
Director Menten, does that answer your question? There will be more to come on that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. I'm good. And again, apologies that I have to leave at 2:30.
It's just one of those complications with a urgent pressing matter that came up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. This is Barbara McManus again. I just want to reflect that the
document that the Chair of the Committee and the Chair of the Board will be reviewing that we'll
be bringing forward on the 14th is the tactical goals from the tactical plan. It does not include any
of the core goals that Director Catlin was speaking of earlier.
So I just wanted to point that out there, that John sent the goals, including the core goals, out to
this committee yesterday so that they would have them in front of them. Because only the tactical
goals at this point are being brought forward on the 14th.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Barbara. So as I reviewed those core goals and along with the
tactical goals, most of the tactical goals do fall under the broader category of the core goals, but
the actual metrics associated with those core goals probably are no longer relevant. That's my
personal opinion. But I would encourage you all to look at them and see what your thoughts are
on that as well.
But Director Menten, you are still philosophically OK with proceeding on a simpler vein than what
we had done before, given our time constraints and circumstances?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. I don't know how much effort AND time it did take to do a Survey
Monkey. So with, I guess then the question becomes how do we best use time and have the Board
of Directors share in a hard copy their concrete thoughts on where we're at and how we're doing
and where we should be going, and not make it a 2 and 1/2 hour meeting, if that would be [AUDIO
OUT] of it.
So that's a question I-- Survey Monkey is not a horrible thing to deal with with 15 people doing
the survey. So I guess I'm looking for some feedback as to what would be the process on that.
Thanks.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And if you have to drop off before we have that conversation, I'll try and
get back to you later.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: If that's [AUDIO OUT].
All right, Director Guissinger, your thoughts?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I like the idea of some of what's been stated before. Yes, going
with something simpler rather than what we did in reviewing Dave Genova's goals and all of that.
You said we're going to look at the goals afterwards. I'm kind of confused. I'm looking at this
document that's 2020 Updated Goals. You know, we're in such a weird time, for two reasons.
We've got the pandemic and the world is changing, our projections are changing, all of that. And
Paul Ballard is here temporarily. So I guess I would look at this as how we make the most of his
time.
I have not gone back to look at the contract or the-- I guess I looked at the two-pager not too long
ago. But just looking at these updated goals, I guess my comment is mostly pretty good. I think
that really our job is to set the objectives. And then the key results that travel for them, I think
we've had some input from the staff on.
But some of these-- just give an example, and maybe I need to talk about this more later-- but for
instance, under COVID-19 financial, we don't really state an objective. It seems to me like the
objective would be make decisions that prepare for projected shortfalls based on the principles that
the Board is going to adopt in another week or whenever that is.
And then there are task goals underneath that. But in some of these, I think that the objective is
important and in some of these, under, for instance, strengthen transparent public communication,
I think we're missing a number of important task goals. Should I get into that later?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, if you don't mind, we can go-- when we talk about the review of the final
goals under agenda item D, then maybe we can talk about those then, if you don't mind.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. That's fine. Thanks. That's all I have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: So I kind of feel like [AUDIO OUT] still [AUDIO OUT] some of the [AUDIO
OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry, Director Walker, you're really breaking up and I'm only catching
about every third word.

JEFF WALKER: OK. Is this any better? I'll just say Mary had a little lamb. Its fleece was white
as snow. Everywhere that Mary-PEGGY CATLIN: It's a little better.
JEFF WALKER: A little better?
PEGGY CATLIN: It's a little better, still a little garbled, though.
JEFF WALKER: Let me try another part of the house. So what I am thinking is that I think the
goals are still applicable, but the tasks, the tasks are [AUDIO OUT]. And if we don't want to revisit
[AUDIO OUT] tasks [AUDIO OUT]. But I think the goals are still, I think the goals are still solid,
the four goal [AUDIO OUT]. Those are things that we still want [AUDIO OUT]. And if there is
no second wave, [AUDIO OUT] first wave. But if things get closer to normal, [AUDIO OUT] and
what we expect now then we would still want to see [AUDIO OUT] that would get as close to
being [AUDIO OUT] as possible.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. It was very garbled for me to hear. Maybe others heard better than I. But
I think what I heard you say is in that document that was approved in 2000-- July of 2019, the
basic core goals still apply. It's just the metrics and the tactical goals associated with them that are
out of date. Is that correct.
JEFF WALKER: Correct. Yeah. I'll call in. I'm on the computer now. Sorry about that. I'll call in
and [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We'll circle back around and catch you in a minute.
JEFF WALKER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Now we have two non-committee members on the phone. And thank you
for taking the time to join us. Director Folska, your thoughts?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Catlin. You know, I really appreciate all the effort that
everybody has gone through in 2019 to figure out the core goals and the task goals. For me, I think
it's pretty much irrelevant for now for Mr. Ballard in particular. He is really only here for a few
months. He's been here four months. If he is here another four or five months, it's eight or nine
months.
You know, I think the piece that everybody's talking about now seems like it needs to be revised
for the permanent position definitely. But in terms of evaluating Mr. Ballard, there are some pretty
straightforward goals, opening the North line, getting us a permanent General Manager, and what
other things. And then there's the pandemic to consider.
And by the way, we never gave our General Manager a bonus. It was called a DPP. I forget what
DPP stands for. I'm sure that Barbara and John remember something for performance. And that's
not even a-- discretionary performance payment, that's what it was, based on achieving certain

goals. And I don't think that's even part of the conversation. It's whatever it is. That's my
understanding.
So if we're opening that North line on September 21, that was the date he gave us. We're going
back to revenue service tomorrow. I think that especially with the pandemic, I mean, I don't even
know what the criteria would be for evaluating that.
And then at the end of the day, do we get someone who's a candidate that is going to be a permanent
General Manager for RTD in the coming years that's going to really help see this agency forward.
So I'd put my energy into that.
But that's just my thoughts. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Folska. And one of the things that Chair Rivera-Malpiede
and I spoke with Paul about was that as we move forward with the goals, which we need to do in
the next couple of weeks, it would be important to share those with candidates in the discussion
and the interviews to find out how they would best address those goals.
So I think you very succinctly stated what I've been aiming for. And that is let's simplify the process
for Mr. Ballard, given the short timeframe, and then move toward devoting our energies for getting
the right person in place for the permanent position. So thanks for stating that so well.
Did someone else join the Call
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think it's Director Walker dialing in.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Perfect.
All right. Director Williams, your thoughts.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hold on. Unmute. Unmute. Unmute. Mute, unmute. Am I here now?
PEGGY CATLIN: I hear you now.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, it only took me 16 minutes to sign in.
So I think that Director Folska's points were all pretty much spot on, I think that we're in a different
world. I think that Mr. Ballard is only a temporary employee and should not be held to the same
criteria as our permanent General Manager. I think he's done a phenomenal job in a game where
there's no playbook.
So I think that what we should be looking at now is what kind of a job we think he's done in a short
term basis. And are we looking at these goals to then transpose to a permanent employee? I think
they need to be two separate discussions myself.
That's probably all I have to say as a gate crasher. Thanks, everybody.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Williams. Appreciate your comment.
Director Walker, I'm circling back to you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: One moment he's asked for. There you go.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Yeah, thanks. So yeah, what I was trying to get at was the goals are the
agency's goals, and we rate the GM on how the agency meets those goals. And they're not
necessarily his or her goals.
So I like the goals as they are. The tactical plan will need some modification. But I still think we
should at least have those goals, set those goals. And if we don't meet them, then we explain why
they weren't met. But I think that we should leave the goals as are. Because if we keep moving-if we move the goalpost, then we don't really know how we did and why we didn't perform as we
intended. Or if we do meet goals, they've been changed. So now we don't know that we met them
because they don't exist anymore.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Director Walker. And that was a much clearer, from an audio
perspective. I appreciate that.
JEFF WALKER: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: I provided a sample to you of something that is a little different and more
simplified in terms of evaluating Mr. Ballard on what would be, I think we can use just the broader
heading of the core goals and then the updated 2020 goals that includes the COVID-19
communications.
And the sample was, rather than, as you saw in the metrics for the adopted 2019 document that
Mr. Genova had that had a series of evaluation criteria that required that you meet maybe all five
of five bullets, otherwise you failed a goal, I am leaving this a little bit more subjective as my
sample and just said, you have the overall goal-- for example, COVID-19 communication. And
then you have provide daily communications to Board and staff, provide enhanced employee
communication.
Each one of those four bullets would have that you strongly agree that he met that goal, you
somewhat agree, or you agree, you neither disagree or agree, you disagree, or you strongly
disagree, scale of 1 to 5. And then there's an opportunity to provide comment and then an overall
aggregate goal for that, or overall aggregate score for that particular goal.
So that was just the sample that I came up with. And if it is possible to do it in Survey Monkey,
I'm sure we could. I just wanted to-- it was my attempt at a draft to simplify our process. And so
thoughts on that particular form?
And actually, I'm doing a time check here. We have about 22 more minutes on this call.

Why don't I go through the list once again just to see what people's thoughts are on that particular
sample or if you have another idea.
Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Yeah, I like the concept of something along those lines, simplified in a
Survey Monkey format would be easier for us to do. But yeah, I think that makes sense. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have to agree with Mr. Secretary
Buzek that we need to really keep in mind that the way that we can get this done expediently is
more specific. I really like that we have the five options as opposed to three. I think that this will
help us move this forward pretty easily. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: We're just talking about the format of the rating, the little matrix here, correct?
And so if that's the case, I agree, it works. And I'm hoping that with the Survey Monkey especially,
you can also include the comment [INAUDIBLE].
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, thank you, Director Cook. The sample was only because I was too lazy
to try and put all of the goals in if it was a non-starter. So it was really just a sample and then we
can populate it with the other goals as they're approved or developed.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. Thanks. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: And then you the idea was after the July 14 meeting that we would go ahead
and have Mr. Ballard do a self-evaluation based on that form. And the board members would do
an evaluation with that. And per the contract, he reports to the Chair or the Chair's designee.
And so Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I would then sit down with him and go over the evaluation and
provide some feedback to him. And if we needed to do any kind of course correction for the next
few months and proceed with hiring the General Manager, then we'd have that dialogue with him.
So I did believe Director Menten is no longer on the call. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'm fine with the new form. Thanks for putting that together, the
new plan. I think that that works well.
Can I-- I'm preparing for our second, and I'm confused, are the 2020 updated goals the same as the
tactical goals that are coming to the Board? I'm trying to figure out where we're coming [AUDIO
OUT].

PEGGY CATLIN: The 2020 updated goals that you've already seen are going to be adjusted
slightly with two points. And one is to augment the equity piece to include geographic equity, and
the other one is to, instead of just limiting the FasTracks unfunded corridors plan, to actually update
the FasTracks plan, in light of the efforts with the Reimagine process.
Those are the two main pieces that are going to be added. But the rest of the goals, at this point,
are not going to be substantively changed unless you'll have some comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And then there's also, as a part of that-- I think this is what you sent me-there's also 2021 goals. Is that up for adoption on the 14th?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara McManus? Yes, I believe so.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I mean, am I-- are we at a point where I could still comment? I go through
these and I have a lot of concerns about them. Not right now. But I mean, is it-- I just feel like
we're missing some of the objectives and some of the significant other pieces. Is there a way to
still suggest modifications in a few minutes or whenever?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. We can do that. Actually, I just need to touch back with Directors Walker,
Folska, and Williams, and then we can move on to the timeline process and the [INTERPOSING
VOICES] goals.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I'm not trying to rush it. I'm just trying to figure out what document
we're looking at and where we are on it. Thanks. Appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Yeah, I think it's fine how it is, with the five options instead of fewer. But
what really has helped me over the years, and what I think it's helped the GMs over the years in
their reviews, has been the comments. The year that I chaired, I found it difficult. And other years,
when I was just an observer, when I wasn't on the committee, I also found it difficult to understand
or to get anything from the ratings without substantive comments.
Sometimes folks, some respondents would complain about the goal. They would make comments
on the goal rather than the performance of the agency to meet that goal. And that doesn't really
provide any benefit to the GM or staff in how to achieve that goal or what they could be doing
better.
So the number of-- or I wouldn't want to say-- the number of degrees of agreement, 5, 3, 20, 1,000,
doesn't matter. What's really important, what's really, really important, I almost say it doesn't
matter, but what's really, really important is the substance of the comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. That's why I added that section in there.

Director Folska, your thoughts? Were you done, Director Walker? I apologize.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I'm done. Thank you for asking.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Yes, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I think it's good. And I agree with Director Walker,
it is helpful to have the comment boxes. Make them required, no, I wouldn't do that. But as long
as they're there and optional, I think it can be very informative. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Folska. And finally, Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, she sent me a text that she's ringing off.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. All right. Well then in terms of timing, I mentioned that we would be
sitting down with Mr. Ballard after receipt of the Board's comments and evaluations, and we would
go over that with him. And it was our hope that we would have this done by the end of July. So
that, from the time that we consider the goals on July 14 and then get the survey out, and with just
a few days turnaround time get them back, assemble them and then set up a meeting with Mr.
Ballard, then hopefully we'll have that done by the end of July.
If there are any comments on that, I'd like to move on to the goals, if that's OK with everyone?
OK. As I mentioned, and Barbara did as well, the tactical goals are being adjusted with a couple
of factors. And that stemmed from review of the meeting minutes from our SLT Board retreat.
Those will be-- Barbara, can you speak to when those might go out after the Chair and I review
those and get back to you tomorrow?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. As soon as I get the word, I can forward them.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So given the fact that Thursday is a furlough day and Friday's a holiday,
tomorrow's the only day we have this week to get those out so that we can receive comments from
the Board prior to the packet going out a week from Thursday. Is that correct, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We will have a packet going out on Thursday.
PEGGY CATLIN: And on the agenda will be the goals.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. So that packet will not go out until next Thursday?
PEGGY CATLIN: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. And it would need to have the goals as you and the Chair approve
them, based on your conversation with Paul Ballard. We would need to also include the

measurement mechanism that is being changed for not only the tactical goals but the core goals,
so that everything moving forward is approved at the same time because all three of those elements
are changing from what was approved previously.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And given the fact that we have about 12 more minutes on this call, if I
might suggest that rather than delving into the individual goals themselves, if you all, just
committee-- and I know particularly Director Guissinger has some concerns about these goals-- if
you could get those captured and unto us, or else even give us a call to talk about it within the next
day so that we can get a more complete draft to circulate among Board members by close of
business tomorrow, I think that would be good.
But if there are some particular goals right now that could be adjusted as we're talking, why don't
we have a brief discussion about that? Director Guissinger, since you have expressed concerns,
would you mind finding citing of the specific concerns that you have?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Thanks. And I'll spend a little more time with it. But I'm just thinking
about this sort of a management approach that's set objectives and then key results. And we sort
of do that with the core goals and the tactical goals. I think we could refer, as a results thing, might
be easier.
But in our main goals for 2020-- this shows up in COVID-- but in our main goals for 2020 and for
2021, we don't have any financial goals. We don't have an objective. And to me, the objective
needs to prepare for projected shortfalls in 2021, based on the principles that the Board is about to
adopt. That would be one good way to make our principles significant in the operations.
And I feel like, I'm looking at 2021 goals and they're so bare bones. And I think that just need to
look at what the objective is on each of these and if we're reaching the goal. I think in
communication, we talk about our communication among employees-- this is in the 2020 goals-are actually better in 2021, because in 2020 we don't have anything that talks about proactive
stakeholder public input, working with our stakeholders and government partners and all of those
things.
And I'd also like to see a goal for communicating with the Board. And maybe it's implement-- and
I'm not speaking to this specifically about what's happening now, because I think the pandemic,
Paul was setting up lunches or meetings with people and the pandemic came along. But I still think
that one-on-one meetings with all the Board would be helpful for the rest of the time he's here.
And I certainly think for someone new coming in, and I think Dave had that goal of continuing
meetings. Doesn't have to be, you know, not saying weekly or anything, but at least a starter
meeting.
So I do have some other suggestions, and I can spend a little time and shoot them to you before,
what'd you say, the end of the day? Or I can't do it probably today, but I probably can by tomorrow.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

PEGGY CATLIN: [AUDIO OUT] day tomorrow. One thought that I have-- oh, excuse me, was
somebody trying to respond?
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: If we could have them by noon tomorrow, because we have to get them
to folks to be thinking about what those changes might be. And would we also get a copy of those
to Mike Meader? Because the packet will already be going out before Paul's back from his
vacation, I think.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can get them to you by noon tomorrow, if that's my question.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just to wrap up, though.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might-- Director Cook, I'll get you in a second. But these were distilled
from the actual meeting minutes from our SLT Board retreat where we all agreed upon this goal.
So I will make sure that as we take back some of these suggestions that they were at least captured
in those meeting minutes, rather than maybe introducing something altogether new. Is that
reasonable?
LYNN GUISSINGER: If I could respond really quickly. You know, those two that I've mentioned,
not having a financial goal, I don't know that, I can't even recall back in the meeting times. I mean,
we were still looking at some tough financial times. But you know, our GM Interim, and certainly
the incoming one, needs to be-- he or she needs to have some financial objectives and targets, task
goals to hit it, don't you think?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't doubt that there are things in there. But I just wanted to make sure that
we have already and at some point as a Board talked about those. And Director Cook, because we
are-- I apologize for rushing everybody. We're running out of time.
SHELLEY COOK: I know it. And I've been waiting for this moment. And now it's crowded into
a few seconds.

I agree with the concern that some of these are not focused on results. They are activities which I
guess are useful to know, but they don't reflect outcomes. And so think-- and also, I would just
urge that the first retreat was meant to inform the second retreat. We shouldn't just discard those
discussions. Because some of what we included as the objectives for Paul Ballard specifically
include, for example, holding listening sessions.
The communications bullet you have talk about one-way communication only, providing
communication. But a key point we wanted to emphasize to him was the importance of listening
to people. And I've heard that come up multiple times, not just with the Board members, but with
people in the community and so forth. So I think let's pull in some of the points that were kind of
hard won in discussion on that first retreat in order to inform these updated goals.
And regarding the financial, we had analyze budget issues. And we wanted a specific independent
review an assessment of where we are. And that's more important than ever with the COVID
situation. So I'd like to join Lynn Guissinger in what she's urging. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. And I think you're spot on about pointing back to
the discussions that we did have at both just the Board retreat and the Board SLT retreat to make
sure that we, in light of current circumstances, capture some of those thoughts.
But if you could provide some of-- if you could provide your comments as well, I'd appreciate it.
And we can certainly have dialogue in the morning.
And again, I apologize for rushing. Are there any other matters? Hearing none, we have not yet
scheduled our next meeting, I don't believe, but we will be doing that in the next few days. At the
very least, we may want to have a meeting prior to the 14th to discuss this final evaluation process.
Barbara, is that possible?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We will get back to you with that. And again, I apologize for the rush. But
please provide any comments on these goals, both 2020 and 2021 tactical goals, by noon tomorrow.
With that, we are adjourned at 2:57 PM. Thank you all.
And we will be joining shortly for the study session.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Peggy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Bye.

