Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 17, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

June 17, 2010

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 17, 2010
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Second Vice-Chair Busck, Secretary Bagley & Treasurer
Tayer.
Subject:

I.

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp and Vice-Chair Martinez

Other Board Members
Present:

Director Malpiede, Director Daly (via teleconference)

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, Phil Washington

Call to Order:

Second Vice Chair Busck called the meeting to order at
12:10 p.m.

Recommended Action: State Legislative Liaison Services
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve
moving the recommended action for the State
Legislative liaison services forward to the full
Board for approval at the June 22, 2010
meeting.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

New Item: Marla Lien, General Counsel brought a new item before the
committee for permission to add to the FasTracks agenda tonight, 6/17/10,
for action to modify an existing resolution pertaining to TIFF/RIFIA.
Motion:

Second Vice Chair Busck, Acting Chair for the
Executive Committee, made a motion to move
this item to the June Board agenda contingent
upon being passed by the FasTracks Committee
tonight, June 17, 2010.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 17, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 5
Director Tayer seconded the motion.
Vote on
the Motion:
II.

The Motion PASSED.

June Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Phil Washington presented the June Board meeting agenda.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move the
June Board meeting agenda as amended to the
full Board for vote on June 22, 2010.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


Amendment to RTD Defined Contribution Plan and increase in RTD
Administrative Contribution for All Plan Participants
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors (i) amend the RTD
Defined Contribution Plan to provide for participation by the General
Manager in accord with the General Manager’s Employment
Agreement; and (ii) increase its administrative contribution to the plan
to provide payment of investment management fees for all plan
participants from $25,000 to $35,000 per year.



Dataman, USA (Dataman) IT Work Order Contract Increase of
Contract Value Not-to-Exceed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to execute all documents necessary to increase the contract value
not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with Dataman USA for IT
Technical and Management Support Services $350,000 to extend the
current work order contract IT Technical and Management Support
for General Software Development Life-Cycle Services and Migration
of Legacy Software (17DK001). This contract was originally awarded
May 1st, 2007 to Dataman USA, LLC (a DBE/SBE company) through
the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year
plus four one year options to renew based on positive performance by
the vendor. In order to continue the 3rd year option additional
funding must be added to the contract not to exceed. The proposed
action increases the current contract not-to-exceed limit of $565,000
by $350,000 to a new total contract not-to-exceed limit of
$915,000.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 17, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 5


Ciber, Inc. (Ciber) IT Contingency Work Order Contract Increase of
Contract Value Not-To-Exceed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to execute all documents necessary to increase the contract value
not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with Ciber for IT Technical
and Management Support Services (Contract 15DK008).
This
contract was originally awarded in 2006 to Ciber through a
competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial-year plus
four (4) one-year options to be renewed based on positive
performance by the vendor. The final option has been executed and
the period of performance extended to April 24, 2011. The proposed
action increases the current contract not-to-exceed limit of
$2,550,000.00 by $500,000.00 to a new total contract not-toexceed limit of $3,050,000.00.



State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement
(for state legislative liaison services) with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (July 1, 2010
through June 30, 2011) to extend Contract No. 17-DX-001, at a cost
of $101,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.



FasTracks Fare Collection Contract Award to Scheidt & Bachmann
USA, Inc.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract for the
FasTracks Fare Collection Project (Ticket Vending Machines) to
Scheidt & Bachmann USA, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed
$14,000,000.00.
Funding for this project is included in each
FasTracks corridor’s budget.



Recommendation for Contract with the Union Pacific Railroad for
Advance Relocation Work In the Vicinity of Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a
contract with the Union Pacific Railroad (UP) for reimbursement of
design, material acquisition and construction necessary to relocate UP
tracks in the vicinity of Denver Union Station (DUS), in an amount not
to exceed $600,000. This work in advance of a comprehensive
agreement for relocation of UP on the East Corridor is necessary due
to construction at DUS that is impacting the adjacent UP property.
Funding for this relocation is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget
for the East Corridor project.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 17, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 5



Recommended Action


III.

Approval of August 22, 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the August 22, 2010 Service
Change package as revised and summarized on Attachment A
resulting in a net annualized cost savings of approximately
$1,168,000, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.

Status of Follow-up for State Auditors
General Manager Phil Washington provided an update on the follow-up for the
State Auditors which will be sent out on Monday, June 21, 2010. A copy of
this response will be provided to the Board members.
He also shared the status of Phase II of the audit which will focus on our cost
allocation model. A RFP was sent out with three responses at a cost well
exceeding our budgeted amount. He has requested Scott Reed and the Audit
Manager try to negotiate a better arrangement based on a re-examination of
the scope of work.
Several ideas were tossed around related to this Phase II including the
possibility for a facilitated roundtable discussion of the union and staff around
the cost model concerns.

IV.

Other Matters
Director Busck indicated the Board needs to look collectively at the potential
$300 million from the P3 to look at where to best spend the funds. He also
stated that the General Manager and Board should begin to think strategically
about having conversations with the Obama Administration, FTA and other
entities on what we can do to advance/leverage our role in PPP to the
advantage of all and to continue to seek out additional funds. General Manager
Washington added he believed there will be an opportunity in the coming
months for RTD to go back to Washington/Congress as well as other major
sites who are looking for innovative and sustainable alternatives for transit
funding.
Director Tayer suggested the best approach is to hold off any discussion until
the financial analysis has been completed. Director Bagley indicated his
interest was in looking at the best use of the funds that will have the greater
good and after staff has had a chance to study and think about this. General
Manager Washington added the staff will be looking at the best technical use
of whatever is left with a focus on job creation and shovels in the ground.
Public Information (PI)—Director Busck expressed there is an opportunity to

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 17, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 5
beef up our public information as a number of people are still complaining that
they are not being informed. We need to think outside the box on how to
reach the people and making sure the corridors are informed.
General Manager Washington stated that one of the questions he asks is how
do people get their information. The PI has done extensive outreach through
various venues so he is interested in ascertaining who are the people we are
missing and how do they get their information. Perhaps this is a question for
the survey.
Director Malpiede made a suggestion to utilize the TMAs and similar agencies
to help get the word out.
Scott Reed will also be asked to provide monthly or ongoing updates on their
progress.
DUS—Executive Committee wanted to know the latest update on the dewatering issue. General Manager Washington indicated they are working this
and will probably have an update at the FasTracks meeting.
Director Tayer also asked a procedural question of how to handle or properly
dispose of the boatload of confidential information that the Board receives.
Could the General Counsel have a dispenser of sorts where these could be
properly discarded following the Executive Session?
V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:10 p.m.

