2025-07-10
Audit Committee
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. The Thursday, July 10 Audit Committee will now come to order. We're
convened as of 2:01 PM. I respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you
are recognized to speak. Please note that Committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held
remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who wants access
to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page. I'm going to now call the roll for the Committee. Vice Chair Brendel?
JIM BRENDEL: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Vince Buzek is here. Bobby Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: John Olenberger?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. For the record, I see we have all members of the Committee present. And I believe
over the executive session, we probably have some other Directors. So now we're going to turn to public
comment. I'd like to open the public comment session to anyone who'd like to address this Committee
regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding
month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press Star-9
on your phone.
During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com.
Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised or any public comment?
JACK KROLL: Chair Buzek, there are no hands raised and no communication was sent ahead of time with
respect to public comment for this meeting.

VINCE BUZEK: OK. Well, seeing no participants online or in the queue, we will close the public comment
period at this time. Next on our agenda is recommended actions, and there are no recommended actions
today. Next is discussion item-- oh, I wanted to stop for a minute. Vice Chair Brendel, thank you very much
for filling in last month. I thanked you at our Board meeting. I want to thank you here as well.
JIM BRENDEL: Oh, you're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, great. Discussion items. There's one discussion item regarding the results of our
internal auditor assessment of our cybersecurity systems compliance with national best standards. Given
the sensitive nature of those conversations, the Committee will review the results in executive session in a
few moments. We'll move on to other matters before we move on to the executive session. Are there any
other matters that need to be discussed?
OK. Seeing none, as a reminder, the next meeting-- there are no meetings scheduled for the month of
August. Our next Audit Committee meeting is currently scheduled for Thursday, September 11. In a
moment, the Committee will meet in executive session regarding a cybersecurity assessment.
I would like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the Committee meeting will
be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session. For public transparency, this means that
once the Committee moves into executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned. I will now entertain
a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following.
Pursuant to Section 24-6-402(4)(d) CRS, specialized details of security arrangements. And Section 24-72204(2)(a)(VII)(a) CRS, specialized details of physical and cyber assets of critical infrastructure, protective
measures, emergency response plans, or system operational data of such assets that would be useful to a
person in planning an attack on critical infrastructure.
Section 24-6-402(4)(c) CRS, matters required to be kept confidential by federal law. And 49 CFR Parts 15
and 1520, sensitive security information for discussion of internal auditor RubinBrown LLP's National
Institute of Standards and Technology 2.0 Cybersecurity Framework and Transportation Security
Administration Directive 1582-21-01b compliance assessment. Do I have a motion?
JOHN OLENBERGER: So moved. Hopefully, I don't need to repeat the-VINCE BUZEK: Please repeat the motion.
[LAUGHTER]

Is there a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Any discussion at all? OK. So we're going to move into executive session now, so we
will exit this meeting. Has everybody received the-- Bobby and Jim, have you received the email for the
executive session?
JIM BRENDEL: Yes, I did. Thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: OK, good, good. So we'll exit here, and we'll meet you-MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Mr. Chair. Just for the record, no one's opposed to that motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I don't know if you can hear the rain lashing against my window
here. Are there any no votes on the motion? Seeing none, this meeting is adjourned. We'll move into
executive session now. Thanks. Oh.

