April 2, 2019
Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee
JUDY LUBOW: Directors approved the attached resolution, series 2019, as substituted by the
form of resolution submitted to Board members by email on April 1, 2019. A copy of which is
also placed at each Director's seat regarding RTD Board commitment for finishing FasTracks and
supporting the Peak Service Plan for Northwest Rail as presented to the Planning Capital Programs
and FasTracks Committee.
This recommendation addresses General Manager's 2019 goals as follows. Core Goal Number
Two, strong and ethical leadership. Core Goal Number Three, strong financial management. Core
Goal Number Five, effective communications and community outreach. Task Goal Number Three,
ensure fiscal sustainability. And Task Goal Number Four, address future transportation needs and
methods. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. We have Chair Tisdale and Director Whitmore. Chair Tisdale, would you
like to present on this?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity. You have
before you the substitute motion that we have indicated in the main motion, is the one that we will
be discussing. You also received the red line that showed that there were some minor modifications
made, many of them editorial or grammatical in nature. None that were significantly substantive,
I submit.
And so therefore, we feel that the public, as well as you all, have had adequate and sufficient notice
regarding this. The question has arisen, why do we need such a resolution. After all, FasTracks
was adopted in 2004. We had a resolution reaffirming our commitment to complete FasTracks in
2011.
Here we are in 2019. Do we really need another resolution to express this? And I would suggest
that there are some things that in fact bear repeating. There are some things that in fact bear
highlighting. Our commitment is one of those things.
There has been a dialogue from a number of elected officials to the effect that the RTD Board has
given up on FasTracks. There have been comments that Directors don't believe it will ever be done.
We need to remind people, we made a promise and we intend to keep it.
And if this is, in effect, simply in some people's minds a pandering to the naysayers, perhaps it is.
I think it is far more substantive than that. It is far more substantive because it also gives us the
opportunity to ratify and reaffirm the tremendous work that our staff has done in the

implementation. Let us not forget that yesterday in this room-- well, next door, I guess, or
whatever, in the atrium-- there was an announcement of monumental significance-- the opening of
the long awaited G Line.
And we have-- and that to be April 26th. And we have on May the 17th, the opening of the
Southeast rail extension. We've been working hard on getting FasTracks implemented. We have
had some issues that are addressed in this resolution.
The issues that we address don't constitute an apology on our part. They don't constitute some kind
of list of excuses. It's a categorization of clauses. That's all. But it's important to categorize those
causes, to catalog those causes. That explanation is an explanation that I personally delivered by
hand to Congressman Jared Polis almost exactly one year ago when we sat in his office.
Because the year before, he had yelled at me and said that the RTD Board had abdicated its
responsibilities, didn't understand what it was supposed to do, and had no commitment to
FasTracks. Because obviously, we hadn't done anything. And I advised him at that time in the first
meeting two years ago, that was not the case.
I went back to him last year and brought a longer version of this one clause in the resolution that
explained these factors. His response to me was, OK. I get it. I understand that. I can accept that.
Now, what are you going to do about it? That's, in effect, what the Governor invited us to consider
in his letter that he sent to us just two weeks ago. What are you going to do about it? Now we have
something to say as to what we're going to do about it.
You will note that in addition to the letter from the Governor that was in part a prompt for this, we
also have a letter from the US 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition, dated March 29, that was
sent to Director Lubow. That is found on the dais.
We have had expressions of support from a number of electeds throughout the region. I know that
we have a city councilor from Longmont who is also present with us here this evening. And we
don't take public comment, but we note your present councilor because it's important to
acknowledge that.
And it is an opportunity for us here and now, and I'll be happy-- I am about done. I'll be happy to
respond to questions as they may come up. And we may even have questions for staff at some
point. But the notion behind this is, let's have staff come back to us in two months and talk about
these two things.
Number one, what kind of new thoughts might we have as to funding opportunities relative to the
completion of all of FasTracks. Number two, what are the options open to us regarding Peak Rail
Service and how might we plan out something for proceeding forward? As I said at the beginning,
some things bear repeating. Some things bear highlighting.

I believe that this Board's unqualified commitment to complete the program approved by the voters
and promised to the voters by this Board and by all of RTD deserves repeating. And this is a good
time to do it. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And I want to personally thank you for all the work
that you have done on this resolution and pushing it forward. Thank you very much. OK, Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: When I read this resolution, I was thinking back several years when I served on
the Aurora City Council. And at that point in time, we were all kind of under the impression that
it would probably 20 years before the R Line would ever get built. It was a big fight that went on
to see who is going to be first in line, because you wanted to get your line done before RTD ran
out of money.
Well, lo and behold, the R Line did get funded. And it did get done about 18 years faster than what
we originally thought it might be. And so when I first got on this Board, I made a public statement
that it was a priority of mine that we pulled our contract with the voters who approved the FasTrack
system that we build the system out. And that's been my thrust since I've been on this Board.
So as I think it was mentioned earlier, I don't know that we really need this resolution. Because I
think everybody on this Board is under the impression that as soon as we can, we will build that
line up to Longmont. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I would agree with Chair Tisdale, with the
comments that he made. And I would not be in support of this if I thought for one moment that we
were trying to make excuses for delay and things like that. And in fact, that's not at all what we are
doing.
Because in fact, the clause immediately following the clause that talks about the capital challenges
says that notwithstanding all those, we are committed to move FasTracks forward and to complete
all of the unfinished corridors in a timely fashion. So I'm in support of this resolution. I hope the
Board can get behind it. For the reasons stated by Chair Tisdale, I think it makes a lot of sense.
Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. All right. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree with Director Broom. We are just reiterating
what was promised a number of years ago. But for the record, I'd like to say that that RTD is
embarking on this new T2 initiative, which is going to be looking at optimization of rail and bus
service, among other things, as we move forward.
And I just wanted to say that for the record, some of these things, in terms of cost and performance
and everything, may change as a result of that. I wouldn't say change, but may be reconsidered as
a result of that study. I'm not saying that we would not complete FasTracks, but I just want to make

sure that we remembered what our core mission is for the overall mobility of the region. Thank
you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll be brief. But I just want to offer my support that this will reinvigorate
the effort. And I know it's been ongoing. I think General Manager Genova and Chair Tisdale have
done a great job keeping the effort moving. And I want to thank them and thank you, Director
Lubow, for all your work in keeping this going.
And just to point out that the letter from the Mayors and Commissioners represents all of those
local governments from Westminster up in the Northwest Corridor.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a couple of questions. And as much as this
states that the Peak Service Plan would provide rush hour service to the Northwest Corridor,
including three trains from Longmont to Denver in the morning and three trains from Denver to
Longmont in the afternoon. And I'm assuming that those are based on some kind of a partnership
with Burlington Northern Santa Fe using existing tracks and are not contingent on building new
rail service there. That's my first interest.
And secondly, I understand that FasTracks is something that we committed to and that we, as an
organization, continue to commit to. But it is only one part of our commitment. The bulk of our
commitment is to provide service within the region that RTD serves. And right now, we have
routes where bus service is being dropped, where there are less cars on trains than can be used,
where we are not able to extend our service where we have paired transit services that are behind.
And so, I personally feel that we don't need to say this. I think we need to say that our commitment
is to serving all of the people in this region with the best service that we can provide, that it's not
necessarily a rail service to Longmont. That it could be a bus to Jefferson County, that it could be
an additional car on the R Line. And so I am not in favor of this resolution in any way. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I did want to respond to the one specific
question relative to the Peak Rail Service Plan. And the answer is that, yes, it would be intended
to use existing trackacke of Burlington Northern, which is why the resolution speaks about the
necessity of getting further information from Burlington Northern, which the Governor has also
pledged to assist in that communication outreach effort. Hopefully his words would be well
received by Burlington Northern. We'll see. But it is something worthwhile in that regard.
Madam Chair, if I may, I do want to, at this time-- because I think we've exhausted much of the
discussion here-- to offer one amendment to the substitute resolution. And if you would look at
the sixth whereas clause in the resolution-- the sixth whereas clause reads whereas a variety of

factors created substantial changes and challenges and increased capital cost in the FasTracks
program following the 2004 voter approval of said program, which factors included inter alia.
And skipping to B as in boy-- it reads the decision that all of the trains be electric powered rather
than diesel powered-- I'll respectfully offer an amendment to my own motion. And that is that we
insert the words "but one" after the word "all." So that it would read, the decision that all but one.
And then it continues, of the trains be electric power rather than diesel powered.
That is to address the fact that the Northwest rail line was in fact originally intended-- pursuant to
the FasTracks proposal-- to be a diesel line. It did not change. It was not converted to an electric
line in the plans after FasTracks was passed for the simple reason that Burlington Northern advised
that if we wished to do that and to build a catenary system that would provide the power to the
electric train, that we would have to rebuild all of the infrastructure associated with the Burlington
Northern tracks, such as rebuilding bridges and so forth. And for that reason, we did not.
So my motion at this time is to insert the words, "but one" between the words "all" and "of" in
Clause B of the 6th whereas clause. And I would ask for a second.
SPEAKER 4: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: So we have a motion and a second on that. If I may just indicate, I've spoken
to the amendment. And I have no further comments to add on the amendment.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Is there anybody that does not approve the amendment?
SHELLEY COOK: I do not.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
JUDY LUBOW: So we're going to have to have a discussion. Yes, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: You know, so this particular whereas clause has been the subject of a lot of
back and forth among different ones of us. And sort of in the course of that, I think it was Director
Buzek said, you know, actually this is kind of a distraction relative to the point of the whole
resolution. The whereases generally provide sort of an accessory function.
They lead the way to the gist of the resolution. And I realize that this great amount of discussion
that we have had may signal a similar concern among our intended audiences. I would almost
prefer that this piece-- this actual whereas clause-- be deleted versus let's continue to work on the
words that will address all the different issues that come up when we read it.
So you know, this is the first time I've heard that particular thing. It probably is fine. But given the
amount of discussion and concern that went into this whole paragraph, I'm going to vote no.
Because I don't understand what might be the ramifications of it. I don't know what it means to
single out one of the corridors and so forth.

So I'll vote no. And if, you know, I guess on the chance it fails, I'll make a motion to delete the
entire whereas section as sort of taking away from the power of the resolution as a whole, that
particular whereas section.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. There were other people on the board. And I don't see them. No? Oh,
there we go. Oh. So you spoke. OK. All right.
I would like to speak to the amendment. Because I think that's what we're on now. Basically, I felt
it was important to have a position of accuracy. It's inaccurate to say that all the trains would be
electric powered because the Northwest Rail wouldn't. And it just felt inaccurate to me. And I felt
that needed to be addressed.
And similarly, I feel that whereas clause, it's important to keep that in there. Because it shows that
there were a whole bunch of factors that increased costs. And because of that, we need to ask the
staff to go look for cost saving measures as well as funding.
And so to me, it's just logical that we would want to explain why we're asking staff to do that. So
I'm speaking to both of those points. And apparently, there's nobody else that wants to speak to the
amendment. Although Director Folska, are you on the phone?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I am.
JUDY LUBOW: Do you want to speak to this amendment?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think it's critical to have the amendment there. And so I would be in
support of it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. So we'll have to vote on this. We'll have to vote on the
amendment. So I believe that Chair Tisdale was the mover. And I believe the Director Whitmore
was the second.
SPEAKER 4: No. It was Director Broom.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, Director Broom. OK, thank you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I just want to clarify so everyone's clear that what's being voted on right now
is to add the words, "but one" to that whereas clause.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Yeah. OK. So Director Broom is the second. Mine isn't coming up. There
we go. OK. Good. All right. Will everyone else vote, please? OK, the amendment passes 10 to 3.
And the no votes are Director Rivera-Malpiede, Director Cook, and Director Williams.

DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes?
DOUG TISDALE: I think technically, it's 11 to 3 because Director Folska reflected her report.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much for that correction. So we have the amendment. And now
I believe that there were no more comments on the motion. But I myself did want to comment on
it.
I feel this is this resolution is very important. And that's why I spent far too much time on it. I
represent a district that has the misfortune of having two unfunded corridors in it. I mean, how
does that happen? That's pretty amazing.
But anyway, it's the Northwest Corridor in the North Metro Corridor. So I have two groups of
people that are very upset that what we promised is not getting done. And frankly, it's one of the
reasons I ran for the Board not once but twice. I just think if government promises they're going
to do something, that it's very important for the health of our democracy that we do it.
And so I think this resolution confirms that RTD and the Board is aware that we have a legal
obligation to complete FasTracks. And furthermore, that there's going to be a new push now, that
a report is going to be required after two months. That will basically show new funding ideas and
new cost saving ideas. And that's all to the good.
So I really urge the Board to approve this motion. Thank you. OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Lubow, may I comment on the resolution?
JUDY LUBOW: Sure. Go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I'll be a supporting vote for this resolution. I think it is important to
reiterate and reaffirm our commitment to the voters. But frankly, the voters have been paying for
this. We are obligated, I believe, without a shadow of a doubt to fulfill what the voters voted for
and have been paying for.
So thank you very much for spending all of that time. And it is necessary. And I think that people
in your district will really appreciate it, too.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK, Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would also like to introduce an amendment to the
main motion. And it's keeping in line with the 2011 resolution. And in the 2011 resolution, under
the section now therefore be resolved, the second bullet says that the Board will not hold a 2011
FasTracks tax increase election. So I would like to add-- my motion would be to add a similar
statement in that the Board would not hold a 2020 FasTracks tax increase election.

JUDY LUBOW: OK. That's your motion?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Is there a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK. Let me write that down. All right. Are there any speakers to this
amendment? Director Walker.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I would like-- oh, sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Right after-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Yeah. Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I'll be opposing that amendment because I feel that if the people want
to be taxed, then it's up to them. And then the people should have a say and exercise that. And the
only way to exercise that option is to have an election.
Not that I'm for or against it. But I'm for the people having a voice and the choice and exercising
that choice. So I'll be voting no on that amendment.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to vote against it as well. I think we're tying
the staff's hands when they're going to review this over the next two months and come back with
some recommendations and alternatives for the Board to consider. I'm not a big fan of increasing
the tax either. But I think we should leave all these things on the table for us to consider and not
take it off the table before they commence their study.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I will echo the thoughts of Director
Broom. I personally would be opposed to a tax increase. But I do not want artificially to constrain
staff as they look at this. And I fear that if we were to say something like this, if for example the
discussion were, well we could have a tax increase in 2028 that might be considered, someone
might say that was against the intendment of the amendment. I didn't mean to say that but I just
did.
And so, I really agree with Director Broom that it does, in some regards in my view, artificially
constrain the staff. And I'd like not to see it. But I do wish to state for the record my opposition to
a vote for a tax increase in 2020. Thank you.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just have a question to ask Director Mihalik with regard to the amendment.
You are just saying that RTD would not initiate a tax increase. Correct? That that wouldn't be-there wouldn't be anything that would prohibit a citizen-based initiative or a private sector initiative
to initiate such a question on the ballot. So I support the fact that RTD in and of itself would not
initiate a tax increase.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I'm not in support of this amendment. And I agree
with my colleagues on artificially constraining our staff today or sometime in the future. Thank
you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I can't imagine we'd go for a tax increase in 2020.
But I wouldn't want to make a decision just quickly or without some input, that sort of thing, so to
the extent that we're establishing policy here or making representation. I just don't want to do it in
that manner on something that's pretty significant. So I'm going to vote against it as well.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. There's no other comments. So I think I'll chirp up. I also will be
voting against this for the reason that most of the people are saying, which is that I don't want to
tie staff's hands when we're asking them to come up with ideas. To me, that's premature. So I'm
going to be voting against this.
Is there anybody else that wants to speak? OK. Why don't we go to a vote? And I have Director
Mihalik and Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I have a no vote, Chair Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I'm sorry. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I vote no on the amendment.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Thank you. OK. The motion is not carried. It's yes 4 and no 10. That's a lot
of people. I'll just say the yeses-- Director Catlin, Menten, Mahilik, and Williams. OK.
So we now will go to the main motion. Are there speakers for the main motion? Yes. I also wanted
to add something that I forgot to add before. When the staff does the report, there are certain things
that I'm interested in that I would suggest they address. It would help me, anyway.
I'm very interested in the idea of possibly loans from the Base system to FasTracks, if there happens
to be some Base money and not FasTracks yet. So that FasTracks could pay it back. And I would
appreciate it if staff would look into that as a possibility and just talk about it.

Similarly, if stakeholders wanted to loan money to RTD and have it paid back when FasTracks
money came in, I'd like that discussed also, if possible. Similarly, I'm interested in the cash flow
charts, in showing how much of the potential overage of revenues over expenditures, how much
of that is divided into Base money and FasTracks money and any other categories?
And the last thing is a discussion about the value of getting money from private equity funders as
opposed to bonding. And if there is one better than another in certain circumstances, if that could
be discussed. That would be helpful, too. OK. Thank you.
Wow. There's a lot of people. Here we go. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to move that we postpone this entire resolution until we do get the
answers to the things you were just talking about, until we get a report to the Board in two months
following the proposed steps, appropriately moving forward. I see no point in us reiterating what
we've been reiterating in 2004 and 2011. That is part of our mission. And I don't see any point in
this until we get the appropriate information. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Is that a motion? OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Is there a second?
JUDY LUBOW: Is there a second?
NATALIE MENTEN: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Lubow? This is Rolf Ausphaug. If I understand, it's a motion to a time
certain. I'm not certain what the time certain is. But it sounds like it's a motion to move two months
to the board to a-KATE WILLIAMS: I can rephrase that. Thank you, Councilor. It's a motion to postpone this
resolution until such time as the information that is specifically mentioned on the last page of this
resolution which says, the RTD staff will proceed in a commercially reasonable manner to explore,
analyze, fund, and facilitate construction and operation of the Peak Service Plan, including
obtaining planned pricing information from the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad as
expeditiously as possible with a report to the Board within two months.
So this resolution called for that time frame. I'm not personally committed to that time frame. I'm
committed to postponing this resolution until such time as we have that report. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Does that work?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Well, it's a little problematic. This is Rolf again. Because it doesn't refer to a
time certain. And what do we know what that report is going to look like.

DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Excuse me? Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: It strikes me that the motion to postpone is ill taken because in effect what it
does is to adopt the resolution by instructing staff to proceed with providing information that we
haven't actually directed them to do in this resolution. So I don't believe the motion to postpone is
debatable. So I'm not debating it. I'm just bringing up a point of order, and will be voting against
the motion to postpone.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Well, I think the Chair raised another point.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. This is Rolf Ausphaug again. I think that the issue is that if it's not
postponing to a time certain, it's postponing to an event that staff is supposed to do something that
staff hasn't been directed to do. I think that that's correct. It can't be contingent that way.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I'm going to move that we postpone this resolution for 90 days.
JUDY LUBOW: You can do that. OK. Is there a second to that?
NATALIE MENTEN: Second.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. It's a new motion postponing it for 90 days. Is there any discussion?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair. Again, just for the record, I assume there's unanimous consent to
withdrawing the previous motion and now making it to 90 days?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Along the lines of Chair Tisdale's point. This is the resolution that's asking
for that information. And it's asking for that information in two months. So absent this resolution,
we're not going to have anything in 90 days. So we need to do something and this seems like the
tool that will get us to the information that we need.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. Anybody else wanting to speak to this? All right. So I guess we
can just vote.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So-JUDY LUBOW: Sorry. Yes, sorry. Claudia, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, that's fine, Chair Lubow. I would not be in support of this motion.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK. So we're going to vote on this motion to adjourn this for 90 days. OK,
the mover is Director Williams. And the secondor is Director Menten. Are we waiting on anyone?

Oh. I'm sorry. I didn't see that. OK. So the motion was not carried. No 12, yes 2. And the yes are
Menten and Williams.
OK. Moving right along. Let's go back. There were people wanting to talk about the motion, the
original motion again. Director Walker.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yep.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's all right. Thank you, Director Mihalik for bringing forward the
discussion about a tax increase. And the discussion following that truly did make some unspoken
things float up within this proposal. And what this is doing is very possibly opening the door to
suggesting that we ask voters for a tax increase.
I would be strongly opposed to that. And I believe when we talk about promises to the voters, we
promise them a dollar figure. I have the hard copies of what were promised to the voters, in
escalated dollars. And for all of the items within the whereas on the first page and into the second
page, at the end of the day, we are at least over $1 billion, if not well beyond, what we promised
the voters. And I will be a no on this resolution. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'll be supporting this resolution with some apprehension. I'm not sure
that it's necessary to state it again because I'm sure that-- I guess not everybody recognizes it. But
I know I recognize that we-- this body, this agency-- have been investigating ways to complete all
of the unfunded projects in the FasTracks plan.
They all have weight. They all have importance to somebody out there, to several people out there.
But I do think it's important to state it again for those who don't have that faith in this agency, that
we've been investigating it with all of the tenacity that they think we should be. I'm sure staff is up
for the challenge of performing the study.
But I do have one question, Chair. And I'm wondering if there's been dollar amount estimate on
what the study would cost. And if it's been budgeted.
JUDY LUBOW: No. No.
JEFF WALKER: Or if it's already included.
JUDY LUBOW: It's not going to be an outside study. That's not what's being ordered.
JEFF WALKER: Right. But there's still the cost for staff time [INAUDIBLE].
JUDY LUBOW: No, there has not been.

JEFF WALKER: At any rate, I will support-- I'm sure staff can find ways to incorporate this and
it might just be a matter of gathering existing documents-- but I'm definitely in favor of supporting
the announcement that we still support it and we're still behind finishing all of our unfunded
projects, especially this one focusing on the Northwest Rail. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Chair. I'd just like to say thank you to Chair Tisdale, and Chair
Lubow, and several others for a lot of hours of work over the last four or five days. I appreciate it.
I think it bears repeating, we have a lot of questions out there, especially for six new board
members, about what's going on and what happened and why things didn't happen when they
should have happened.
I have a little trepidation of the sixth whereas, as Director Buzek had mentioned. I think it's key
because one of the questions that I receive often as a new Director is, what happened. And this is
helpful. So I appreciate that.
And I don't think it hurts one bit to reiterate our commitment. There's six new Directors. And I say
six in respect to Director Catlin who is certainly not one of the newbies in her skill set, for sure.
And when you look at our senior leadership team, we have a lot of new people-- one, two, three
years. And I think it just sends a signal to our staff that we need to continue, and maybe at a more
feverish rate, to make good on our promise made in 2004. So thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. As far as the agency's commitment to FasTracks, I
would point to the opening of R Line two years ago, the pending opening of the G Line, Southeast
rail extension, and the N Line on the near horizon. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I have a couple of statements and questions. Director Whitmore
just referred to lots of hours of work over the past four or five days. I wasn't included in any work
over the last four or five days. I would like to know who was involved in that.
JUDY LUBOW: Sure. It was basically Director Tisdale and myself. And then-- yeah. She had
some concerns that we were addressing them. And then I think Director Whitmore and people
chimed in, Director Guissinger. Actually it was mostly people that were mentioned, like mentioned
in the memo.
KATE WILLIAMS: And was there a reason that the rest of us were not included?
JUDY LUBOW: It just didn't come up until basically the changes were thought through. And then
it was sent out to show that here are some changes we were thinking of. So you've got an original.
And you've got suggested changes.

KATE WILLIAMS: So my point being that possibly if we had all been included in these
discussions, we wouldn't be having these issues here and now. That's my first point.
My second point is, is this resolution intended to restate the intentions of the RTD Board regarding
the FasTracks commitment? Or is it intended to direct staff to do a specific amount of work? Or
both?
JUDY LUBOW: There are two things it's intended to do, which is basically restate the commitment
of the Board to finishing FasTracks. And also, to direct staff to submit two reports to us within two
months.
KATE WILLIAMS: And do we have specifics on those reports that we are? Because I'm not
directing staff to do any report. Because I don't know what it would be that I'm directing them to
do.
JUDY LUBOW: It's in the language of the resolution. That's what they're being directed to do.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: You're welcome. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Perhaps as much as anything, we are
demonstrating that it is good to repeat some things and highlight some things. Because even
amongst ourselves, there's a very small contingent that might say, is this really appropriate, is it
really worthwhile.
I believe it is beneficial. And I know that it does no harm. So if something is beneficial and does
no harm, I'm inclined to look pretty closely at that and see whether we should do it. It is fair to
provide some background.
This resolution has not been in the works for the past four or five days. It's not been in the works
for the past four or five months. It's been in the works for over two years because Director Lubow
created the initial draft of this motion over two years ago. And I initially worked with her, relative
to language on this motion at the request of then Chair Hoy.
We, through the course of those two years, have worked with staff to try to secure some additional
information and to provide a construct that would be effective. I respectfully submit, relative to
the question of is there an underlayment of, well, there's a tax increase hidden in here, I submit
that's a shibboleth.
No. There is no such intention. There's no expression. There's no contemplation. There is nothing
whatsoever that in any way, shape, or form commits or pretends to commit that this Board is
engaged in that action. And therefore, I submit it is a shibboleth. I ask that we proceed with this
resolution.

And I suggest-- I know there are others who wish to speak. But I will suggest that shortly it will
be appropriate to call for the question. But with that, I thank you. I'm done speaking.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Define shibboleth.
DOUG TISDALE: A phantasm.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. All right. I'm going to ask Director Rivera-Malpiede to speak because
she hasn't spoken before. And then I'm going to call the question. Because just about everybody's
spoken. Yeah, go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Lubow. I really feel compelled to
speak since I signed, as Secretary, the resolution on April 26, 2011. And so I reread that and reread
that. And when I look at this resolution, what it says to me is we are reiterating our commitment
to community.
We are saying, we signed this in 2011. And we're going to sign it again in 2019 to tell you that
we're still here, we're still moving forward. And we're working together as a regional Board to
really put our mark on this community for good transit.
So I want to say those words. And thank you all for this resolution. I think it is always a good idea
to come back and say, we're still here. We're here together. We're working forward. And we're
going to get this thing done. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. Let's vote on this now. So Chair Tisdale and I believe it's
Director Whitmore is the second. Is that accurate? OK. Cool.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Lubow, I vote yes on the resolution.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you, Claudia. OK. This passed. Yes 12, no 2. And the no's are
Directors Menten and Mihalik. So thank you all for a very lively discussion.
I forgot to read our general introduction. This is our safety moment. And I really know you really
want me to read it. So I'll read it I would ask you all to take your seats.
At RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to have a short safety briefing. If we have a medical
emergency, a 911 needs to be called. I will ask our RTD General Council to make that telephone
call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. If needed,
an automatic emergency defibrillator is in the glass case located just outside this room on the wall
to the right.
In the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly exit out
the door you came in at the back of the room. Go up the stairs to the first floor around the security
desk and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct you to a
safe meet up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted
by RTD staff as necessary.

That's it for what I'm going to read. I'm going to spare you another paragraph. OK. So we did the
one recommended action. Now we have updates. Now the staff can join us.
OK. The first update is Denver Union Station bus facility use by private carriers. Take it away,
Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair Lubow and Board. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant
General Manager of Planning. Joining me at the table this evening are Doug Monroe Corridor
Planning Manager and Doug MacLeod Controller, the two Doug M's.
They've been working cooperatively on the topic of private carrier access at Denver Union Station,
along with a number of other folks in bus operations and throughout the district over the past few
years to look at some opportunities and to address the interests that the City and County of Denver
and particularly our stakeholder Greyhound, but other private carriers as well, have had in current
levels of access and potentially exploring heightened level or increased level of access, private
carrier access, to that multimodal facility, the bus concourse at Denver Union Station.
So we thought it would be timely to bring you up to speed with that continued interest on behalf
of both the City and County of Denver, and our private sector, and private carrier interest. So next
few slides, I'm going to turn it over to Doug Monroe to take you through some of the details that
we have prepared for you tonight.
DOUG MONROE: So Denver Union Station was originally planned to have gates that were
dedicated for use by commercial carriers. Those gates are currently gates B3 and B4 down there.
And they're used by Greyhound and Black Hills Stage Lines as Amtrak throughway buses
connecting to Amtrak trains at Union Station.
And then they're also used by our partners at CDOT to operate their statewide Bustang bus service.
As FasTracks corridors have opened, there has been more bus gate space available down there due
to some of those bus lines being replaced by FasTracks rail lines.
The Denver Area Regional Bus Facility study was a study that was done in 2015 led by CDOT
and Greyhound. RTD served on the advisory panel for that. And the recommendation for that study
concluded was that Denver's inner city bus terminal should relocate from the Denver bus center,
which is located at 19th and Arapahoe, to Denver Union Station. And Greyhound first approached
RTD with this proposal back in 2015.
Wanting to gauge overall interest and look at what the market had to offer as far as private carriers
wanting to provide service to Denver Union Station, RTD issued a request for expression of
interest in 2017 an RFEI. And we received responses from four private carriers. Those are
Greyhound who we'll get to on the next slide, and then two casino operators-- Ramblin Express
and Ace Express-- who wanted to operate a few times a day to take gamblers but also employees
of the casinos up in Blackhawk and Central City up to those locations.

And then Gray Line of Denver that operates daily sightseeing tours, currently they pick up at
various locations around downtown. And this would allow them to pick up at a central place at
Union Station.
So Greyhound's response to the RFEI was to relocate from their facility at Denver Bus Center to
Denver Union Station and create a truly multimodal hub there. We already have local bus service,
our regional bus service and rail service. We have statewide bus service with Bustang. We have
national rail service there. This would bring in that national bus service.
And their request was originally to have four bus gates and ticketing at our Union Station facility.
The other functions that Denver Bus Center currently serves, servicing buses, packages that
Greyhound carries, things like that, we inform them that that wouldn't be able to take place at
Union Station and they could instead do that at their local maintenance facility.
So Denver Bus Center operations currently are relatively minimal compared to the big picture of
what our operations look like at Denver Union Station. There are currently only 15 arrivals and
departures of inner city buses-- 12 of those on Greyhound, two of them on Black Hills Stage Lines,
and one of them on Burlington Trailways.
And actually, 40% of these trips already serve Union Station as Amtrak throughway trips, so five
of those arrivals and seven of those departures. And then the other tenant there at the Denver Bus
Center is Bustang, who already serves Union Station with all 18 of their departures, serve both
Denver Union Station and Denver Bus Center.
So as far as Denver Union Station operations, all of these bus trips can be accommodated within
the bus concourse at the gates that we have identified for that. The majority of these inner city trips
that would need to move into Union Station are outside of our peak periods. So there's plenty of
space at those times.
Greyhound, at their peak in the summer when they're at their busiest carrying the most passengers,
has about 500 daily passengers at Denver Bus Center who we would expect to move to Denver
Union Station. And just to give you a picture of how that fits into the overall ridership at Union
Station, we have over 9,000 boardings a day just within the bus concourse there, not to mention
all the people that are passing through the bus concourse getting between the train platforms and
the historic building there.
So as we continue to work through this, we look at a few different things. Security is a big one
with bringing these additional passengers in here. Restrooms, knowing that we have challenges
maintaining the restrooms down there that we have already.
But we have looked at some solutions for that, and then maintaining RTD operational flexibility
down there, So we're continuing to have those conversations internal with RTD, talking with our
partners at the City and County of Denver, and with Greyhound as well.
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. So I'll talk a little bit about the financial side of
things. So early on when we first started looking at this arrangement, one of the big considerations

or challenges we had was how would we structure something like this financially. So not really
having experience with this exact, unique type of situation using our facilities by a private
contractor, we did some research.
We contacted a few of the locations where Greyhound currently uses public facilities. We actually
talked to four of them, including the New York Port Authority, the Boston Port Authority, the
Toledo Port Authority, and Union Station in Washington DC, just to get an idea about how they
structured their arrangement, both their contractual agreement with Greyhound's presence there as
well as the pricing, and any other issues that they might want to recommend that we be aware of.
Regarding the financial side, what we found is there is a whole mix of different ways each of these
entities charges Greyhound. They range from a lease for using a portion of their facilities based on
square footage. So for instance, if they have-- in Toledo, for example, they only have-- they mainly
have rail in that facility. But they allowed Greyhound to come in. And they lease a certain portion
of their square footage is dedicated just to Greyhound passengers.
Boston Port Authority has a departure fee as well as a gate fee, as well as Washington DC, and
New York. Some of them actually have dedicated gates that are solely dedicated to Greyhound,
which would not be the case with RTD. And some of them also-- because there were several
arrivals at each gate-- rather than just having a fixed gate fee, they also had an arrival and departure
fee.
So when we took a look at this for RTD's purposes and our specific arrangement and what would
fit in with our operations, we took a few things into consideration that are up there on the slide. So
number one is that we want it to be revenue positive or revenue neutral. So there would be no net
cost to the taxpayer if we were to allow private entities to use our facility. And that's also a
requirement, since it's federally funded.
We also decided probably the easiest way to administer an arrangement like this would be to charge
by bus arrivals and departures. And then we're still discussing this, but should there be peak and
off-peak pricing. One of the reasons for that is to adjust for our needs and to make sure that our
operations and theirs are structured correctly so that we can price things accordingly, to availability
of bus slips. And then finally, we want to be sure that we can recover increased security costs and
any maintenance costs associated with having a third party using Denver Union Station.
DOUG TISDALE: So to wrap it up, as I said in the introduction, the city and county of Denver,
Greyhound in particular, other private carriers, continue to have interest in discussions and have
engaged in discussions with RTD regarding the potential for their increased access into Denver
Union Station in the future.
You now have some idea as to the relative scale of those proposals, and a number of the challenges
and considerations from a financial, security [INAUDIBLE] issue for our patrons and for
Greyhound's patrons, assuring security in that environment, things as mundane as restrooms and
maintaining our own operational flexibility.

Wanted to present all that to you because of that continued level of interest. And then ask for your
questions, discussion. And if you have any input based on that information for staff, we'd be open
to hearing any and all of that.
DAVE GENOVA: Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, yes. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: So if I could just add a few things to help framework. So we're right now
considering putting out a request for proposals for private use of the facility following up on the
request for expressions of interest. Because this has been challenging for us to think about, being
that this is a public facility and a federally funded facility. And now we have private carriers that
are interested in using it and looking at the overall structure. So we thought being very open about
that use, similar to our procurement process, was the most reasonable approach.
So we wanted to bring this information to you tonight, get some feedback. Obviously, you might
have some things that come up after tonight. And certainly, you can-- if there's questions, input,
or other things that you have for us, if you want to direct those to either Bill Van Meter or myself,
we'll do that.
But we're considering our next step would be an RFP. I know there's been a lot of talk amongst
our team about you saw some information on financials about being either revenue gaining, trying
to do some value capture, which of course is very much being promoted by FTA and others on
projects that have federal funding or at least staying neutral. And so, some of the agreements that
we have seen, I will just state that it's not a huge revenue generation potential as what we see. But
it's even challenging to be able to recoup the additional costs that we would have in terms of,
particularly, facility costs for custodial, security, and things like that.
So around the restrooms, just to give you a little bit more detail, we took a couple different
approaches on that. As you know, we have restrooms only at one end of the facility. And then
there's restrooms in the historical building. And some of the Board may be familiar that adding
any facilities there is very, very challenging.
Although I did ask the Capital Programs Group, Henry and his team, to take a kind of an order of
magnitude about if we wanted to try to put in restrooms, what would that cost look like. That would
be somewhere-- again this is an order of magnitude-- of around $1 million to add minimal facilities.
Or another approach that we thought of in recent conversations is instead of adding facilities,
because the other thing we're just not sure of is whether we want to go in and mess with a rehab of
that or getting into a renovation of that facility, which is already purpose built. So perhaps, a good
step would be just ramping up to a full time attendance in the restrooms to help kind of maintain
and manage those facilities.
So I just wanted to provide that additional info. And then we're happy to hear from you what your
thoughts are, and any input or any questions you have for us.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. There's quite a few speakers. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Back at page 14, it mentions the study done by CDOT,
Greyhound as leaders for the bus facility study. Is that available on a PDF that you could send me?
DOUG MONROE: Yes, it is.
NATALIE MENTEN: Following on the next page, it states there were four carriers who responded
to our RFEI. Could you please send me those four responses?
DOUG MONROE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's all my questions. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I think just for the benefit of staff,
of course, you do understand anytime a Director requests information, that's to be provided to all.
I mean, it's not just one person asking for it. And you understand that.
BILL VAN METER: And indeed. And I'm sorry for the interruption. But I do recall that some of
the responses were marked confidential. So we'll have to look into what portions need to be
potentially redacted and what we can and can't provide.
DAVE GENOVA: And if I may, Madam Chair, Bill, don't we have a summary of all of that
information anyway? Because we did report back to the Board after those RFEIs. And maybe we
can start with that information, at least immediately, and then sort through the rest of it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I think that's a good clarification. A couple of quick questions that
I hope are sort of yes or no type questions. Greyhound is a private for-profit enterprise, correct?
BILL VAN METER: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And Greyhound would close its current bus facility if it moved to
Denver Union Station, correct?
BILL VAN METER: That is the indication that we have received.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And Greyhound would then presumably sell its facilities site for
redevelopment in a rather prime location in the Denver downtown area, correct?
BILL VAN METER: Again, consistent with my understanding.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And Greyhound, as a result of that, would no longer incur the taxes, the
maintenance, the Capex costs for the current bus facility that they're paying right now, right?

BILL VAN METER: In that situation, you are correct.
DOUG TISDALE: How much of the real estate profit and expected savings does Greyhound
propose to share with RTD?
BILL VAN METER: We have not entered into those sorts of detailed negotiations. But I believe
Greyhound's expectations are that it would be based on the pricing structures that they experience
elsewhere in similar facilities, as Doug MacLeod described earlier.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. I certainly understand that. And I take it there's nothing that
constrains RTD to charge only what our increased cost might be. We can, in fact, charge more
than what our increased costs might be for providing the service.
BILL VAN METER: Yes, we can.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. That was a yes, right?
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I heard you say it's just 500 additional passengers. And we
already have 9,000. But that's still a 5.6% increase in passenger load on the facility, correct?
BILL VAN METER: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's all the questions I have.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Buzek please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I think it's a great idea to consider using our
excess capacity, if you can ameliorate the negative impacts. But I fear that that might be
problematic. And as Chair Tisdale indicates, I think inherent in his comments is the fact that if
we're just at a break even providing the service and covering our costs, I don't think that's
something I'd be in favor of.
I mean, there is going to be wear and tear on our facility. There's going to be degradation of the
facility and all kinds of things that we might not want. So I'm kind of negative on this one. Thank
you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I recall many, many years ago during the initial
planning for Denver Union Station that it was contemplated that Greyhound might be a tenant.
And then that kind of went by the wayside. And now it's being resurrected.
But my question is, as part of our rail operations, we already permit Amtrak, which is a quasiprivate entity, to use our facility as well as the Winter Park Ski Train. What are we charging for

maintenance and upkeep for those facilities on the rail side? And would that be very much different
than what is being proposed here for Greyhound and others?
BILL VAN METER: I don't have the information on what we charge or what the structures are.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is it break even?
BILL VAN METER: --for Amtrak.
DOUG MACLEOD: So I do have the Amtrak numbers on the lease agreement that we have with
them. This is Doug MacLeod. For Amtrak, we have an operating agreement that works out to
roughly $17,000 per month to use our operations. We also have a lease on the building that is about
$14,000 per month.
That revenue from the building lease actually goes to the Union Station Alliance, the partners who
are leasing the building. They, in turn, share revenue with us. So we don't actually collect the lease
portion from Amtrak. But at least that's what they're paying, $17,000 plus $14,000 per month. And
I don't have numbers on the Winter Park Ski Train.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: May I, Chair?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: And I would state just there's a lot of history with the Amtrak agreement. So
let us dig that up and summarize that for the Board. Because even as we acquired the facility back
in 2001, we basically had to honor all those agreements. And even as we worked through the new
Union Station redevelopment, there was all of those agreements kind of attached throughout that.
So there's a lot of history of those. I appreciate the question. And it's a good one. But it's a little
different situation.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might. I remember all that. And my point is that we have set a precedent
for allowing some commercial use in the facility. And that was really the point of my question.
And to the extent that it could be revenue positive, even more than revenue neutral, I think it's
worth considering.
That being said, as was discussed in our last lengthy conversation about the resolution, with staff
embarking on this T2 process, I would not want to have anything that was made available to the
private sector all of a sudden be in jeopardy because of some suggested changes or improvements
to our bus and rail operations as a result of the T2 study. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'm going to ask Director Folska if she's still on the line and wants to
comment. OK. All right. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry. I had a hard time [INAUDIBLE]. Yeah. I love this idea. I think it's
brilliant. I think it's a grand slam. It's just a matter of taking care of those details that our staff is so
good at doing. And as long as we can generate revenue and maybe some real substantial revenue,
it's well worth moving forward and learning more about it. I mean, how else are we going to be
able to finish FasTracks? Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you again, Chair. I support having one bus station downtown for the
traveling public. It's kind of confusing now if you've got two bus stations downtown. They may be
fairly close to each other, but they're still a ways apart. And so if you're coming off of the light rail
or one of the commuter rail trains to transfer to a bus, wherever it's going, it's far more convenient
for the public.
And then, the thought that you could redevelop the old bus station, you do away with kind of an
eyesore, you'd add to the tax base which helps not only the city and county of Denver, but it helps
RTD. We'll certainly get our 1% out of anything that's spent on materials, on rebuilding that
particular facility.
And so to me, it just makes sense to do it. If the facility is large enough, if we were to cause the
facility to be overburdened-- and you can imagine how expensive it would be to expand that
existing facility-- then it wouldn't be feasible. But if it's feasible, then I think it makes sense to
have one bus station downtown and the benefits that come with that. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am always in favor of multi-modal connections.
I think that's what we are moving toward. My question would be, have we looked at how many of
the passengers who get off of these services get onto our service and vise versa?
DOUG MONROE: I believe that study that we'll be providing to the Board, they analyzed how
people were accessing the current Denver Bus Center. So I think there is some knowledge of how
they're connecting between-- or getting to and from their Greyhound buses.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I think that-- can I go on a little bit? I think that as we look toward T2 and
look toward being the mobility carrier in the area, that this is probably a good idea. I just want to
make sure, as has been stated, that we are able to provide a quality of service equally to everybody.
And we do have, Bustang is there now partnering with us. So we would have some more
connectivity between them and other carriers, question mark.
DOUG MONROE: Bustang would connect with these Greyhound buses there, as well as they
connect with them today at Denver Bus Center. But there'd be better connectivity across the whole
system at Union Station, of course.
KATE WILLIAMS: Just so long as we feel like we're able to keep the quality of service, that
would be my concern in as much as we get a lot of complaints now. We need to make sure that

financially we gain enough to do increased guards and increased cleaning and increased
surveillance, and all of those things. Then I'm totally for it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Just briefly, I agree with some of the positive remarks that have been made-Director Broom, Director Folska, Williams, and so forth, and agree with the caveats. But I kind of
see it as an opportunity to not just increase ridership. I think we can assume there will be some
increase because of the proximity and the ease of transferring.
But also, I think this reinforces and almost cements the role of RTD as the mobility integrator,
kind of getting at what you had mentioned. Because literally, this is the nexus for all of that. And
since it's our facility, I think it really reinforces that one role that we're just now identifying through
the Mobility Choice and the T2 process. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Just very briefly, I am informed that there have been
concerns raised by the union relative to the availability of facilities, if we were to add additional
drivers and such and that in general we have some constrained facilities. And one of the things that
we did in the collective bargaining agreement was really work on trying to increase quality of life.
So as any discussions go forward, I would anticipate that would be part of the dialogue too. And
as I say, I think there would be money available on the part of Greyhound once they get done
selling that property that they could address creating those improvements as well. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Do you have an idea of the average length of releases at the other port
authorities that you talked to?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Yes. This is Doug MacLeod. So when we spoke with them, they all
range from a minimum of five years all the way up to 10 years. So they weren't very long. But they
weren't short either.
JEFF WALKER: And I'm guessing that we're only considering the underground bus bays, no new
facility above ground, like where the skylights are or anything like that.
BILL VAN METER: Correct.
JEFF WALKER: OK. And has there been any thought about splitting it between Union Station
and Civic Center? I don't know if there's any capacity at Civic Center.
BILL VAN METER: There has not been talk about that. But since so many of the Amtrak
passengers-- not so many, but many of the Greyhound passengers are making transfers or
connecting trips, having all of their operations in one location, I think, is probably a key aspect of
their operational need.

JEFF WALKER: Yeah. That makes sense. OK. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Any other comments? All right. I'd like to speak for a little bit.
One concern that I had was if we ever got bigger and needed those gates back. It's my
understanding from talking to Bill that there would be an out for us. But I wonder how practical
that would be if the Greyhound facility has already been sold. So I think it's something to think
about.
The other thing that I'm really-- I like the synergy and the connectivity of it. I think that's a good
thing. But for the life of me, I don't understand why we would do it without a profit. I mean, since
it's ours to set, why don't we set it for a profit? I can't understand that. It's not that wonderful that
I'd want to give it away as charity.
That's it. So do you guys have anything more you want to say?
BILL VAN METER: No. Thank you. This was a great discussion.
JUDY LUBOW: Cool. Thank you.
DOUG MONROE: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Well, we have two more.
BILL VAN METER: We do. And I suspect they'll go-- well, famous last words-- more rapidly.
Our next update is on the State Highway 119 Bus Rapid Transit.
JUDY LUBOW: I think you really confused Chris.
BILL VAN METER: Did I?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, you said, we're going to go more rapidly. He's like [INAUDIBLE].
BILL VAN METER: Oh, yeah, as in bus rapid transit. Chris Quinn, our Planning Project Manager
for this project, is here to deliver some good news regarding progress on the project. And so I'll
turn it over to Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: Good evening. Again, Chris Quinn with RTD Planning. And you may recall that
back in February we provided an update on this project. So I won't go over the first couple of
slides, since those were repeats from the last presentation, which provide project background and
the level of community outreach that we've engaged in throughout the process.
What I do want to focus on, at the last meeting we went over the alternatives that were under
consideration by our stakeholders, including our policy group which is comprised of the elected
officials from the communities along the corridor, as well as Directors Lubow and Guissinger.

Now backup for just one moment, historically. Going into this project, it had been our general
assumption that the outcome would be a bus-on-shoulder type application. And after working with
our stakeholders, both the technical and policy groups, it became clear that there was a-- that their
vision for the corridor included much, much more.
And after working through what it could potentially look like, the recommended outcome is a bus
manage lane, in the inside of the facility or along the median, which would be similar to US 36,
open to car poolers, toll paying vehicles, and buses.
And on the next slide, these are the elements that were included, though, in the vision. And I'll go
over, on the following slide, which elements we would expect RTD to be responsible for, and the
funding that we do have identified at this point in the project.
So for the corridor vision, again, very similar to US 36. The vision would include BRT managed
lanes throughout the corridor, which would obviously provide improved travel times for all users,
the buses and autos as well. Improved local bus connections, especially on the Longmont end.
New stations. And we would envision something similar, but probably different design, that we
have on US 36 with consistent station furniture throughout the corridor, ticket vending machines
possibly, security cameras, real time information, and five Park and Ride facilities, and a new
commuter bike way along the corridor.
Now on this next slide, we've identified approximately $53 million dollars that we expect to be
available over the next several years. And that includes funding from RTD in our mid-range
financial plan that would become available in 2023, funds from CDOT region four, as well as
DRCOG and the local jurisdictions.
And with those transit dollars, we expect that we'd be able to start the BRT service, which would
include branding, construct the Park and Rides as well as the station enhancements, a bus way on
Kaufmann Street in Longmont, which would be just north of the First and Main Station that we're
currently working with Longmont on as part of the FasTracks project. And bus queue jumps on
State Highway 52, and bus turn lanes in Boulder on 28th Street.
Funding for the other elements would come from other sources outside of RTD. So I want to make
it clear that RTD has the $30 million identified in the mid-range financial plan, as well as the other
money from DRCOG, CDOT, and the local stakeholders. But that would cover only the transit
elements.
The unfunded elements would include, obviously, the new lane along the facility, the bike path,
and one other element that I do want to mention is we haven't shown this as part of our study
because we expect to be addressing this as part of the T2. But the Boulder maintenance facility
currently is at capacity. So we do recognize that very limited ability to provide housing for new
buses at that facility when the quarter becomes online as well as if any additional corridors in the
Northwest area come online also.

As far as the schedule, we went to the public in February. We had three meetings-- one in Boulder,
Longmont, and Niwot to present the recommended corridor vision to the public. For the most part,
it got positive responses.
We had a joint policy and technical advisory committee meeting last week and got unanimous
approval for the vision. And so tonight, we'd like to seek Board input. And then, the intent after
this point would be to complete our environmental review and design. And we figured that would
be done probably midsummer time frame. So I'd welcome any questions you might have.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Hi, Chris. I'm wondering if we are keeping track
of how many of these riders now come down to Boulder and get on the Flat Iron Flyer, what that
connectivity is. I'm wondering if we're looking at how many of these riders will transfer to the new
train to Longmont when that comes up. So we'll then make this whole corridor thing in the Flat
Iron Flyer obsolete. Because they'll be riding that piece of FasTracks. And I just wonder if we're
looking at how all of this is going to fit together.
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah. When we were conducting our ridership modeling, we assumed that the
rail was not there. So I wouldn't be able to answer the second piece of your question, simply
because the rail is not in the DRCOG long range fiscally constraint regional transportation plan at
this point. So that is-- it's been put in. Yeah.
So when we conducted our ridership model, it was assumed that the train-- at least when this opens
and then even up to 2040-- was not there. On the first part of your question on the connection to
the Flat Iron Flyer, when we were looking at potential routing we did look at whether there would
be any demand for going all the way to Table Mesa for that particular connection so that it would
provide an easy connection between the two services. And that particular routing pattern did not
perform very well.
However, I do want to emphasize, one of the routing patterns does terminate at the downtown
Boulder station. So the opportunity would still be there for somebody to transfer to the Flat Iron
Flyer services if they are either, for whatever reason, wanted to go to Denver that way and not take
the L services, or if they're going to the employment centers along US 36.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, do you have any questions or comments?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I do not. Thank you, Chair Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would just add that-- excuse me-- Director Lubow and I have been
attending these. Chris is doing a great job. And the whole area there, they have this vision for 119.
And 119, doing this will not become redundant. Right now, what we were talking about in the

near-term and in our resolution, was peak period rail, which is three trains in the morning into
Denver and three trains at night later. So I think full service is probably still some time away.
And this service goes all day and both directions. And it takes people-- the two critical pieces are
it takes a lot of people to CU. And it takes a lot of people downtown. So it's sort of a whole different
route. Is that fair, Chris?
CHRIS QUINN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'd like to ask a question. Let's just assume that the $200 million extra
that's unfunded now is not obtained. What would opening day look like for our transit?
CHRIS QUINN: Yes. We would still be able to provide the new stations, the new and enhanced
stations. So again, the upgraded shelters, probably consistent station furniture, TVMs, branding.
We would still have the queue jumps at State Highway 52, the bus in turn lanes on 28th street in
Boulder, as well as the Kaufman Street bus way. So all of those would definitely provide a benefit
to transit, but not the full bang of having the BRT managed lanes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. How much advantage would the queue jumps provide? That's a lot, isn't it?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah. And that's an interesting question because-- I'll leave out the politics of-- I
know you know the history of the interchange. Since the biggest backup in the corridor is currently
occurring at State Highway 52. So having the bypass lanes there would make a substantial
contribution to a shorter travel time.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. And one more question. Right now, I think the BOLT is hourly, on off-peak.
So the improvement would be to half-hourly. Is that-CHRIS QUINN: For opening day or 2040? So, on opening day, we have-- in the mid-range
financial plan, there are additional service hours programmed. So when we get closer to actual
implementation, we would have to sit down and figure out exactly what those dollars could
translate into for the exact service plan. But yes, the expectation is that peak period, we would
have at least 15 minutes service and 30 off.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. And thank you for all your really hard work.
Appreciate it. I think that's it for this. You're done. Yahoo.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. There's one more. You're not done.
BILL VAN METER: Exactly. Next in line is a quick update on the 16th Street Mall. We have no
presentation. But we do have updates. And they are Susan Wood, our Planning Project Manager,
and Jyotsna Vishwakarma, our Chief Engineer, to provide you an update on that project.

SUSAN WOOD: Good evening, Directors. I'm Susan Wood. I'm here with Jyotsna Vishwakarma
It's been a while, I think, since we've been here before you to give you an update on the 16th Street
Mall rehabilitation project. And we've had a lot of work under way. And I think we're about to
come up to some milestones. So this is a good time to give you guys an update.
Again, it's a rehabilitation project. It's a joint project, just to provide a little context, between the
City and County of Denver, the Downtown Denver Partnership, and RTD. Our real interest in the
project, obviously, is our transit service and the transit way itself. In particular, the cost and
frequency of maintenance has been a real problem over the years, being upwards of $1 million a
year to do. So that's been our focus.
City and County of Denver's focus and Downtown Denver Partnerships' focus, on the other hand,
really is more on the public gathering aspects of the mall itself, the economic aspects of the mall,
and people coming and staying and spending time on the mall. Again, our interest is maintenance
and the cost of maintenance.
Last summer, our senior leaders at RTD worked with City and County of Denver and came to an
agreed upon framework for the cost. So from a capital cost perspective-- and I know that you will
remember this, probably, from last year as well-- but from a capital cost perspective, we're limited
to what we provide from two grants that we've received, two federal grants. And that totals about
$15 million.
From a maintenance perspective, and this is going forward, post construction, wants the mall is
rehabilitated, we're limited to spending $100,000 a year. And after a five year warranty period,
we're really limited to only 30% of the cost. So that could very well be less than $100,000. But
again, our cap is $100,000 a year which is an improvement over the $1 million a year we've been
paying in maintenance thus far.
So to get to this point, though, we've been working hard with Denver. It's been a very good
partnership. We really have, I think, three phases of work that are underway. And the one that is
about to come to completion, I believe, is the environmental process, the environmental clearance
process. Because we have been awarded federal grants for the project, we have to do an
environmental clearance process and receive approval from FTA.
So we have an environmental assessment underway, it's been underway for some time now, and
some other documentation as well. Again, it looks like we're reaching the point where that's about
to come to a close, which is great. And in fact, we do believe that we'll be able to release the EA
for public review probably within the next few weeks, maybe as soon as next week. But certainly
within the next few weeks.
And one of the things that's significant about this, and something that I know you would want to
know, is that about two weeks into that 30-day review period, which is what is required for an EA,
will hold a public open house or public meeting, like that ones we've done a couple of times in the
past on this project.

In the past, we've held them here in your meeting room, in your conference room. And that's what
we'll try to do again. We'll meet over the noon hour, for those who work downtown or live
downtown to come, and then also meet in the late afternoon, early evening for others who want to
attend. So look for an announcement on that. Certainly it will be on the Board calendar. So you'll
know when the EA is released and when the public meeting is scheduled.
One of the things that will happen after the EA is released and after we have the public meeting is
the next step is to receive a decision document. In this case-- and that's the approval from the
Federal Transit Administration. And in this case, it's a Finding Of No Significant Impact or FONSI.
Because it is in the NEA we anticipate that we'll receive that probably in late June, maybe into
July, but hopefully by late June.
And one of the things that's most significant about this is that in order to go forward and complete
the procurement process, we need to have the environmental documentation in place and that
approval. Once we do complete the environmental work, there will be some planning work that
continues. But this is primarily work by City and County of Denver.
And that's to look at public life. Again, their interest is really on people coming and spending time
on the mall. Jyotsna and I are involved in that conversation, and will continue to be involved
because we want to provide the RTD perspective, things that might be proposed that would have
an impact or affect the service that we provide or on the NEPA documentation itself.
So again, it's really the city's process but we're involved. We're looking forward to the
environmental work being completed so that we can go forward with the procurement process,
which Jyotsna is going to talk about.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Good evening. The 16th Street Mall reconstruction project will be
a design build project. The city issued a request for qualifications to screen contractors in early
January, I believe. And they have been working on getting the RFP package together and putting
the requirements and getting ready to put out the RFP.
So we expect procurement to take much of this year. The city has also been looking at major utility
relocations and reconstruction. They would like to build it right from the ground up to make sure
that whatever is built lasts for a long time, and that the mall does not have to be torn up again.
So if all goes well, they expect to give the notice to proceed in early 2020, and the construction to
take two and a half years. So with that, are there any questions?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, there is. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Really not a question, but just to share with the new Board Directors this
long history on the 16th Street Mall. And my understanding, if memory is right, we were above
the $1 million a year, more like $1.3 million a year, to maintain just the pavers on the mall. Just
the pavers.

And the battle and the argument, which we lost, was keeping the pavers, which can also be a safety
hazard for pedestrians. If any of you have tripped on them, or in heels, been sight impaired, you
would know about that. We lost that battle. A majority, at least to the Board at that time, wanted
to replace it with colored concrete.
Why do we have the pavers? It's an artistic thing. And from way up in the sky, I'm not sure how
many stories, it resembles a rattlesnake. That could have been accomplished with colored concrete.
To give you an idea of a highway and the maintenance for 1.3 miles, if you look up-- and I used
my guidelines, I'm not an engineer-- roughly $10,000 to $20,000 for the same length where you
have trucks and we've got our shuttles.
But $1.3 million a year annually. We lost that battle. But we did win, somewhat, when we capped
what we would be spending on it.
So our opposition on this was Downtown Denver Partnership, somewhat the City and County of
Denver, the Historic District. And so I've just provided that to you to give you a little bit better
understanding of what was being referenced as to extreme cost and maintenance on this small
section of road. Thank you. That's all.
And if I got anything wrong there, you could let me know. But I think I got it OK.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, do you have any comments?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: The only other thing-- yes, thank you, Chair Lubow. The only other thing I
might add to Director Menten's comments is that somehow the 16th Street Mall was deemed by
the historic preservation group that it was a historic thing, that the 16th Street Mall falls under that.
But actually, it doesn't. Because you have to be 60 years old or more to qualify for that. But that
was also part of the conversation. And I think, with the pavers, the granite, they had to bring it
from Italy. And it was something about $70 million to do this rehabilitation, for 1 mile.
And to put that into perspective, the Northwest rail is about $40 million a mile, from my
recollection, something like that. So that's all. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I think that's all. Thank you very much.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Good night. All right, moving right along. We're up to other matters. I have one
other matter. I hit it before you did, Doug. So, OK. I can't find the piece of paper, but we were
shown a letter from the City of Denver, maybe it was a press release, whatever, about they have a
new Infrastructure and Transportation Department.
And I just wanted to say that it seems to me we're in a very shifting sands type of position. Things
are changing, not only with the technology but I think the jurisdictions are changing. And I know

that Denver is not the only one that is thinking of doing some of their own transit. So I just urge
us all to be willing to discuss new models of doing our business.
And to me, what makes sense at least for now, is the idea of more of a partnership. I just wanted
to throw that out there. So that's it. And then Chair Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Just some brief matters. I wanted to remind everyone
that the Metro Mayors Caucus meets tomorrow morning at 7:30 AM at the Denver Chamber. I
actually expect, for once, we might be welcomed with open arms at that meeting. And then to
remind you that the G Line tour will be conducted on April the 9th, the afternoon of April the 9th.
So please respond to the Board Office, if you have not already. And a reminder that the Southeast
rail extension tour will be conducted on Thursday, April 11th. And that's from 2:00 PM to 4:00
PM.
Right now, Director Mihalik and I are the only ones who have signed up for that. And this tour
will include videos and photo opportunities that we're creating to create some B roll for our
Communications Department to work with. And Director Mihalik and I are more than happy to
share the limelight with any Directors who want to be there, to be on that. So that's Thursday, April
11, 2:00 to 4:00 PM.
And lastly, I am honored to say that I have been appointed as the Ttransit Board Member's
Legislative Chair at APTA, effective as of Monday this week. As such, I will be joining General
Manager Genova on the Executive Committee of APTA. So we hope to have a combined Denver
impact on APTA. Those are all my other matters. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you and congratulations. The next meeting date is-BILL VAN METER: Chair Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I'm sorry.
BILL VAN METER: Sorry. A late breaking development that I want to provide an update to the
Board on regarding I-25 and Broadway. So if it's your pleasure under other matters, I'd like to give
you this update.
JUDY LUBOW: Go for it. We're all ears.
BILL VAN METER: So staff from the City and County of Denver recently informed RTD staff
that they're going to be filing a land acquisition ordinance with city council. In support of their
acquisition of right of way that they need for their Broadway Station I-25 Safety and Access
Improvements Project, that's also known as the Wedge Ramp project at Denver.
So for those who don't know, I heard an uh huh from one Board member, this project is going to
build a new ramp from southbound Broadway to South I-25, eliminating the current ramp which
is access via left turn from Southbound Broadway. It's also going to make a number of other

improvements to Broadway and Lincoln, some street lighting, storm sewer, and a protected bike
way, all as part of the same project.
In the course of developing that, Denver is determined that their acquisition needs include some
of RTD's land at the station, specifically land under the highway in one of the areas that we
currently use for parking. Denver has indicated that their schedule for actual acquisition of RTD's
land is two, three, or more years out. But that their process requires council approval of all right
of way acquisitions at the start of the project, which is where they are at, and moving forward,
intending to move forward to council.
Denver has been developing this project for some time. They've reached out to RTD in the past to
keep us informed of their development. However, until now, the project has not been defined well
enough for Denver and RTD to have a solid understanding of Denver's right of way requirements.
They're now there.
They informed us of those requirements in a meeting just Monday of this week. In past and current
discussions with Denver staff, RTD has emphasized and reemphasized the need for us to maintain
transit operational flexibility, both during construction of the project and when it is completed. A
key aspect is ensuring that our bus access into and out of the station is provided at two separate
locations. So we have redundancy at such a key location for us operationally, and that that be
preserved during construction and in the final state.
We've also emphasized the need for the project not to impact, that is to reduce the number of
parking spaces available to our patrons at that station. Denver really has been responsive and
supportive of these requirements, as we've articulated them and re-articulated them to Denver. And
they have laid out plans that accommodate those requirements, our requirements.
So having laid all that out to you, the intent of this briefing was just to bring you up to date on the
project and let you know that Denver's design has progressed now to a point where they are
planning to file a land acquisition ordinance that includes right of way requirements from RTD,
and to give you some assurance that we've had discussions with Denver going along and to date
to make sure that our patrons' needs and importantly our operational needs as well are both met in
the construction state and in the future state.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Broom, do you have a comment or question?
BOB BROOM: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Does RTD have land on the west side of the station there?
And is it possible that parking could be put over there and an overpass or something put in place?
SPEAKER 16: RTD, to my knowledge, does not have any property rights west of the station. It's
the consolidated mainline, and then other private interests beyond that.
BOB BROOM: OK. I just had it in the back of my mind that they did have some property on the
west side. And I wondered how in the world you would ever be able to use that land.

SPEAKER 16: Up near Alameda, our old Alameda bus barn site to the west of the Alameda Station
was RTD's until we sold that land as excess property and followed our excess property disposition
process a few years ago.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Looks like no more comments or questions. Director Folska? OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No thank you, Chair Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you. All right. Thank you, Bill. Good night. So the next meeting
date is June 4th. And we're going to adjourn this meeting finally. But afterwards, we'll take a five
minute break before our next meeting. Thank you. This meeting is adjourned.

