Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, July 12, 2007
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 13, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee
Meeting held on Thursday, July 12, 2007 at 5:15p.m. Rooms T&D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Co-Chair Kinton, Co-Chair McMullen, Noel Busck, Bruce Daly, Bill
Elfenbein, Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick, John Tayer

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Porter, Tony McCaulay, John Tarbert, Scott Reed, Cal
Shankster, Larry Buter, Jesse Carter, Dave Genova

Others:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), , Councilwoman Jeanne Robb,
Holman Carter, ATU, L.W. Morrow, John Thornton, Jeanne Elliott,
Don Bain, Frank King, Kenneth Coombs, Eliz Clayton, Damien
Manchego, Ann Levy, Herb Kaplan, Patrice Washington
****
Co-Chair Kinton called the meeting to order at 5:15 p.m.

Call to Order:
I.

Update on PA/VMS
Rick Clarke provided an update status of the communications systems on
T-REX. Rick acknowledged that the system implementation has been delayed from
the November 2006 date but a lot of progress has been made. He also responded
to a question by Director Kinton on what penalties are RTD deploying to the
contractor. Rick stated the contractor is paid based on progress and RTD is
currently withholding $5M retainage which will be released when the system is
accepted. The contractor is working with RTD to get the system installed and he
does not feel the need to add additional penalties.
When queried on what might be a realistic date to expect the system to be
operational, Rick responded mid-August, 2007.
Director McMullen expressed a need for RTD to choose our language carefully for

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, July 12, 2007
Page 2 of 5
display. Rick Clarke indicated we are learning how to properly use the system.
A copy of the presentation on the Status of Communications System on T-Rex is
available with the minutes in the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Notebook
retained in the Board office.
II.

Bus Stop at Cheeseman Park –
Director Elfenbein set the stage for the discussion which followed by providing
the history of this issue for the past two years. While stating there was no
action to be taken by the Board, he invited Councilwoman Jeanne Robb and
others to speak about their position.
Councilwoman Robb shared that the Cheeseman Master Plan that was adopted
approximately 1-1/2 years ago recommended that the stop be removed. After
much consideration and research on the issue, she now supports this
recommendation.
Director Elfenbein and RTD staff shared their position to remain with the status
quo and to take no action at this time.
Director Daly, who used to drive this route, appeared puzzled about why they
would want to remove this stop when it is such a beautiful and peaceful route.
Councilman Robb shared anecdotal data that the concern appears over
perception that the bus stop is being used for drug deals. Director Daly and the
staff commented on the impact to headway and other issues that would be
raised to try to move this route as recommended.
Frank King representing the Homeowner Association provided a perspective that
the purpose of the inner city park is to provide a sanctuary to the residents that
should be free from noise, crime and intrusion on the peacefulness of people
who want to use the park.
John Thornton, a vision impaired rider of route 10, shared that he has been a
regular rider for 10 years and has not experienced any confrontation or trouble
at the current bus stop. He feels the bus stop is safe and free from the alleged
danger or hazards that have been suggested.
Jeanne Elliot, a physically impaired supporter for the current bus stop, shared
that she had taken photos of the condition of the sidewalk and pathways that
are being proposed to move the bus stop. She discovered the sidewalk was
broken down and totally inaccessible for mothers with baby carriages or
physically challenged riders. Crossing Gilpin to get to the recommended new
stop would be unsafe as well. She also expressed that the new location being

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, July 12, 2007
Page 3 of 5
recommended is on the Franklin side which is considered the most dangerous
side of the park.
Damien Manchego represented the Cheeseman Park Advocacy Group.
Since this issue was not an action item, no action was taken by the Committee
and it remains at status quo at this time.
III.

Update on access-a-Ride Trip Purpose
Bruce Abel provided this update to a request from Director Elfenbein on the
breakdown on the purpose of the trips. The majority of the trips felled into
three categories:
Work related: approximately 34%
Medical Purposes: approximately 28%
Adult care: approximately 10 %

IV.

TIC (Mr. Nasty)
Director Daly provided some background on a caller to the TIC Center who has
been referred to in these minutes as Mr. Nasty. Mr. Nasty would make
obscene calls to the center. On one such occasion he was recorded having
made 24 such calls into the center. The Denver police was brought into this
situation and RTD provided them with a CD of the calls which the union had
given to Director Daly.
John Tarbert reported that due to a cell phone number that one of the TIC
operators was able to obtain and provide to the police, the suspect was
arrested on 7/11/07 and is in custody on sexual harassment phone call charges.
The suspect confessed to making some of these calls but did not have a reason
why.
Director McMullen inquired if RTD has a way to unblock numbers that are
called into the TIC and was told no at this time.

V.

Traffic Management at Nine-Mile –
Dave Genova stated that Nine Mile was part of the T-REX project but RTD is
currently evaluating what options we have to make some enhancements.
Director McMullen expressed safety concerns on the underpass tunnel that
people must travel and requested that RTD take a look at this as well.

VI.

Status of Customer Service Audit –
Tony McCauley provided a handout of the APTA Peer Review Guidelines and
explained the process for requesting a peer review.
The Directors were not in agreement on the value of this audit or the need to
have a customer service audit done. This discussion was tabled.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, July 12, 2007
Page 4 of 5

VII.

New Technology for Fare Collection –
Director Kinton inquired the status of where we are on credit card capabilities
and making the fare increases a little more palatable. Bruce Abel indicated they
have put together an interdepartmental task force comprised of people from
treasury, customer service, administration, and IT with a goal of reporting back
90 days from the June meeting.

VIII.

Follow-up on Ways to Enhance Our Partnering with other Entities (Cities,
States, TMOs, etc)
Director Kinton indicated this item may best be discussed in a Board retreat but
he wanted the team to begin thinking about partnering with other entities as the
secret to do more with less. This may be an opportunity to get more done with
less staff by partnering with other interested entities. RTD needs a mechanism
for making this happen.

IX.

Follow up on Special Event Services
Director Quinlan commented on the current process used by Bruce Abel’s group
for special services as perhaps a model to expand for other type of services.

X.

Follow up on Restroom Issues
Dave Genova explained that the Engineering group has been looking into this
issue and the associated costs. Other factors for consideration are security
issues and maintenance.

XI.

Ways to Avoid Playing Catch-Up
Director Kinton shared a perspective that RTD often plays catch up when new
malls, etc go in and he wanted discussion or policies on how we could be more
proactive in our planning process. He shared as an example SouthGlenn Mall.
Director Quinlan commented that while this may have been the situation in the
past, he thinks the TOD development has addressed this issue and RTD has
early involvement in the process.
Bill Porter responded that RTD has always been willing and open to work with
such development and he was happy to hear that SouthGlenn was open since
their previous experience with SouthGlenn is it was reluctant for fear people
would use their parking lot to catch the ride.

XII.

Existing Means and Opportunity to Expand Customer Input

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, July 12, 2007
Page 5 of 5
Director Kinton expressed the desire to receive feedback from the RTD
Marketing/Customer Support Focus Group and to see if this could be a vehicle
for getting more customer input.
XIII.

Ways to Make Sure “Customer Perspective” Gets heard and Decisions are not
Predominantly made from an Operations Point of View
Director Kinton used Auraria when the stop was moved as an example of how it
did not work well from the students or riders of the system perspective. Bill
Porter provided the explanation that the property belonged to Auraria who made
the decision to move the stop. RTD was not in favor of this move but the
decision rested with the owner of the property.
Bill Porter also cited the present example with the Cheeseman bus stop where
RTD is listening to the customer and has been advocating on behalf of the users
of the transit system to not move the stop as requested.

XIV.

Other Matters

XV.

Next Meeting Date -The next meeting date will be August 15, 2007 at 5:00
p.m.

XVI.

Adjournment - Hearing no objections, Co-Chair Kinton adjourned the meeting at 7:00
p.m.

