Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 18, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
March 18, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present. Two (2) were absent (Directors Brohl and Kinton)

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Felicitas Hardin, Division Supervisor, was present to receive her award for 29 years of service.
Felicitas stated she had really enjoyed her time at RTD and RTD has been good to her.
However, at 65 years of age, it is time to go.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Robert Baxter, Pine Junction, who represented the 285 Coalition, shared they have shown a
slight increase in the number of riders since RTD had installed the sign at the Park-n-ride. He
looks forward to a more permanent solution.
Jonathan Roseland, Denver, petitioned on behalf of the local entertainment and night life in
Denver for more late night service between 1:30-2:30 p.m. on Thursdays, Fridays and
Saturdays when the bars close.
Galen Foster, Lakewood, spoke of being a mom and pop owner for 23-24 years and how the
mom and pop businesses helped put this country together. He stated that TOD is forgetting
about the mom and pops in favor of big time developers for PPP. He feels this should be an
opportunity for mom and pops such as his business to work alongside the big developers and
share in some of the profit. He stated that in the years he has run his business, he has not
operated in the red. He concluded with an analogy of his love for his business with Ana Bella
Lee.
Tom Wambert, Colorado Property Rights Coalition, reminded the Board members this is an
election year. The Coalition is a 501C nonprofit group that can influence the voting public. He
stated that he had asked for a list of the people who will be affected and was told by RTD this
information will not be available until after the EIS has been completed. This will be too late
and not provide the property owners adequate time to respond. He then threatened to proceed
with legal action should this information not be forthcoming.
Russell Greear, Denver, expressed appreciation for the extra route 16 bus that had been added
but stated more buses are needed for the 8:00 traffic. He stated his appreciation to the Board

for being able to speak to the Board and be heard.
Dan Gallegos, Arvada, shared his story on how in 1987 RTD took his parents property and did
not provide fair market value. RTD promised to pay fair market value but it was all lies. His
parents got pennies on the dollar. With light rail came destruction, crime and chaos. He thinks
RTD stand for remove trample and destroy.
Rick McNeal, Denver, stated that the transit stop issues for the route 38 have been handled.
However, he referred to the stops along the route 84 where the old railroad ROW was
established that needs to be handled (i.e. Rudy Park, Decatur, etc).
Steve Fesch, Aurora, stated he was the only landowner near the light rail whose property has
been condemned. He has been on this battle for 5 months at the sacrifice of his personal life,
health, his family and his livelihood. He is not seeking RTD’s money but a fair treatment from
RTD for his property. He stated that RTD had assessed his property as 12,000 sq feet and
made an offer based on this versus the 16,000 sq. feet that he actually owns. He accused
RTD of trying to steal his land for TOD development. He appealed to the RTD Board of
Director’s sense of fairness and asked that they get more personally involved than they are
today. He then asked for a moment of silence for Leslie Fishburn.
Kim Snyder, Lakewood, expressed how she had spent the day groveling with the legislature to
keep her property. She asked the Board to look at their own moral compass in this issue.
Cordon McClurg, Denver, stated that he owns some property near the Auraria campus and is
looking for information on how he will be affected. He has not received notification from RTD
of eminent domain and expressed that he hope RTD will do the right thing with all the property
owners.
Jack McCrowsky, Denver, and former RTD Board member stated he had spent over 13 years
on the Board. He stated how in spite of the service, the Board act like they don’t know him.
He congratulated the Board for the salary increase and shared that he was instrumental in this
process beginning about 10 years ago to change from an appointed Board to an elected Board.
This became a public initiative where they established a $3000 annual salary that needed to
be increased since the Board has done a good job in a number of areas. On a less positive
note, what he is not proud of is how RTD is handling the condemnation of property and stated
RTD needs to act with decency and consideration for the rights of the property owners. He
stated again how poorly RTD is treating an 85 year old former Board member who had to fight
along with Gloria Holliday to get his rights heard.
Martin Wirth, Bailey, also represented the 285 Coalition. He stated they have seen an increase
in ridership due to the increase in fuel costs. They are looking at the annexation of Bailey and
look forward to continued efforts to expand this park-n-ride.
Dave Minshall recognized former Board member Jack McCrowsky and stated his appreciation
what Mr. McCrowsky had done. Dave stated he was in favor of a salary increase for the
Board but opposed this bill to send a message to RTD that something must be done about the
way they are treating property rights owners. The people have no voice. RTD must make this
a win-win. Board members should take an active role in condemnation.
Brian Waring spoke to the rebuttals that RTD had made around his comments on SB 1278. He
stated he still believes that RTD will be about $22B over when the FasTracks project is
complete given they are over 2B already and not one track has been laid. He stated he believe
there will be another $5-7B for indemnification matters. He stated there were 8 other points
where RTD is in violation of the state constitution. He concluded with RTD has an obligation
to respect the life of the citizens.

Chair Kemp then read a statement of position on eminent domain on behalf of the RTD Board
of Directors. RTD is not acquiring property through eminent domain for private developers.
Property that RTD is acquiring at the 14th & Wadsworth location is for the 1000 space parking
structure that RTD needs. RTD follows the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance
and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 which is the same process used by Federal,
State and local governments. This is the process used for the T-REX project to acquire
property. Fair market value is paid and governed by Federal and State law. RTD is following
the proper rules and regulations set for eminent domain.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes or comments to the Committee reports.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF February 19, 2008
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the February 19,
2008 regular board meeting minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor (Busck,
Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Directors Brohl and Kinton were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. APTA 2008 Legislative Conference, Washington, D.C., March 9-12
Cal Marsella, General Manager, Sherri Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer and Board
Directors, Busck, Daly, McMullen and Chair Kemp attended the APTA 2008 Legislative
conference in Washington D.C. They had the opportunity to meet with the Colorado
Congressional Delegation to provide project updates on DUS, West Corridor and PPP. The
meetings were very productive. RTD requested the support from the Colorado delegation
in Washington. Senator Ken Salazar subsequently sent a letter to the FTA providing
support to the transit effort.
2. RTD Participation in the Transit Alliance Conference on Public Private Partnerships, March
18, 2008
Cal Marsella presented at the Transit Alliance conference on PPP. Six Board members
were in attendance. Jane Bird was the keynote speaker.
3. Host of Executive team from Rochester-Genesee Regional Transportation Authority, March
18-19,2008
RTD hosted a delegation from The Rochester-Genesee Regional Transportation Authority
which consisted of Mark Aesch, CEO, Stephen Hendershott, COO, Robert Frye, CFO,
Deborah Griffith, CAO, Harold Carter, General Counsel and April Jordan, Executive
Management Assistant.
4. West Corridor Elected Officials Briefing, March 14, 2008
Cal Marsella attended the elected official briefing with Directors Ruchman and Pulliam.
Most of the City Council members were in attendance. RTD developed excellent rapport
with the participants.

5. Other Matters
While in Washington D.C., the RTD representatives had the opportunity to meet with
Congressman Tom Tancredo who shared that he had initially opposed FasTracks but he
recognized that he was wrong. He now applauds the efforts of FasTracks.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-E.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors Brohl and
Kinton were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Parsons Transportation Group for the
Southeast Corridor Extension Environmental Evaluation/Basic Engineering (EE/BE)
Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Parsons Transportation
Group to perform an Environmental Evaluation study and Basic Engineering for the
Southeast Corridor Extension project. The contract award will be in the amount of
$2,073,699. Funding for this contract is included in the 2008 Adopted Budget for the
Southeast Corridor Extension project and in the FasTracks financial plan for 2009 and
2010.

B.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Parsons Transportation Group for the
Southwest Corridor Extension Environmental Evaluation/Basic Engineering (EE/BE)
Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Parsons Transportation
Group (PTG) to perform an Environmental Evaluation (EE) study and Basic Engineering
(BE) for the Southwest Corridor Extension project. The contract award will be in the
amount of $2,193,669.
It is also recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $600,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding for the 2008 portion of the contract.
This action is required because the funds appropriated in the 2008 RTD Budget were
not sufficient to cover both the costs of the EE/BE and the cost of the Lucent property
acquisition. However, the total funding for this contract and the property acquisition is
included in the overall Southwest Corridor Extension Project budget as part of the
FasTracks Financial Plan for 2008 – 2010. The 2008 Budget Amendment process will
address the budget allocation issue and restore the FasTracks Contingency Reserve.

C.

IT Consultant – Universe/Legacy Programmers (Exercise Second Year Option)

It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise the
second one year option in the amount of $300,000 to extend the current contract for
non-personal services for an IT Consultant-UniVerse/Legacy Programmer (16DK001).
This contract was originally awarded May 1st, 2006 to 5280 Solutions, LLC (a WSCA
company) through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year
plus three one year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The
total contract amount with this option year requires Board approval. The second one
year option is to begin on May 1, 2008 and remain in effect for one year until April 30,
2009.

IX.

D.

Exercise the Option to Purchase 99 Replacement and 44 Expansion access-a-Ride
Cutaway Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the option to purchase 99
replacement and 44 expansion cutaway buses to be used by access-a-Ride. The option
price is not to exceed $52,000 each for a total award not to exceed $7,436,000.

E.

Fares Adjustments for Special Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that RTD’s fare
structure for special services (RockiesRide, BroncosRide, BuffRide, RunRide, CU/CSU
Football games at Invesco Field and Race for the Cure) be adjusted as indicated in
Attachment A in order to comply with the new Federal Transit Administration
regulations regarding the provision of charter services.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
F.

RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2008 RTD BOARD OPERATING GUIDELINES

MOTION:

Director Yamrick made the motion to approve the
2008 RTD Board Operating Guidelines.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0
against. Directors Brohl and Kinton were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XI.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Yamrick congratulated the RTD I-225 corridor team for their presentation and making
everyone comfortable with the process they are following.

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion
to move into Executive Session for
the purpose to discuss C.R.S. 246-402(d) Security briefing.
Director
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Chacon seconded the

A voice vote was taken with 13
members in favor (Busck, Chacon,
Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Martinez,
McMullen,
Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and
Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors
Brohl and Kinton were absent.

Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 6:40 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, March 18, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Dennis Cole
Sherry Ellebracht
Lloyd Mack
Tony McCaulay
Liz Rao
Cal Shankster
John Tarbert
Bill Van Meter

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District C
District J
District N
District A
District L
District G
District M
District F

Bill Bell
Ron Dodsworth
David Genova
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Pauletta Tonilas
Phil Washington

Rick Clarke
Phil Eberl
Marla Lien
Cal Marsella
John Berry
Daria Serna
Michael Sinclair
Lisa Trujillo
Susan Wood

OTHERS PRESENT:
Steve Gee (Spectrum A/V)
Debbie Griffith (Rochester – Genesee Regional Transportation Authority)
Hal Carter (Rochester – Genesee Regional Transportation Authority)
Mark Aesch (Rochester – Genesee Regional Transportation Authority)
Robert Frye (Rochester – Genesee Regional Transportation Authority)
Steven Hendershott (Rochester – Genesee Regional Transportation Authority)
April Jordan (Rochester – Genesee Regional Transportation Authority)
Robert Baxter (Riders 285 Coalition)
Steven Ruesch (Siemens)
Janet Arrowood
Joanna Morisicato (Stantec)
Ed Colby (URS)
Patrick Young (aXess Entertainment Group)
Jonathan Roseland (aXess Entertainment Group)
Rick McNeal
Steve Fesch
Cordon McClurg (Jones Heartz Lime Co., Inc.)
Brian Murphy (BT)
Brian Middleton
John Maslanik
Bill James
Kent Bagfey
Eric Biga (Veolia)
Bruce Behncke (Veolia)

Robin Kniech (FRESC)
Holman Carter (ATU Local 1001)
Jack McCroskey
L.W. Morrow
Martin Wirth (Riders 285.org)
Kyle Keahey (Parsons)
Felicitas Hardin (RTD Retiree)
Joe Hardin
Buzz Calkins (Bradley Petroleum)
Peter Lorenzen
David Minshall
Joseph Weaver
Brian Wareing
Ron Arave
Galen Foster (Pro Tint)
Kim Snyder (Pro Tint)
Tom Wambolt (Colorado Property Rights Coalition)
Linda Wambolt (Colorado Property Rights Coalition)
Michelle Halstead (CDOT)
Russell Greear
Dan Gallegos

