Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 12, 2012

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on June 12, 2012 Revised
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen, Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Daly,
Deadwyler, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams
and Walker
Directors Anderson, Hoy, and James

Staff Present:
Bruce Abel, Skip Brown, Frank Buczkowski. Garrett Christnacht,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Ed
Gonzales, Cory Granrud, Kate Iverson ,Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Pat McLaughlin, Paula Perdue, Carla
Perez, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt
Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil
Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood
Others Present:
Joni Goheen, Jane Donovan, Julie Skeen, George Gerstle, Claudia
Folska, Jennifer Brandeberry – Brandeberry-McKenna, Bill Mosher,
Jacob Riger - DRCOG, Debra Wilcox,
****
Call to Order

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. Committee Chair
Cohen arrived shortly thereafter.

Chair Kemp announced that Del Walker has accepted a position at another company
and will be leaving RTD. Del will be greatly missed and we are very happy to have
had him as part of our team. Good luck with everything.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 2
I.

Updates


DUSPA
Bill Mosher gave a brief summary and presentation on DUSPA sharing that every
other month a visual tour of the project is done. We are currently in Phase III. We
are about $316M dollars into the project, about two-thirds done with the BRT
and about 70% done with the LRT. The LRT plaza is projected to be open to the
public on May 18th. Bill Mosher provided photos of various development
properties along this space. This development is sparking some investment in the
area, probably a billion dollars worth of investment.
Bill Mosher gave an update on DBE participation with Kiewit. The construction
goal is at 16% with anticipated DBE contracts of 17.9%; the design goal is 15%
with an anticipated DBE contract of 15.7% and other contracts (CRL) goal of
12% with an anticipated DBE contract of 30%.
Discussion:
Director Cohen commented that he is excited to see how quickly progress is
being made especially looking at the absorption chart and actual pre versus post
recession, it is very encouraging. He thanks staff for all their hard work.
Director O’Boyle questioned that with the planning versus actual and retail being
behind, is the FDA or anyone a little concerned about that? Bill Mosher stated he
hasn’t checked on the tax payments but the big issue is getting retail tenants; it
is real tough. Our team has been working with a grocer for a long time. The
grocer wants parking for free.
Director Bagley thanked Bill Mosher and Mike Sullivan, and shared since he has
been involved he believes a wonderful relationship has been developed between
RTD and DUSPA. The relationship helps mesh everything together. Bill Mosher
responded by saying the credit goes to the whole team, to the builders, and
everyone involved.
Director Williams inquired who the developer of the Cadence apartments is. Bill
Mosher responded, Zofto & Wood Partners.
Director McMullen inquired where lots A and B are located. Bill Mosher
responded the lots are located in three different parts of the development, portion
of lot A is located by the apartments as well as on the north wing of the
development. Lot B is located between the north and south wing across from the
tracks.
Director Tobiassen asked Bill Mosher to elaborate on the retail parking
requirements. Bill stated the retailers drive the retail parking; the city will not
dictate that. On the office space tenants want between 1 to 1.3 spaces per
1,000 square feet. On the residential side there are about 29 parking spaces and
though some of them will be reserved parking, they will be available to the public
on evenings and weekends. Director Tobiassen questioned with only 29 spaces
for residential, that doesn’t cover all apartment tenants so does the remaining

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 3
having to pay for a parking space. Bill responded yes, most will have to pay
extra.


II.

CAC
Debra Wilcox gave a brief update that on May 16th they were able to take a tour
of the East rail line. We each brought some constituents and they appreciated
this opportunity. It was a great. We were asked by DRCOG to be part of 2040
visioning. About 11 members participated. Debra stated that in her group,
transit was probably one of the most important things that people felt was
important for 2040. Our committee came away with a lot of positive thoughts
and extends the invitation to Board members to attend their quarterly outreach
meeting on June 20th from 6-8 pm at the Aurora Municipal Center. Debra stated
that they stand ready to support the Board on all projects and are very excited
about RTD’s future.

Recommended Action


Authorization to Award the Construction Contract for the US 36 Queue Jumps
Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a construction contract with Concrete Express Inc. in the
amount of $2,529,000.00 for the construction of the US 36 Queue Jumps. Funding
for this project is included in the 2012 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks program
through a federal American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) grant.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the June 26, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Cohen reminded the Board that in 2009 they moved this
forward with the initial engineering and design so in many respects,
this is a coming to fruition if you will and following it through to
completion.
John Shonsey shared that currently they are proposing a divergent
diamond interchange. If they do this type of interchange it eliminates
the possibility of driving through the interchange and having a direct
route to the other side. This would remove the benefits we would
receive from the Queue Jump. At this point all we’re doing is asking
authorization if this diverging interchange does not go through. If they
do garner the money for this we would not spend the money on Queue
Jumps. We will not proceed until we are assured one way or the other
what is happening with that interchange. Director Cohen asked if

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 4
tonight’s action is a placeholder action. John Shonsey responded yes
with a 60 day time frame. Director O’Boyle asked how long the bids
are good for and when do we expect a decision. John Shonsey states
we have until July 10th to exercise or ask for an extension and we
should expect a decision shortly; we are in talks with Superior and
Louisville. Director O’Boyle stated that it would be good if you have
the option to extend this now. John responded, this funding is from a
grant and we would need to do something with the grant money if we
do not apply it to this project.
Chair Kemp stated before the Board approves the action, he wants to
make sure that this ends up on the recommended action, not the
unanimous consent so we can then discuss again in two weeks.
Director Daly expressed some curiosity about the Bus Bypass lane.
There is a bridge on US36, are we planning on going under that bridge.
John Shonsey responded we would create a separate lane that is a
bus only lane.
Director Williams questioned if we’ve set a drop dead date. John
stated the initial drop dead date was by the end of June.
Director McMullen asked if any of the money for this project is coming
from the adopted budget as well as the ARRA grant. John responded
yes, 80/20.
Director McMullen asked for clarity with the DBE and SBE goals,
wondering if DBE is referring to the ARRA money and SBE referring to
the non ARRA money. John responded that is correct.
Director Tobiassen suggested the Board look out on you tube at a
video of how the interchange works.
Director Tayer stated he believes the interchange will be good for
traffic along the entire corridor. He appreciates the flexibility and
believes it is great to keep the grant alive but make a decision. He
stated he was excited to support the action.
Director O’Boyle commented to John Shoney, you mentioned that this
type of interchange will likely fail, but given our current traffic loads on
US 36 and McCaslin Bridge, can you translate that into expected
traffic loads in years. John clarified the statement by saying that
without the interchange the current system will fail sometime in the
2020 time frame; that is just a guess.
Director O’Boyle asked if that opinion was made known to the
contractors, stakeholder, and public. John responded that the other
interested parties were the ones that made it known to RTD.
Director Cohen questioned if the diamond interchange was better

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 5
functioning than the Queue Jump. John Shonsey responded that each
type of interchanges have its own functions. The diamond interchange
would prevent buses from using the ramp so we would have to
relocate access to the bus stops.
Director Deadwyler expressed concern about the possibility of wasting
money because in looking at Louisville and Superior, they have a
preference for a different model and we put in this Queue jump and
down the road they put in their preference then we’ve wasted all that
money. John Shonsey responded that if for two or three years we
have the Queue Jumps we would have gained efficiency and would
buy back if not all, a substantial amount of the money.

Vote on
the motion:

The action passed 11 in favor
(Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker and
Williams) and 1 against (Kemp)
Directors Anderson, Hoy, and
James were absent.
Committee Chair Cohen called the
action PASSED.



Authorization to enter into agreement with 36 commuting solutions and to
amend contract with Schiedt & Bachmann for US 36 BRT Ticket Vending
Machines
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an agreement with 36 Commuting Solutions
to receive funds in the amount of $781,000 to provide ticket vending machines
(TVMs) for the US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project.
Susan Cohen gave a brief overview of the financial impact of this item. She
stated that this item is a two part action; (1) to enter into an IGA to accept the
funds and (2) to amend the contract.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the June 26, 2012 Board
meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 6

Chair Kemp seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Tobiassen asked if we are going to smart cards, will we still
need the TVM’s; are they compatible with the smart cards? and will
the visually impaired be able to use them? Frank Buczkowski
responded yes, they are compatible with the smart cards and all of the
machines met ADA requirements. They would use the keypads on the
machines versus the machine speaking to them.
Director Deadwyler asked what the track record of the company
providing the machines was. Frank Buczkowski responded that several
areas have had some issues in the past with the machines due to
budget restraints, the inability to upgrade and maintain the machines,
those were all area specific but all and all the TVM’s have been very
reliable. Rick Clarke added that originally RTD used another vendor for
the TVM’s but when they did the Southeast project all of the those
machines were replaced and they have been very reliable over the past
twelve years. TVM’s have a great track record; they have upheld in all
climates of the weather and believe that they will continue to be
reliable.
Director Deadwyler expressed concern that if the machines didn’t
work that great before in other parts of the city and required a lot of
maintenance, then why would we want to use them. Frank
Buczkowski responded that the areas where the machines do not or
did not work were areas that had turn style, custom built systems as
at the County Line station. They were put in place in hopes of keeping
the expenses down, and it was a jury rigged system to comply with
the request of Park Meadows. The TVM’s on this proposal are not
those units used at County Line.
Director McMullen expressed some concern about the inability to see
the screen due to when there is a direct hit from the sun. Frank
Buczkowski responded that the issue with the direct sun light hitting
the screens is a problem nationwide. During the installation of these
machines, location of where they are put has been one of our main
focuses. We would like for all the machines to face north/northeast in
hopes of them not being in the direct path of the sun as from the
south or place some type of covering over the machines for shade.
Director Malpiede asked how much money was allocated to the US 36
project. Rick Clarke responded he was not sure of that figure but
believes it to be around $82M.The completion of phase one was
$18M, so believes that figure may be around 64M.
Director Daly shared that he took a tour on the BRT and noticed that it
is designed for the quick, well timed on and off honor system, having

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 7
no contact with the driver; however, with the honor system we would
need to provide fare inspectors,. Was that factored into the budget at
all? Frank Buczkowski responded that we still need to work out a BRT
operating plan if we get that type of bus.
Director Williams asked can you use a credit card with these TVM’s.
She stated she has received lots of feedback and believes we need to
focus more on customer services needs. She expressed her lack of
confidence that we have not covered the entire basis for people with
disabilities. She is not in favor of approving this tonight but hopes
something can be done to raise her confidence later. She expressed a
need for a totally integrated system.
General Manager Washington stated that the smart card technology
brings us closer to an integrated system. We are also making fare
media easier and are in ADA compliance. However, we need to keep
in mind what this action is. We are receiving money that we can
recognize in our budget as capital revenue assets.
As Frank mentioned we have had challenges with the TVM’s at
County Line; they are a totally different system.
Director Williams stated it is appreciated that we are receiving this
money but the problem is whether receiving money or not when we
put a technology into use and we have to retrofit we need to re-teach
our consumers.
Director Tayer asked if these machines are any different than what we
already have in place on the West rail line. Frank stated no. Director
Tayer stated so we are talking about using a grant to purchase the
existing technology so we should proceed forward.
Vote on
the motion:

The action passed with 9 in favor
(Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Walker) 2 against
(Tobiassen, and Williams).
Director Anderson, Hoy, and James
were absent.
Committee Chair Cohen called the
action PASSED.

III.

Updates
 FasTracks Program Moving Forward
General Manager Washington gave a brief informational presentation on moving
forward with FasTracks. He shared it is the preference of the staff to submit a

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 8
RTP Amendment in August and a full blown report will be issued after approval
of the amendment approximately 12 months later in early 2014.
Marla Lien gave a quick snap shot of the RTP Amendment (TABOR) and the
impact of future debt service from a legal perspective.
Discussion:
Director Cohen asked the Board if the approach that the staff has laid out
commensurate with what the Boards expectations is. He was looking for head
nods.
Director Tayer stated that to him it is much more of a loaded response that can’t
be answered with just a head nod. He shared first, from the regional hat
perspective he thinks staff is doing the responsible thing. For obvious reasons it
makes sense to prioritize our efforts to build FasTracks based on opportunities
that present themselves. We know we are not moving forward in the near term
with the tax initiative so we need to move forward in a responsible way. Tayer
believed this is appropriate approach also because this is an interim effort until
such time that we are able to fully analyze our situation and opportunities.
However, Director Tayer stated that as a representative of the Northwest
Corridor, he wanted to express a statement of concern of how he would like
things to move forward. He prefaced this with his comments about the relatively
small progress on BRT which he find ironic given the mega millions we have
passed when we talked about new West Corridor, East corridor, and DIA
significant funding issues. While he is sympathetic to points made about
systems, what comes to his mind is the relative nickel and dime approach we
have taken to the BRT system in the Northwest Corridor. It is not an $800M
dollar project or a $2 billion DIA to Golden project but we are talking about a
$2.9M dollar commitment that RTD made to the US 36 corridor that is being
largely funded through the tolling system that communities have committed to
pay. The community made monumental efforts to get grants without RTD’s
assistance; they have cobbled together funding for that project. That community
is aware of the major challenges that RTD is dealing with and the plans that are
being made on how to build that project out and if it is the right project. It is not
clear on how to get rail to the Northwest Corridor.
Director Tayer stated that given the difficulties and challenges ahead, he would
ask staff to look at several things:
o Vision—RTD owes a fresh effort to the US 36 corridor to clarify
investment in the Northwest Rail. RTD needs to convene and help fund
investigation of the options/alternatives for the NW.
o What is the correct number of the commitment to Northwest Rail? RTD
has actually committed $92M to the Northwest Rail which included the
$10M for bike lanes.
o When implemented, BRT needs commitment to operations fund for this
service lane
o Other improvements along the Burlington Northern like quiet zones, parkn-rides, etc.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 9
Director Williams requested a meeting to tweak the process in place. She is
concerned about the DRCOG $60M projects and impact on the Northwest
Corridor which may be in jeopardy. General Manager Washington responded it is
difficult to talk about this without dates and timelines but the DRCOG 208 is a
political statement.
Director O’Boyle commented that the approach is rational. This is an extremely
complex decision which we should take before the stakeholders and provide the
economics and let them make the decision. There is a way around this which is
to divide our district into autonomous areas, say here is the money you have, and
how do you want to use it. We are in a situation that no one even contemplated
when FasTracks was proposed and passed. We need to understand that kind of
bang for the buck we get. We have one stated unsolicited proposal; we have the
Mayor’s statement that he is on board with private funding so he thinks that is
fine and something we should consider. It is an extremely complex position RTD
is in but he does believe that staff is doing a great job and the recommendations
provide the right starting approach.
General Manager Washington stated that this leveraging of public and private
funds is in the presentation for a reason. We are aggressively pursuing the things
that O’Boyle mentioned. We have coined the phrase P4 (public, public, private
partnership). This is a delicate dance of studying, researching and analyzing
things that are not in the FasTracks plan in terms of funding it. The Board must
be aware that as we talk about analyzing things that are not part of the plan,
there is cost associated with that.
There is a lot of talk about what we are not doing but we have the Northwest
Rail groundbreaking on June 28th. We have the first 6.2 miles of the Eagle P3 laid
down. We are going to remain agile, flexible, and be bold as we are going to be
presenting you with the things as they come, especially with the market and
opportunities. There will be some tough decisions that the Board will have to
make.
Director Malpiede stated that this has been a difficult process and we clearly
have the best staff in the country. RTD has a lot to celebrate. We need to
refocus on the positive. She believes this is a great approach and a real
collaborative model.
Chair Kemp stated he believes that the approach given by staff is a good
approach and was heading in the right direction. Director Kemp shared in regards
to Director Tayer’s comments, from day one the Northwest Corridor has adapted
to change; they have been good stewards so we need to give them credit for
that. We need to make sure that we continue to do outreach to stakeholders
about additional alternatives. We need to come up with something that we can
support and have our stakeholders feel like they have a say and have their arms
around, something that they can move forward with. Chair Kemp supports
Director Tayer but more importantly the people of the corridor for working with
the constant change that they have had to endure. Thank you for your
understanding. We need to spend our money wisely and need to continue giving

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 10
a collaborative effort and move forward.
We need to lock down what the real dollar amount is for Northwest Rail.
Director Cohen stated there is nothing to vote on with this update but asked the
Board through a nodding of heads to give staff a sense that they are on the right
track. Several of the Board members nodded they supported this approach.
IV.

Other Matters
Director Cohen shared that several of the Directors including himself attended the
Rail Conference in Dallas, Texas this month and found it to be substantive and
informational. He had gotten beneficial information by attending the DBE/SBE
segment.
Director McMullen and Director Malpiede agreed that it was a great conference and a
great DBE/SBE session.
Chair Kemp shared that RTD’s maintenance team took first place and will be honored
at the Board meeting on June 26, 2012.

V.

Next meeting date – July 3, 2012

VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:46 p.m to the Planning and Development Committee
Meeting.

