2022-01-25
Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. I will now call the Tuesday January 25, 2022 RTD Board meeting to order.
We are convened as a 5:30 PM Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless
you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings
of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. Visit RTD-Denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
Colleagues being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values we can all agree upon.
As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website.
Thank you. Director Whitmore, would you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
TROY WHITMORE: I would be happy to do so. Please join me.
ALL: I Pledge Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Thank you, Treasurer Whitmore. I appreciate it. And Director Rosenthal, would
you please do us the honor of reading the land acknowledgment.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let me call it up here. The RTD Board of Directors
acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute,
Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We
honor our Indigenous elders, who have traveled inhabited and stewarded these mountains, hills, and
plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to
dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples and
recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we move forward.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that Director Rosenthal. Ms. McManus would you please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: And I'm here too. So with 15 present and 0 absence, we do have a quorum. You all know
that RTD, safety is paramount. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing.
The Transit Security Administration the TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement for public
transportation until March 18, 2022. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a
face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation to include airports and aircraft, train
stations and trains, bus stops and buses.
Next on the agenda are retiree awards. There are no retiree awards for this evening. First quarter retiree
awards will be announced at the March Board of Directors meeting. Next is public participation. This is
open to anyone who would like to address the Board.
New this year, any of those who would like to but are unable to speak at the meeting time may submit in
writing to RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com for their comments to be read into the record. Board
Office staff did not receive any emails prior to this meeting. As is our custom, we will allow any of our
elected officials present to speak first. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either
raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If
you dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to
be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing, and you will not have the
opportunity to speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board,
please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address, Board.Office@RTDDenver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names.
Each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Speakers, please refrain from profane or obscene
obscene speech, direct your comments to the Board as a whole, and refrain from personal attacks. Ms
McManus, do we have any speakers in the queue?

BARBARA MCMANUS: I see, yes, one speaker. And that would be M. Scott Ramming.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Ramming, would you please state your name and then you may proceed.
MICHAEL SCOTT RAMMING: There we go. I realized I've got a couple of Windows. So I'm Dr. Michael
Scott Ramming PE, residents of the Cole neighborhood in District C. In a different forum, I provided
information on my discontentment with the conduct of the Board officer elections a few weeks ago. I
apologize that this has been my first opportunity to speak to the Board.
I've looked at your bylaws, and I see that the requirements of election monitors are rather minimal-simply that they do not run for office. I would encourage the Board to adopt one of two models that would
allow for greater transparency and confidence in the process.
One model is that of the UN election monitor, who are entirely neutral and don't get involved with the
actions of the election other than counting in your case. The other would be the election judges-- partisan
election judges that we use in our state and local elections. In that case, they're appointed by political
parties.
Since the RTD Board is non-partisan, I think that each candidate for an office should be permitted to
select their own monitor, which would mean then that the Chair would not need to. So I hope that you find
these suggestions valuable, constructive criticism, and give them due consideration. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments, Director Ramming. Ms. McManus, next participant?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no other hands in the queue.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. With no other members of the public in the queue, we will close the public
participation period at this time. Next on the agenda, we're going to move something up that is listed
under the General Manager's report, and that is the Advisory Committee reports. We'll start with our first
Advisory Committee guest, Tex Elam, to report out on the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory
Committee. Please proceed, sir.
TEX ELAM: Thank you. The committee met about two weeks ago. Several issues came up which are, I
think, of interest to the Board. The Access-a-Ride had set up a basis for permitting three packages on
Board a vehicle.
It was questioned by the committee. It was reviewed by the Access-a-Ride board-- or the Access-a-Ride
body. That was determined to be a false measurement, and so it is now the fact that there is no limitation
on the amount of packages that a member can bring.
However, that member is then while traveling responsible for the full protection of those products. So they
can't roll around. They can't bother others. And therefore, it's a flexible approach, which we hope will
work. If not, it will be reviewed.

Dispatch and scheduling has been, as you know, transferred from route match to a different group, which
is called HBSS. And I'm afraid I don't know what HBSS stands for. But in that transition, there were some
difficulties as would not be unexpected.
And so they came out. It's an experienced company in this task. They came out for three days in
December. Things have improved, and so it looks like that transition is going to now go much more
comfortably.
Third is something that you are no doubt aware of, but we were advised that tickets-- there's an app now
going to be available that you can buy tickets on, not only local and extended tickets but all kinds of
tickets for all services that RTD renders. And that will be available, hopefully, in February if not for March.
Fourth, there has been an Uber pilot project of great significance, and that has been at eight locations,
small locations. That has now been expanded to the whole system. I say expanded, which is true,
however, people don't know about it yet, because the availability to expand it came before the process
was completed to accomplish it.
The project means that Uber-- the people can ride-- this is Access-a-Ride people-- can ride an Uber by
calling. One has to get first an application, fill that out. Then you will be treated-- if you're not in a
wheelchair, you will be treated as a regular Uber customer. Those people are being trained to accomplish
that.
It's a curb to curb service, not a door to door service. You have to be at the curb to get on. The cost is first
$2 paid by the passenger. The next up to $20 paid by RTD.
Beyond that, one is vulnerable for the fees that Uber charges, and it's necessary to remember that Uber
charges different fees at different times for different reasons, but that most of us consider to be an
enormous opportunity. There's more to that, but that's the basic part of that particular situation. And a
piece of information is that 75% of Access-a-Ride are not in wheelchairs. 25% are.
Fixed route specialty-- fixed route specs, for several months there have been studies about requirements
of new equipment coming on Board. And so in December, as a matter of fact, the maintenance people
invited many groups to look at the specifications and the opportunities for modifying specifications to be
considered. The conversations took place, and most were impressed with the conversations. However,
the buses that will arrive either late this year or early next year, specifications had already been
completed so that the efforts that have just now been made will not become effective until the next set of
buses after the ones that are about to arrive.
Lastly, there has been a new guide put out for Access-a-Ride users. Once it was distributed for review, it
was found to be so long or considered so long by the committee members that there was complaint to the
level that it was decided to try again. And so now there is a reduced size guide. Which, of course, in
opportunity to be reduced, it leaves many things to be considered in other vehicles, other situations, such
as in a guide-- an extended guide or else wise. End of my report.

VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Elam, thanks so much for that information, that report. Thanks also for your continued
work on the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee. Next, we're going to move on to Jamie Lewis
from the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities. Mr. Lewis?
JAMIE LEWIS: Thank you. Good evening, Directors. Thank you for having ACPD on your agenda tonight.
I'm pleased to report that we have five new committee members. They attended their first meeting on the
20th of January. Each has excellent backgrounds and experiences that will help ACPD provide good
recommendations to RTD.
We are currently working with RTD Human Services to develop job descriptions that do not make it
prohibitive for persons with disabilities for applying for jobs at RTD. Some of the older requirements like
must be able to lift pounds or applicants must travel to other cities for training have been striked.
We are also working on identifying skill sets that we can share with training centers and other educational
institutions to help prepare persons with disabilities for the workforce. There is a subcommittee that works
with RTD from ACPD and volunteer job placement organizations to make improvements to RTD's
retention of persons with disabilities Gabe Christie and staff are working on developing an ADA complaint
sign that will be on all fixed route buses. This will help RTD identify any gaps in services or policy issues,
problems identified by the riders. ACPD has seen a draft and has provided Mr. Christie with feedback.
Several of our members volunteered to work with RTD and DOTI of Denver on the transit speed and
reliability focus group and will provide more information as that group develops. ACPD has asked for a
service review for the 83L. Our concern is that the 83L goes by the Denver Health Hospital but does not
service the hospital. Several of our members-- so we're asking RTD to do a service review on that.
Several of our members, like the last speaker said, visited the Blake Street bus complex to review specs
for fixed route buses. So I won't spend too much time on that, because it's already been spoken of.
And finally, I want to report I have received nothing but positive compliments about Gabe Christie, your
new ADA Coordinator. He came on about four or five months ago. We find him very invested and has
given both a ACPD and RTD staff the information we need to make good decisions for both ADA access.
So that is our report. If there's any questions, you can either email or ask them now.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Jamie. Thanks for that report and for your work on the ACPD. Any questions?
Great.
JAMIE LEWIS: Thank you, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry?
JAMIE LEWIS: Thank you, sir
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Next, we have Joanna Machado from the Citizens Advisory Committee for a
report and update. Joanna, go ahead.

JOANNA MORSICATO: Thank you. I believe the last time we did an update was sometime in the fall of
2021. And so I'm going to go back to September and make a couple of quick comments to get us up to
the present. My fellow co-chair, Matt Appelbaum, had hosted that presentation.
We've gained four new members to our CAC. Three of them came on in September to fill openings, and
then we had somebody who moved out of the district more recently. So we added a fourth person. That
was more recently than September.
In October, we had a Reimagine workshop where we looked at prioritizing potential future scenarios, and
I'm not going to dwell on that one. In November, we were very happy to have Debra Johnson come and
meet with us for a Q&A, and we really appreciate when she comes to talk with us and look forward to the
next time she comes to visit. In December, we had an interesting session. Senator Faith Winter came and
talked to us.
She very much encouraged our group to support RTD's use of two funding sources. One is the Senate
Bill 260 multi-modal funds for operations under construction, and the other was air quality improvement
funds maybe to be used to pay for some free transit fares on bad air days. We had a lot of questions for
Senator Winter, and it was a good session. We concluded, though, that we really needed to hear more
directly from RTD, which is what led us to our January meeting agenda.
Two important events happened in January, which is quite recently. One is that we actually host a public
meeting on the redistricting with RTD. There were a couple members of the public that listened in, but
mostly this was us. It was the CAC who asked a cross-section of comments, and those are available if
anyone's interested.
Our group really wanted to keep communities in the same district. On the other hand, we also realized
that sometimes it might be useful to have a larger community spread across more than one district,
maybe like Boulder, where you'd get more attention from more than one Board member. So we had some
mixed thoughts about that.
Ultimately, we looked at the two options that were offered up, the alternative E, which is a minimal map
change, and alternative F, which was an equal population map. We generally kind of supported the idea
of the alternative E, which is a concept of keeping the populations and the districts plus or minus 5% of an
average. Ultimately, it seemed those differences were quite minimal so that it wouldn't make huge
changes to any of the districts.
Then came after we had that public meeting, we then went into a presentation by Michael Davies from the
RTD Government Relations Office. And he helped us to better understand what Faith Winter had been
talking about and what RTD's position on some of these funds might be. Although it was not official-- it
was more of just an informative session-- he talked about the Senate Bill 260 funds. And we really
learned that this could be available for transit operations and construction, but it really doesn't represent a
very large piece of RTD's operations budget needs.

And something like 85% of the funding goes to the MPOs, such as through Dr. Cogg, and the other 15%
goes to CDOT. Michael spent some time summarizing the transportation improvement program process,
and we realize that RTD can't really count on funding from this type of source for future years for
operations. Maybe this kind of funding could be useful for some specific construction project, more than
for operation needs.
And then the second type of funding we talked about was the ozone air quality improvement funds that
maybe could be used for fare programs. And these are also funds that would come available statewide.
Our general conclusion was a little bit based on some of the other cities experiences. That although it's
really good PR to promote transit on bad air days, the results in the short term would not be to create a
notable increase in ridership, and we didn't think the air quality would improve that much either on the
short term.
On the other hand, a continued approach of this sort could have positive long term effects. It's just not a
quick fix. So we were very happy to have the RTD perspective brought to our attention. At this point, we
haven't made any further comments. The last thing that came up at our January meeting was that we
were asked to provide a CAC member for a working group that's being created to study the concept of the
subregional service councils, which is from the Accountability Committee recommendations, and we will
provide a representative for that.
Very briefly, our next meeting in February has two agenda items, which we're interested in pursuing. One
is based to look at the proposed policies that pertain to the Title VI equity analysis and policies on major
service changes and desperate impacts and disproportionate burdens thresholds for service fare and
facility siting changes. So we're excited to have that come before us, and we also will have a presentation
on the city of Denver's Citywide Speed and Reliability Study. And I have to admit, I don't know much
about that. So it will be an interesting presentation.
And lastly, we are looking to create-- and this is tentative-- an in-person meeting with Zoom options for
our March session, somewhat because we realize that quite a number of our committee members have
never seen each other face-to-face. And so we're going to see if we can pull that off. And of course,
people who want to do the Zoom meetings still can. And that ends my report. Thank you for inviting me.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Joanna. You guys had an action packed agenda. And thanks for all the work you
do. The CAC does a lot of great work, and we get that information. And believe me, we use it. Director
Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to say how impressed I am with the reports that you
all have provided us and the work that you all are doing. The work is meaningful, and you all are having
the opportunity to engage your input and your expertise while also learning more about the agency.
And I am just thoroughly impressed with the content and so excited to see staff engaged in this way. And
so thank you for your work for each of you that has presented today. I am just blown away at your efforts
and your engagement. So thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Lewis. Yeah. Thanks everybody that gave reports for the Advisory
Committees and your continued hard work. Next, we're going to move on to the Ad Hoc Audit Committee
report, and Second Vice Chair Catlin is going to share some information with us.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair. The Ad Hoc Audit Committee has met twice now. Most recently
we met yesterday and realized that we have quite a bit of work to do. And all of you as Board members
are encouraged to participate in our meetings, which are held every other Monday morning at 8 o'clock.
And we are using as a guideline the Internal Audit Committee Charter-- or Internal Audit Charter that we
developed last July. And stay tuned for that as we embark upon hopefully what will be approved tonight a
solicitation of outside services to help us move forward. Then we will be taking a look at that charter
again.
I would just hesitate to say that pending this Board's action tonight, then we will have more to report in the
next couple of weeks on our progress. That's all I have today, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you Second Vice Chair Catlin. Appreciate that update. Next on the agenda, we've
got committee reports. However, we're going to be approving their minutes a little bit further, and what
comes out of Finance and Operations and all that are the action items we'll be looking at in our consent
agenda.
So we'll move on to approval of Board meeting minutes and committee reports. Unless there's an
objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, I will ask for a motion to approve the minutes
for the following meeting, the January 4 Special Board Meeting. Do we have a motion for that?
Tisdale, so moved.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second, Director Lewis.
BUZEK: I've got Tisdale and Lewis as the movant and the second. Any discussion on approving those
minutes?
[COMPUTER CHIMES]
Any objection, any no votes to approving? OK. We'll consider that 15 yes votes and 0 no votes. The other
committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Any corrections from any Director?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Rosenthal, yeah.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So the Operations Committee, is this a good time to bring that one up? The fact that
it omitted the name of Kate Williams as the new Vice Chair in the minutes.

VINCE BUZEK: Very good. So we'll make sure that the Operations Committee minutes are revised to
include that. Any other corrections from any Directors? Hearing none, those committee reports will stand
as submitted and will become a part of the permanent record. And for the record, they are the Executive
Committee meeting of January 6, 2022; Finance and Planning Committee meeting of January 11, 2022;
Operations and Safety Committee meeting of January 12, 2022; and the Executive Committee meeting of
January 20, 2022. Very good.
Next, we move on to the Chair's report. And I've alluded to this earlier in some settings. And I'm going to
be appointing an ad hoc committee to explore the impacts of TABOR on RTD, the future impacts, and
what, if any, strategies we may want to consider moving forward with regard to alleviating some of those
impacts. I am appointing Directors Broom and Directors Cook to this ad hoc committee, and they will be
moving forward with their work and reporting back to us.
Other than that, the Chair has no further reports. I'll move on to the General Manager's report. Ms.
Johnson, would you please give us your report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And good evening to you, Board members
and to all who are virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of the
Regional Transportation District.
This evening, I will share with you the following information centered around our strategic priorities.
Speaking to community value, I will discuss current efforts underway to address unwelcome activity
occurring at Denver Union Station and the surrounding area. Regarding customer excellence, I will share
information regarding digital signage at light rail stations. And related to the employee ownership strategic
priority, I will touch on COVID-19 impacts, the residual impacts to that, service delivery and employee
vaccination efforts, and inclusive language training.
So regarding community value concerning current efforts underway to address unwelcome occurring
activity at Denver Union Station and the surrounding area, two weeks ago on Thursday, January 13, I,
along with Director Rivera-Malpiede, Chief Operations Officer Michael Ford, Transit Police Chief Grado
and Deputy Chief Martingano, Lance Longenbohn and Ron Short from the Amalgamated Transit Union
Local 1001, and Facilitator Wanda Dunham, a consultant to RTD and former Chief of MARTA in Atlanta,
engaged in a meeting with Mayor Michael Hancock, senior members from the mayor's staff, as well as
from the Denver Police Department to discuss ongoing efforts to address the unwelcome activity
occurring at Denver Union Station and the surrounding areas and particularly in the underground bus
concourse.
The purpose of the meeting was to understand the full universe of safety and security challenges for
people who utilize services, work at, visit, and live near Denver Union Station, and importantly to identify
solutions to each of those challenges. The participants engaged in open dialogue to hear from law
enforcement and transit security personnel dealing with these challenges firsthand as well as to receive
an overview of operations currently underway to address such challenges.

During the meeting, Chief Dunham, who acted as our facilitator, conducted an informal poll ranging from
a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being the lowest and 10 being the highest, to gauge the participants' rating of
security at Denver Union Station. The participants' initial response is average a score of 4.6 out of 10. So
several individuals indicated later in the meeting that they would have reduced their scores after having
seen information presented by RTD and by the Denver Police Department demonstrating the full breadth
of the ongoing challenges.
This was the first of several anticipated cross-jurisdictional meetings. In a meeting scheduled later this
week, a steering committee comprised of many of the same individuals will establish topic-specific
subcommittees to deeply engage on issues such as policing and enforcement, Crime Prevention Through
Environmental Design, also referred to a CPTED, as well as subcommittees on laws and legislation,
potential opportunities for state or federal level prosecution of the most egregious offenders, quality of life
issues, community and stakeholder engagement, and communication.
As I have said many times, RTD is not alone in dealing with these challenges, such as the detrimental
behavior plaguing the US, as these are societal problems with no easy solutions. RTD and the City and
County of Denver are committed partners in reclaiming Denver Union Station as a safe and vibrant
multimodal transit hub and a gateway to Denver and the Central Business District.
In keeping with this commitment, last month, I participated in a tour of the Harm Reduction Action Center,
of which I invited RTD Police Chief Grado to accompany me. The Harm Reduction Action Center is
Colorado's largest public health agency that works specifically with individuals who inject drugs. The
Center's work focuses on the mitigation of health risk for these vulnerable individuals who experience
heightened rates of HIV, hepatitis C, overdose, soft skin tissue infections, and now COVID-19.
Following the tour and enlightening conversation with Lisa Raville, the Executive Director of the Center,
Chief Grado and I came away with a deeper understanding of the motivations behind some of the nondestination individuals who frequent the Denver Union Station bus concourse and who utilize the
restrooms in the bus concourse prior to its closure as a relatively sheltered location and a source of clean
water for illegal drug use.
This knowledge will help inform decision making regarding the restrooms and the Denver Union Station
bus concourse as the procurement to identify and select a contractor to install permanent doors takes
place. And I want to say I know I've talked about this. But recognizing the challenges, it's hard identifying
a contractor in the midst of these times when we've had such an adverse impact with high level of
frontline employees ready and available to help with projects and things of the like. So with that, the
decisions made in this instance may further inform design decisions for other locations within RTD's
service area.
Regarding customer excellence, the agency's Information Technology staff and the Maintenance of Way
crews responsible for Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition, what we refer to as SCADA specifically
in the rail world, have embarked upon a project to upgrade digital signs that display scheduling
information on light rail station platforms throughout the system. I'm specifically bringing this project to

your attention this evening as it was a topic of interest broached during the public comment portion of the
Operations and Safety Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 11.
An upgrade to the previous system has been in planning for some time. Though the project has
experienced delays due to supply chain issues and people power problems, the equipment necessary to
complete the project has now been delivered. The software used to operate these signs is currently being
tested, and system integration is on track for the last week of February, barring unforeseen technical
issues. The upgraded signs will provide real time information via data gathered through track circuitry.
Until the project is completed, the SCADA team will continue daily monitoring of the signs to resolve any
encountered errors.
So moving to employee ownership, I will now discuss COVID-19 impacts and employee vaccination
efforts. The Omicron variant now accounts for 100% of COVID-19 cases in Colorado. RTD experienced a
25% month-over-month increase in positive cases from December of 2021 to January of this year,
contributing to significant ongoing workforce challenges not only with respect to service delivery but also
throughout operations and administration facilities.
RTD is certainly not alone in the Denver metro area in experiencing substantial workforce challenges.
Among the counties served by RTD, positivity rates remain high at approximately 25% with a
breakthrough positivity rate of approximately 33%. This means a full one third of those testing positive
have received at least the initial two doses of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines or one dose of the Johnson
& Johnson vaccine. And this figure also includes individuals who have received a vaccine booster.
Considering the statistics I've cited and in light of the particularly high incidence of COVID-19 cases in the
counties served by RTD, the capacity of all operating and administrative facilities remains at 25%, noting,
as you indicated, Mr. Chair, in your safety briefing that the federal mask mandate remains in place
through at least March 18 of this year.
On a more positive note, data from the Centers for Disease Control and from the state of Colorado
indicate that vaccine boosters offer significant protection against serious illness and hospitalization. The
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment reports that, according to age-adjusted data,
individuals in Colorado who are vaccinated against COVID-19 are 1.9 times less likely to be infected, 8
and 1/2 times less likely to be hospitalized due to COVID-19 infection, and 15 times less likely to die from
COVID-19.
As such, current employees are highly encouraged to seek an initial vaccination or a vaccine booster as
soon as possible. Denver International Airport will once again offer COVID-19 vaccine booster shots for
all RTD employees by appointment only. Details, including directions and clinic dates throughout January
and February, have been made available to employees and are available on our hub, which is our
intranet, and through our agency Human Resources representatives. As I have mentioned in previous
reports I have provided, employees do receive a COVID-19 vaccination-- a vaccination, they are provided
with paid time off for two hours.

Rounding out, I want to speak to an ongoing training in which we embarked upon as it covers the priority
of employee ownership. And what this training consisted of was incorporating inclusive language into the
basic curriculum for all agency employees.
Katherine Grove, who serves as our Director of the Civil Rights Division, conducted an inclusive language
training session on Thursday, December 2 for myself, along with the Executive Manager of the Board
Office and members of the leadership team. The group had a thoughtful and vulnerable discussion
regarding leadership's role in prompting a diverse, inclusive, and equitable workplace that promotes a
sense of belonging for all employees at the agency.
Covered topics included key terminology and compliance considerations for shared understanding, as
well as ways to use more inclusive language, how language can unintentionally perpetuate our biases,
cause microaggressions, and decrease others' sense of belonging, and the significance of understanding
our own biases and how awareness of them creates space to address them when they are triggered or
come up in the course of work we do at RTD. The training is in line with the values adopted by virtue of
the strategic plan, and similar trainings will be in time offered for staff as part of required training for new
and existing employees.
And lastly but certainly not least, I would be remiss not to recognize the service of Pauletta Tonilas to this
agency for a cumulative period of 15 years, which was amassed in two stints. Pauletta's last day with the
agency will be Friday, February 4. And as you are aware, she has served as Assistant General Manager
of Communications for the last three years. And in her original stint here at the organization, she served
as the Senior Manager of Public Relations.
She has been a contributor towards several of the agency's key projects and initiatives over the past two
decades, including the historic T-REX light rail and highway mega-project; the passage and
implementation of the FasTracks program, the nation's most ambitious public transit expansion program
of its time; the redevelopment of Denver Union Station; the implementation of the Eagle P3 project, the
first major transit public-private partnership in the country; the 50th anniversary of RTD; as well as the
Reimagine RTD effort.
Suffice to say, she has been there, done that, and has the T-shirt to prove it. I want to extend my hearty
thanks to Pauletta for her dedication and contributions to the agency. Moreover, I congratulate Pauletta
for all she has accomplished and wish her well in all her future endeavors. And with that, Chair Buzek, my
report is concluded. Thank you very kindly.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I know I and the rest of the Board also wish Ms. Tonilas the
best. And thank you for all your work, all your hard work. You've made quite an impact here. I really do
appreciate it. Director Lewis, I see your hand raised.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I had my hand raised regarding the TABOR Committee assignments. And so going
back to that if that is allowed. And then I'm happy to respond to our General Manager's report.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I just had an inquiry-- appreciate the conversation, very excited about it personally-as to how those agendas would be notified and if those would be available for public consumption. I know
there are a lot of folks who are both interested in TABOR as well as interested in transit or transportation
that would be interested in those conversations and might be contributors. And so I'm curious as to how
we might be engaging the public in those discussions as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, and I'm sure the committee's going to be working on that first and foremost, and
they will be reporting directly back to the Board. But we'll make sure that they work on that one as one of
their first things.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you have the first-- has the committee decided on the first meeting?
VINCE BUZEK: Not to my knowledge.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I have a question for the General Manager
relative to Jamie's report for the Accessibility Committee, specifically because it raises a topic that I think
is of great concern to many people, i.e. access to University Hospital. There was reference made to the
83L line.
And I've got the latest Trailblazer here, and I don't see that the 83L actually goes near the Anschutz
campus where University Hospital is located. And I just wanted to make sure that perhaps Assistant
General Manager Wortham could speak with the committee and get clarification on that. So that we would
be able to respond to that, because obviously a stop near University Hospital would seem to be
something beyond question. So I just wanted to raise that in this context. Thank you very much, Mr.
Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Ms. Johnson
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair and Director Tisdale. We have been working
with Mr. Lewis. Specifically, I've been involved in my monthly meetings with him, and Jessie Carter has
been engaged. This is an issue that expands outside of us, and we're working in tandem because there
are some concerns about how we would deviate a route to service that. So I want you to know that those
conversations are already ensuing as we go forward. So I just wanted you to be aware of that.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Any other questions or comments? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I just have one question-- if the Board can be updated regarding the TABOR
conversations that are to come, just so we know what's going on. I'd like to be engaged in those
discussions. And then would like to take the opportunity to thank the General Manager and her staff for
connecting with Lisa at the Harm Reduction Center. I just think it's really important. And so I appreciate
that.

One of the things that comes up when you mentioned the booster vaccinations at the airport-- I was
curious as to if we would be engaging in booster vaccinations again at rail stops or bus lines as we have
in the past. Maybe don't have to answer that in real time, but maybe a consideration.
And then wanted to also thank you and your staff for the work you all are doing around employee
ownership and bias and really threading those tenets of equity, inclusion, justice, and belonging into the
fabric of the agency and not just a thing that you kind of do over there, and it's only for some people to
engage in. So thank you for that work. Really appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you for those comments. Anybody else have any questions or comments
for our General Manager? Seeing none, we'll move on to the unanimous consent agenda. There are six
items on the consent agenda listed under Roman numeral XIV as actions A through F.
They are the 2022 committee appointments, rail repair budget transfer, exercise contract 19FK002
options to purchase 117 40-foot and 25 30-foot transit buses, 2022 Boulder HOP agreement, 2022
DRCOG vanpooling agreement, internal audit consulting and advisory services contract. If anyone has a
change to or questions on one of these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this time, and we
will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration under
recommended actions. Director Williams, I see your hand raised.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Buzek. I'd like to pull item E, the 2022 DRCOG vanpooling
agreement, just because I have some comments I'd like to make. I'm not opposed to it at all. I'd just like to
elucidate a little bit.
VINCE BUZEK: And thank you very much. So we will pull item E from the consent agenda and move it
under to a recommended action agenda. Is there anyone else that needs anything else pulled from the
consent agenda? Seeing none, I would request a motion to approve consent agenda item A, B, C, D, and
F at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Who was the second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.

VINCE BUZEK: Second, Tisdale. Is there any discussion with regard to the consent agenda items?
Seeing none, are there any no votes on these consent agenda items? Seeing none, items A B, C, D, and
F pass 15 aye votes and 0 no votes.
So at this point in time, we'll move to the recommended action agenda. And we have one item on the
agenda, and that is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to enter into an
agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments, DRCOG, to provide financial support in an
amount not to exceed $663,000 for calendar year 2022 for the Way to Go vanpool program operations in
the Denver metro area. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Tisdale. Second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Williams, second. And is there any discussion? Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Let me put my hand down now before I forget. I would just like to
point out that this program, which is known colloquially as DRCOG's Way to Go vanpool program, is in
fact designed to supplement RTD's fixed routes and FlexRide. It's essentially an underwritten lease of an
enterprise vehicle.
RTD has not been offering this program to our constituents, who have had their services reduced. In fact,
on the RTD website, it's listed as non-RTD services. And in fact, RTD taxpayer dollars are supporting this
excellent program, and it is in fact a partnership with DRCOG, not simply a DRCOG program.
Based on that, I did speak at length with DRCOG's staff who manage this program, found a lot of
interesting items that I'm happy to supply to the rest of the Board, and I definitely think that we should
continue to support it. I'd just like to see it get some more recognition as part of RTD's family of services
to help us move people around in the greater Denver area. Thank you, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams, thank you for those comments. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Hear, hear. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. I would also echo Director Tisdale's comments. Director Catlin-- I'm sorry,
Second Vice Chair Caitlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would echo those sentiments, particularly in light of the fact that
some of the routes in the proposed plan that are being proposed for elimination, it suggested that the
vanpooling program is going to be a substitute for those fixed route services. So I think Director Williams
is right. We do need to emphasize that that's a family of RTD services. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wholeheartedly agree with everything everyone has
said. I'd like to take my hat off and put on my TMA Director hat and say that the vanpool program has
proven to be such an empowerment for community to come together and support each other as they go
to and from work.
And we have several vanpools that are for shift workers who are predominantly communities of diversity
that really utilize the vanpool program. So next to transit and trains, vanpools carry the most people, and I
keep seeing that as a continuum in terms of climate change and getting more SOV off the roads, and this
is a good way to supplement that. So I'm in great support of this. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede. And yes, I agree it's a great program. And to the
extent that we're involved and financially committed, maybe we need to toot our own horn a little bit on
that too and make sure more people know about it. Any other comments or discussion matters on this
matter? Seeing none, are there any no votes on the motion?
And seeing none, this matter passes 15 to 0. Director Williams, thank you very much for bringing this to
the Board's attention. We're going to move on to other matters at this time. I'm going to start with Director
Guissinger. Oh, I'm sorry. Director Cook, do you have something?
SHELLEY COOK: And the reason I'm bringing it up tonight is because we won't meet again before the
deadline for the comment period on the draft SOP comes up. And thank you, General Manager, for your
memo. I attended the city council meeting in Arvada last night, and there was a lot of really strong
opinions. One big piece, though, of the feedback that I got there was that we're moving too fast.
And in the particular, the particular concern I wanted to highlight here is that they're worried that the riders
and non-riders-- but actually riders aren't having-- there's not enough outreach to riders to know about
service that may be truncated or that may be eliminated.
And the problem with waiting until the service change to have that kind of outreach-- the brochure is on
board, the physical telling people of the changes that may impact them-- is that by that time, we will have
adopted the SOP. And it's really a much higher bar than to say, no, we're not going to truncate that line
after all. At that point, I think what we'll be saying is it's part of our system plan. We had outreach a few
months ago. This is what we're going to do.
So I think given that some people may not even know-- that would be my sense. Somebody riding a
particular route that's going to be truncated right now, unless they are attuned to us on social media, they
probably don't know that we're talking about doing this. And by the time they're going to be made aware
through the regular service change process, it will be too late to weigh in in the ways that are most
meaningful. So that piece in-- I just want to put a particular point on that-- was a concern that the Arvada
City Council had last night.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Cook. I appreciate that input. I know that this Thursday, the North
Area Transportation Alliance will be taking this matter up also for discussion. So there may be some more
things coming from that. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate those comments, Director Cook. And I wonder if an outreach plan-- if a
more robust outreach plan might address your concerns as opposed to putting a pause on it, just
because we've paused it in the past. And I wonder if staff were to bring back a comprehensive
engagement plan, if that might help to settle some of those concerns that communities are feeling.
SHELLEY COOK: I don't without being able to ask them. The concern would be, are they able to do it in
two weeks, launch and get it going? So that would be the one-- the first thought that I'd have about it.
Thank you, though.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. February 9 is the deadline for public comment, and that, I think, is the critical
question. Let's see. We have Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: That's right. And I would just agree with both Director Lewis and Director Cook. But I
believe the February 9 date is coming up too quickly to have reached enough of the important customers
and stakeholders. The stakeholder dates were announced really during the holiday season, and I think it
took a lot of people by surprise and were not able to participate in those meetings.
I, in fact, listened in on Director Cook's Arvada Council meeting, and Director Cook did a wonderful job
representing the RTD Board and RTD. But there is a significant hill to climb with that jurisdiction. And I
think they're just an example of others out there as well. So I would agree that a lengthier period would be
important before this Board votes on the SOP. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I would agree with that too. I think Boulder and Boulder County
requested an extension and got their comments in. But I'm concerned that riders around the district are
not as aware. And their comments raised another concern I've had and raised in some of the listening
sessions about what exactly the effect of the SOP is and what the Amendment process is.
And I asked that in one session, and the answer was that if we add something, we have to delete
something, which I find troublesome. Because if it becomes a need in my area, do I have to point out
someone else's area that they delete? I asked it again in another meeting-- or somebody else asked did, I
think.
And the answer was that Service Planning will do their usual planning. But I think that that's an important
piece that needs to be addressed-- is exactly, what's the process? Does Service Planning do its usual
planning and say, oh, we're deviating from this? Is there an amendment process? I think that that's an
important piece as we move forward on the SOP.
Does that conclude your comments, First Vice Chair? OK. GM/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you for all the comments around public
participation. I do appreciate the feedback. And I would offer up to this Board, it would be helpful if you

could be more specific and provide us with some direction. And staff will try to mitigate the concerns
which you have outlined.
I recognize that some of you may not have seen the summary document relative to the outreach,
recognizing as well that this has been an ongoing process and the operative word is a plan. Are you
seeking to have intercepts done on Board vehicles for specific routes and things along those lines? That
would be quite helpful.
Because I would be remiss to state that it's my understanding this project commenced back in 2019 and
was supposed to be an 18-month process. And so it's my obligation to put forward to all of you as relates
to our contractual agreement that we do have with a third party consultancy, we have expended the
dollars associated with such, not to say that that would prevent us from doing intercepts if we did them
ourselves.
But I wanted to put that information out there for you because there has been a time extension on this
contract, and we do have procurement obligation. So I thought it was appropriate that I not sit by silent
and not present that to all of you. But recognizing that we are willing to engage, it would be helpful if the
Board provided some direct guidance relative to what the needs are you're trying to address with your
constituency as opposed to us making assumptions. So I thank you very much for taking my comments
into your consideration and look forward to any subsequent direction in which you'd like to provide.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Thank you all. I apologize I'm not on video this evening. I'm feeling a bit
under the weather. I'm curious, General Manager/CEO, if there's anyone on your staff-- or others on the
Board with other public engagement experience-- is there evidence that extending a time frame leads to a
meaningful increase in engagement? Which is, is the solution we're trying to prescribe actually going to fix
the problem?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would say that we don't have any scientific data. It would be anecdotal, having
engaged in multiple COAs in the course of my time here. But I would, if it would be helpful, , ask Mr. Van
Meter, who is leading the charge with the consultant team, to opine. And here is Mr. Van Meter. And so I
will yield this floor to him. Mr-[AUDIO OUT]

WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah, so I have no hard data either that I can quote on that. As General Manager
Johnson noted, we serve at the direction of the Board and feel that we have embarked on a very robust
engagement process, as I understand was outlined in the correspondence to the Board, and certainly feel

that the program and approach of outreach to our customers and our stakeholders has been lengthy and
robust.
And we've received a couple hundred specific comments just from stakeholders to date, as well as many
through the public and customer outreach channels that we've talked about. And with more than two
weeks remaining, we're having a tough time processing and getting to the heart of all of those comments
already. So I would say our stakeholders and our customers have been very engaged to date, and I'm
encouraged by that.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Dishell, does that conclude your comments and questions?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you all for the work you're doing. Just wanted to sort of get that gut check
on, does it-- if we do extend, does it even-- is that going to cure the problem we're trying to cure versus
trying to adjust our stakeholder list or something like that? So thank you. It's certainly helpful.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll actually speak after Director Cook because I am curious as to the question that
we're trying to answer here or the problem we're trying to solve.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So there have been suggestions at some of the listening sessions. For
example, including a QR code on the vehicles, especially for those routes where they'll be truncated or
service is going to be removed, or maybe including a survey, a paper survey even on board. Just some
physical sign to people that there may be changes coming to their route so that they would have a chance
to weigh in.
I think that there probably are lots of ideas that could be implemented, some inexpensively more than
others. But what I'd like to do is just make a motion. I thought that Director Lewis had a pretty good
suggestion. And that would be since General Manager/CEO Johnson has asked for direction, well, it
would be that the staff develop a more robust rider outreach plan targeting in particular those routes that
would be truncated or eliminated or would have pretty significant service reductions and implement that
as needed to inform people before we act on the SOP.
In other words, allow input in that up past the February 9 deadline so that people have a chance to know
what's going to impact them at a time when they can still weigh in and hopefully have some influence on
that decision. So develop that more robust plan with input from the Board based upon feedback that
they've had in the listening session so far. Bring it to us, and target a new date for adoption of that SOP.
So that's my motion. We'll see how it goes.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Snyder, is the question on process? Is a motion at this point in time in order?

MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. No, I was just going to step in. This wasn't noticed as a
recommended action for formal action. But certainly the Board can give informal guidance to staff, but we
don't require a formal motion now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you all. I was raising my hand for the same purpose to say that you could make
a motion. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: [INAUDIBLE]
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis, go ahead. I'm sorry. Were you done, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No. You can get a sense of the Board, is what it sounds like. Did I read that right,
General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Director Cook. It's appropriate for the Board to discuss and provide some
direction to the General Manager and staff.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. A few things come up for me. The first would be a question of
clarity for Director Cook, first and foremost. When you say a comprehensive plan-- and I'm always about
engagement. That's been pretty consistent of me on this Board for the past three years. Can you tell me
what you're thinking in terms of what that extension looks like in time?
SHELLEY COOK: I think that would-- sorry, Mr. Chair. I think that would-VINCE BUZEK: Go ahead. You can answer.
SHELLEY COOK: --depend on the kinds of measures that were incorporated. I know the staff are-they've kind of focused on the time frame that they've looked at for adoption. Maybe it could be that it's a
matter of a couple of weeks is all. And so I'm not seeking to trip the whole process up.
I honestly have to say I don't know why the March adoption-- now that we're not starting implementation
in May, I don't know why the March adoption is that important. But that could be a question we raise
otherwise. But I would say do a good job of outreach right now, especially for people who are going to be
impacted most directly by the cuts. And then adjust the deadline as needed. And that would give us a
chance to see some of what the mobility plan for the future will bring forward as well.
And to me, it would be important to have some of that or most of it in order to consider the whole system
that we're proposing for the region. So anyway, I think it depends. I don't think it has to delay things very
long. But, again, I'm not that convinced that the original March time frame is that key, especially since we
now are moving the implementation start date off to the fall. Anyway, hope that helps.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, it does help. I really appreciate that. I guess the few things that came up for me
is, is there a need to identify underrepresented communities at the event? Like, is that happening? Are

there language barriers that we might need to address? Is it about accessibility? Like, are the location of
the meetings and the events presented in ways that people find it difficult to engage? And so that would
be helpful.
I also have a question for the General Manager, understanding your-- that clarity Director Cook is. With
the contract that we currently have, if we were to push it off by-- I think you said three weeks, Director
Cook. And correct me if I'm wrong. I'm sorry. I'm trying to keep up in real time. What does that mean for
our contract, and what does that mean for the full processing program?
VINCE BUZEK: So who is your question directed to, Directer Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: General Manager.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much. And recognizing that this wasn't agendized, I am talking
off the top of my head, which I don't like to do. So recognizing that I put this forward because we have
already had contracts extensions, what I will do to ensure we're adhering to good procurement practices
and not creating scope creep-- because this is important, so I don't want anybody to think that I'm dancing
around that issue-- I do have an obligation to ensure that we are doing this to create fair and equal
opportunity as relates to doing business with RTD.
With that being said, I will commit to going back, looking at what we can do because there have been
contract extensions I've signed relative to this specific one. So it would be helpful if we had parameters
around the change and modification of a scope. I think that we could address the concerns you've
outlined.
But recognizing that I need to get with my procurement team and legal, I want to ensure that there is a
clear cut understanding about the path we're taking because I do not want to have to sign a contract
again and put ourselves in a precarious position, making this precedent setting. So I will commit to
looking into that and doubling back because I believe that we as staff are committed to looking at a period
of time in which we can extend.
But there's other external factors I must take into consideration. So I just wanted to put that forward,
Director Cook, when you were saying you don't understand the time frame, because I do know from that
contract extension that I signed of several months back that the contract was going to sunset, I want to
say, at the end of March and so March 31, I believe.
And so there's-- OK, Mr. Van meter's nodding his head, because I do sign every-- I read everything I sign.
So I need to figure out how we can do that in reference to what the consultant has on tap because we did
engage them for a specific amount of time and for a specific scope. So we will engage in follow-up. You
have my commitment on that. So thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Lewis, does that conclude your comments?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that was really helpful. Without that information, I wouldn't feel comfortable
changing the date without that information because we've been having these discussions for quite some
time. And I kind of feel like we're kicking the can in some regards if I'm being completely candid. And so
that information would be helpful for me if there are issues that are happening within our engagement that
we can mitigate. But if we just kind of want to buy ourselves some more time to make hard decisions,
then I'm a bit reluctant to do so.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for your comments. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think my ask would be that to the extent we do-- actually,
regardless of whether we do a more robust engagement plan or we continue with our currently robust
engagement plan, I think it'd be helpful to see a breakdown of-- and it could be aggregate, but a
breakdown of staff time in terms of equity and how we view those equity populations under Title VI. I just
want to make sure that if we're doing-- just look.
And if we haven't done already, just look and see, are we spending a disproportionate amount of time on
wealthier communities than less wealthy communities just unintentionally based on different requests that
might come in otherwise is something I want to make sure we keep a pulse on as we go through our
community engagement. I know General Manager Johnson and her team are all about that and on top of
that. But it would be great just to see that on our end as-[AUDIO OUT]
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say that Director Cook suggested a few fairly
simple additional outreach tactics that might yield some results and really targeting those routes that are
targeted for either truncation or elimination. I think that might be worthwhile if it's just a fairly simple, cost
effective solution in the next couple of weeks. I just wanted to say I appreciated your specific suggestions
and not just the overarching moniker of a more robust engagement plan. I think you suggested some very
simple things that we might want to look into.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with what Second Vice Chair Catlin is talking
about. As I read the memo that we all received this afternoon, when you look at the robust outreach that
this team has done, it's quite impressive, including over 26 separate meetings including communities of
diversity, cities, municipalities, key stakeholders, a bunch of stuff. I really like the idea, though, of if there
is a population that a Director is really concerned about, like what Director Cook is talking about, I really
support going and identifying those-[AUDIO OUT]

VINCE BUZEK: Director Rivera-Malpiede, I think we lost you. Does anybody else hear her?
SHELLEY COOK: No.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Well, let's come back to Director Rivera-Malpiede, if you can get your technology
issues squared away. I want to make a couple of comments at this point in time. So we had this incredible
engagement with our contractor for two years. And the goal was to develop the System Optimization
Plan. So we worked for two years. We come up with a plan. We have 30 days for people to comment on
it.
I just think that balance-- and I'm not saying we should comment for two years. But 30 days seems a bit
brief. I participated in all the listening sessions. And I have to say there were some that were done in 20
minutes because nobody was there. Nobody made any comments. And I know on the north end in
particular, when I looked at the invite list, the former mayors of Westminster and Broomfield were invited
but not the current mayors.
So I think we need to go back and look at who were even invited to these listening sessions, and how can
we make such a glaring error like that? So I'd be in favor of doing something to have our General
Manager talk with the contractor, see if we can extend-- or what it would take if it's even possible so that
we can get some more robust engagement. Thanks. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair I'm wondering-- we still have time-- if each of the Board members
could submit to the staff immediately a list of those that they think should be asked to attend and that
there could be-- I believe there's still some time left, like another eight days or something, 10 days, I don't
know, two weeks. So if each of the Directors could submit that contact information right away, then I think
the staff could probably ask whoever was on the lists, and then perhaps there would be some more
feedback. Just a suggestion.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Williams. Any more comments on this? If you do, you've got more ideas
or input, please communicate directly with our GM/CEO so she can put all that together. So next, we got
another matter. Director Guissinger, update us a little bit on Government Relations. Director Guissinger,
I'll turn this over to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much. I'm going to start it off and turn it over in just a minute.
But we had our weekly during the session phone call with Brandeberry McKenna this morning, and
General Manager/CEO Johnson was on and Michael Davies from Government Relations. And they have
filed the bill that was sent out to us where Parker is requesting authority to go to the ballot and ask their
citizens if they want to secede or get out of RTD.
It's a long-term project. And I think rather than go on too much about it, I know that Director Bouquet
wanted to speak to it briefly and then I think-- I'm not sure if Ms Johnson wants to speak to it. But I know

that Michael Davies is prepared to talk. So Director Bouquet, if you had some things you wanted to add
there.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair Guissinger. So we did have a conversation,
myself, Director Tisdale, and then Mr. Davies, with Mayor Toborg of Parker last week, which I actually
thought-- I don't want to speak for the others in attendance but I thought was actually pretty productive
going forward and getting a little bit understanding of what the town is kind of looking for.
Speaking myself as a Director-- I'm not speaking on behalf of the Board or the RTD agency-- I am against
this bill. I was against the bill previous, almost identical to this current bill, that was proposed last time this
year, really. And then, of course, myself and Director Tisdale testified against it, I believe, last April-- or
this current April-- or yeah, last April.
I just see that this bill itself is kind of opening the way to a lot of unknowns and a lot of questions
themselves. I can see where this would be-[VACUUM HUMMING]
My apologies, because I'm in my classroom right now and the cleaning crew just came in. So I will end
with I'm against the bill, and I would like to come back to it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: And-- I'm sorry. Am I OK to go ahead? I think the thought is that-- well, the situation
is that we need to take a position if we wish to, and it needs to come from the Board. So the plan, I think,
would be tentatively to come back to the Executive Committee and then to the Board next month to
discuss this further. Ms. Johnson, did you have something to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, First Chair Guissinger. And I want to thank Mr. MacKay as
well as Director Tisdale and most specifically Mr. Davies. As you know we have been working on this and
had discussions, as you indicated, with our state advocacy team as we look to manage what's
forthcoming.
And I wanted to ensure that we had an opportunity to put in this form, recognizing that all of you adopted
our legislative program in October of last year, to the point that First Chair Guissinger raised, that we will
bring this in a formalized fashion so the Board collectively as a body can take a position as relates to this
legislation. There's a lot of work that we're doing. Mr. Davies-- we have been engaging with staff at the
town of Parker and have developed a working relationship with them, recognizing at first there were
questions relative to the level of service they were receiving, and their service has been restored.
At this time, if I may, I do see Director Tisdale's hand up and Director Williams. So I will yield the floor to
the Chair but would like Mr. Davies to give more specific information relative to our advocacy efforts and

how we've been coordinating because I think he's done a very good job and in a judicious fashion as well
to support the efforts of Director MacKay as he and I had spoken last week.
So I just wanted to ensure that you are aware that there's been a lot of advocacy work, and we are
working towards a strategy because I know I've had questions independently from this body. So I thought
it was very paramount and important to bring this full circle in this forum this evening. So thank you. And
so, Mr. Chair, at this time, I'll yield, like I said, to you to discern who's next in speaking.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. And Directors Tisdale, Williams, can we hear from Mr. Davies
first, or would you like to make your comments now? OK, let's do that. Mr. Davies, would you please have
the floor?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer. Following on
General Manager Johnson's comments and Director Bouquet's comments, we did have a great meeting
with the mayor of Parker, and there was a productive conversation.
With regards to the bill, I just want to give a kind of a quick outline and, of course, more information
coming back next month and staff recommendation on that. But the bill number, just for everybody,
SB22046. Title-- Parker Election Inclusion or Exclusion from RTD.
And really, the purpose of the bill from the drafter's perspective is that state statute does allow and
prescribe how entities become part of RTD. But there is no way for entities to understand how to get out
of RTD. And so really the only way is to have a bill like this and be able to place a question on the ballot,
and it requires this legislation at the state level. So that's really the purpose from the drafter's perspective
is to just allow that process to happen.
Specifics of the bill are that the 5% of the voters' collected signatures or action by the city council can
place that question on the ballot. And overall, there are some problematic or concerning sections of the
bill, and that has specifically to do with section 4B. It's subsection B of section 4 that's the issue.
And it basically says that as part of the process, if the town of Parker decides to exclude themselves from
RTD, then they will only continue to pay their financial obligations under the bonds taken out on voterapproved sales taxes only if RTD provides 50% of the-- $0.50 on the dollar of service to the tax dollars
paid to RTD. Just from an implementation and unanswered questions perspective, that section does raise
some concerns and will be part of staff's recommendation coming back next month. But with that, I'm
happy to take any other questions. And, yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Great Thanks for that information. Director Tisdale, I'm going to go to you next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just briefly-- and Mr. Davies already addressed
part of this-- there are actually two ballot questions that would be proposed. Number one is whether the
portions of the town of Parker that are not within the RTD at this time would vote to include themselves
into the RTD. The second ballot question is whether all of the sections of Parker that are in the RTD

would seek to exclude. So it really isn't-- just for the sake of completeness and clarity, I wanted to add
that.
Secondly, relative to the 50% provision, I don't read it quite the same as Mr. Davies does. In fact, I was
under the impression in my reading of it, which, of course, could be in error, that there were no
consequences listed. It was just stated that we would have to provide 50% of service. So there wasn't a
determination that if you didn't, they wouldn't continue to pay. It just said, and you will have to continue to
pay. No consequence was listed as I read it.
In addition to that, providing 50% of service is something that we actually discussed in s meeting with the
mayor and the city manager's representative. And it actually concluded that it would be fair for RTD to
include things such as general administrative overhead and so forth as expenses to be included in that.
So I think ultimately the 50% mark would not prove to be a challenge.
All that said, I join with Director Bouquet in the communication that we gave with the mayor that we are
opposed to the bill but that we very clearly hear their concerns and intend to respond to them. Thank you,
Mr. Mayor-- Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Director Williams, you're next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Nobody has to thank me. I'm just wondering if included in all of these discussions has
been the population that I most often speak for, which are persons with disabilities and older adults. A
long time ago, I used to work down in that part of town with some small transit services that do serve this,
and I can tell you that there's very limited service.
I understand that Access-a-Ride is only provided within a certain scope of existing routes. But should the
area leave RTD, there will be less of that service than there is today. And in particular, in that part of
town, there are many people who are growing older and a number of people who are disabled who do
use RTD services. So I'm just asking that everybody please be aware of those populations in these
negotiations. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that input, Director Williams. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And one of the things that-- having been in the legislature, I
know that legislators oftentimes run bills to bring up topics, bring up issues, cause discussion. And I do
understand that and certainly appreciate the efforts of some of the Board members and General Manager
Johnson to work with Parker to alleviate their concerns.
And certainly, the points of Director Williams is very well taken about the services that we provide that
may be invisible to some potentially. As I look at the bill-- and I haven't really read through it, but as I look
at the number of sponsors and read the tea leaves into it, I don't think it's something that's sort of hair on
fire at this point. But I think certainly it's something to monitor.

And I mean by that is that there does not seem to be support from, for example, the Democratic majority,
anybody who's a Democratic Senator supporting it. So that's good news at this point. But as I said, it's
something that we would need to continue to monitor, and I'm glad that we have our lobbyists who are
working on this. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. My apologies for getting cut off a little bit earlier. But it
is a full day at the office here. So I did just want to speak real quick, and I might actually start off with a
question for Mr. Davies because I might have missed that. But from my understanding, would this
basically be staff recommendation coming back to the Board and then us as a Board deciding on the staff
recommendation to either support said bill or be against said bill? Could I just have some clarification
regarding that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, certainly. Thank you. The way that we have laid out that process in the Boardapproved legislative agenda is to bring a staff recommendation for a bill and, yes, as you laid out, I think
the Board can go ahead and change that recommendation, and we as staff listen to the policy decision
and policy-- yeah, policy decisions of the Board. So I think that that's the process that staff would come
back with the recommendation, and it would be open for discussion, agreement, or amendment from the
Board.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect. Yeah, because there might be a little bit of differing opinions for one
representing the district down here compared to potentially staff. And this is just an assumption,
potentially staff saying we respect the autonomy of Parker, but we have issues with said section.
Compared to myself, looking at the bill, again, I am against it, as Director Williams has brought up.
This opens up a Pandora's box, in my opinion, where-- I will be totally transparent with my fellow Directors
and all of the public. I haven't heard from one constituent wanting to leave the town of Parker. I have
heard from multiple constituents who were very concerned who are transit dependent who emailed me,
who called me when this bill originally-- when, excuse me, the previous bill, looking very similar, popped
up last time last year.
They were very concerned because people interpreted that routes, Access-a-Ride, FlexRide, the return
now of the Route P and the 483 were going to be taken away. And, again, that's my biggest concern. I'm
happy once staff recommendations come on out. I just want to just put that on the record. Douglas
County, I believe, is the second fastest growing county in the state of Colorado. We have a lot of folks,
and we got a lot of folks who are getting older.
It, in my opinion, makes no sense to be cutting off services. This, in my opinion, again, is something
where we as an agency have been fighting for the service we can for the town of Parker. And in my
opinion, the best way is to continue to have Parker into the district and how it stands. It has caused a lot
more anxiety from my constituents with this bill being introduced rather than the alternative of this bill
going forward.

So I did want to let my fellow Board members know that. And yeah, I'll be looking at-- we'll all be looking
at what the staff recommendations are. I think it would be beneficial, Vice Chair Guissinger or Chair
Buzek, for us potentially to have a conversation or a member of the Executive Committee to have a
conversation with either Mr. Davies and/or CEO Johnson. And that concludes my comments. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Bouquet. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to wind it up, thank you for those comments, Director Bouquet and others. I
think that we've laid out the issues well. If we take a stand, our Public Affairs, Brandeberry McKenna
needs to register that. So I agree with Director Rosenthal. It's certainly not a hair on fire issue. But I think
it's a good conversation for us to have. And I would be happy to attend a meeting, Director Bouquet and
with Ms. Johnson and Mr. Davies. Thanks very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Any other matters to come before the Board? Seeing none,
we're going to get ready to move into executive session. In a moment, I'm going to ask for a motion to do
this. I want to just let everybody know that January 25 is the birthday of Robert Burns, the national poet of
Scotland. Robbie Burns Day is a big deal in this household as my wife was born in Scotland. So I've got a
haggis and a dram waiting for me. So we're going to get through this executive session quickly.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session pursuant to 42-6-402(4)(b), Colorado Revised
Statutes, and receive legal advice-- to receive legal advice and 24-6-402(4)(e), Colorado Revised
Statutes, for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations regarding the
successor collective bargaining agreement with Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001. I'm going to ask
for a motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams. Second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
VINCE BUZEK: That is Bouquet. And any votes in opposition to going to executive session? Seeing
none, that passes 15 to 0. And prior to adjourning, I'm going to note for the record that immediately upon
the conclusion of the executive session, the Board will reconvene to address the remaining items on the
Board meeting agenda.
Would all those entitled to participate in the executive session please move into the other meeting at this
time? And remember that came as a calendar invite and not as an email. So that's where you're going to
find that. And we'll see you all back here. So exit this meeting, go into that one.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER: Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000,
option 4, or fill out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When

riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-2992911 or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International-[AUDIO OUT]

BARBARA MCMANUS: I understand some of the Directors are still in this meeting and have not joined
the executive session. I would ask that those Directors please sign off of the Board meeting and join the
rest of the Directors in the executive session. It was a Teams meeting invite that was sent prior to the
Board meeting earlier today.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER: Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000,
option 4, or fill out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When
riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-2992911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.

Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD

service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.

The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get to and
from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD service area.
Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and purchase
tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.

The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000-[AUDIO OUT]

--option 4, or fill out a customer form online at RTD-denver.com. If you see something, say something.
When riding a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.

Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, 6,000, option
4, or fill out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding
a train or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or
text 303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD

service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado a-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.

The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.

Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.

The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let your
phone be your gateway to travel in and around the region.
Have you lost or forgotten an item on a bus or train? Call Lost and Found at 300-299-6000, option 4, or fill
out a customer form online at rtd-denver.com. If you see something, say something. When riding a train
or bus, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Call 303-299-2911, or text
303-434-9100.
The University of Colorado A-line and the SkyRide bus service offer convenient, affordable options to get
to and from Denver International Airport. Regional airport fare is $10.50 from anywhere in the RTD
service area. Check schedules online at rtd-denver.com, or use the RTD mobile app to plan your trip and
purchase tickets.
At RTD, your safety is our number one priority. Remember to keep a safe social distance from other
riders at bus stops and train stations, and always wear your mask while waiting for or riding with RTD. As
we clean and disinfect our vehicles daily, we ask you to be our partners in safety and mask up.
Can't find exact change? Running behind schedule? Download the RTD mobile ticketing app on your
mobile device to pay your fare with a debit or credit card and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. Let-[AUDIO OUT]

VINCE BUZEK: We'll give a couple minutes here. As long as we have eight people, I think we're good.
I'm going to call the Board meeting back to order at 8:22 PM. And Dr. Lewis, I thought I saw your hand.
Was that-- are you good? OK, cool. I will now entertain a motion to adjourn our Board meeting.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Rosenthal and somebody else.

KATE WILLIAMS: Everybody else.
VINCE BUZEK: I see Rosenthal as a movant and Williams as second. Any no votes to adjourn? I don't
see any. We're adjourned. Thanks, everybody, for all your participation. Great questions, comments,
yadda, yadda. Bye.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Good night.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm getting to that dram.

