Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, PhD, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
January 25, 2018 at 12:00 PM
I.

II.

Call to Order
Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 12:05 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tisdale, 1st Vice Chair Menten,
2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler (via phone)
Secretary Folska, Ph.D., Treasurer
Lubow (via phone, arrived late)

Others present:

Dave Genova, General Manager,
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager
of the Board Office, and John McKay,
Board Office Administrator

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Tisdale reviewed the January Board Meeting agenda. He said that the first
substantive order of business was the Pledge of Allegiance. After having spoken
with Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, he said that he
would propose the possibility of inviting children to lead the pledge of allegiance.
He said he had proposed a similar idea to the Cherry Hills Village City Council,
which did not incorporate the pledge of allegiance into its proceedings. He
suggested that the Board would bring in Boy Scout and Girl Scout Troops, science
clubs, sports teams, and other youth organizations, which would also lead to
wonderful photo opportunities to show the standing before the dais. He said that,
in the event of an overwhelming response from the public, the Board could
accommodate as many as 20 to 30 children in the well at a time.
Director Folska, Ph.D., supported the idea and said that allowing children to lead
the pledge would serve a huge purpose in reminding the Directors who they work
for. She said she would tie the concept with having a youth advisory council akin

to the Citizens Advisory Council (CAC). She stated that the City of Centennial had
such an entity and the participants offered useful suggestions. She said the
logistics would still have to be worked out.
Director Menten said that she was not interested in photo opportunities.
Chair Tisdale said the Board would not invite children just for the photo
opportunity, but that would be another benefit.
Director Menten stated that the Board’s first priority was the conduct of business
but said she would be fine with the change.
Chair Tisdale said that for the first meeting the Board could find staff members
from RTD to bring in their children, which would also have the benefits of creating
strong positive relationships with staff.
Director Deadwyler acknowledged her agreement.
Chair Tisdale said the idea was not to impose a heavy burden on staff and
suggested that, after the first time, inquiries would come in from other people.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that it might be useful to talk to Georgann Van Gemert,
Marketing Account Executive or Steve Reilly, Marketing Communications Manager,
because of their existing relationships with middle schools.
Director Menten said that she would request that this change not generate any
additional costs for the agency.
Chair Tisdale said that this proposal would only present an opportunity for children
and their parents to show up and for the parents to take photographs. As for staff
time, he said that the list of interested participants. Word spreads, it populates
itself.
General Manager Genova said that he mentioned in the Senior Leadership Team
(SLT) meeting that the Chair would be suggesting this proposal. He mentioned that
the process would have to be open to everyone and that both Ms. McManus and
Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel, would be working on the guidelines.
Chair Tisdale stated the more participants, the merrier.

Director Folska, Ph.D., noted that Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager
of Capital Programs, was involved with scouting. She said that Lisa Truong Nguyen
was a Girl Scouts coordinator and the Women’s Transportation Seminar (WTS) was
very supportive.
Chair Tisdale said that inviting children to lead the pledge would them the
opportunity to understand more about RTD.
Director Folska, Ph.D., mentioned that Cathy Noon, former Mayor of Centennial,
had instituted their youth advisory council. She agreed that instituting an open
process was an excellent idea.
Chair Tisdale said that the Board would be surprised by how quickly the entire
process would take care of itself. He also noted that there were five retirees for the
month of January.
Director Folska, Ph.D., jokingly said that the agency should not let operators retire.
General Manager Genova said that Greg Pennington, General Superintendent for
Infrastructure and employee of 29 years, was retiring. He said that Mr.
Pennington’s position had already been backfilled. He noted that Timothy Aguilar,
Lead Dispatcher, was also retiring after 29 years and would be missed as well.
Chair Tisdale said that the retiree awards were a great thing to share. He said the
duration of some of the employees was impactful and that honoring the retirees
was a great opportunity for outreach for current and former staff and the public and
showed that RTD is a great place to work.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether the agency mentions during recruitment
efforts that RTD employees often work for the agency for a long time.
General Manager Genova said that was mentioned and that there was opportunity
for advancement.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that it was almost unheard of anymore for employees
to stay with one company for so long
General Manager Genova said he had been with RTD for 24 years as of that month
and that he was proud of his years of service.

Chair Tisdale said that the duration of employees sent an incredible message. He
noted the next section of the agenda was for public participation and noted that
speakers are limited to three minutes.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that persons with disabilities and persons who need
interpreters could require additional time and should be given an additional 90
seconds.
Chair Tisdale said that not only those people but others could use extra time and
that the Board should always operate on the rule of reason, under which a person
could be given extra time should the circumstances require. He said that the rule of
reason would not be intended to be applied with favoritism for one group over
another, but rather the Board could accommodate a person when necessary. He
asked whether there were any updates on the committee reports.
Ms. McManus said that there were no changes.
Chair Tisdale asked whether Director Francone should be offered a chance to speak
regarding the update to the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee.
Ms. McManus agreed that she should.
Chair Tisdale moved on to the adoption of the Special Board Meeting Minutes and
then to the sections regarding the Chair’s report and the General Manager’s report.
He said that, instead of asking the Chair or General Manager to recite a written
report in committee packet, the Board could consider having the Chair and General
Manager indicate that the reports were in the materials and that they would
highlight certain pertinent topics, such as important meetings or other matters that
deserved special attention, and then open themselves up for questions. He
suggested that such a change would be a better use of the Board’s time.
Director Menten said that change would be fine. She said that the report could be
more focused on upcoming rather than past events, particularly for the Chair’s
Report. She said that the full recital of events might be nice for a few of the
attendees but noted that the events were posted on the website.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that the General Manager’s reports were thorough but
said it would be helpful to hear about major events on certain corridors and
important happenings and meetings, rather than more pedestrian events.

Chair Tisdale said that others he had spoken to echoed those thoughts. He said, for
example, that the Chair could address certain important topics such as the rumor
that the Metro Mayors’ Caucus (MMC) was proposing that the RTD Board of
Directors should change from an elected board to an appointed board. He said that
the Chair could use the Chair’s Report as an opportunity to say there was no truth
to that rumor and to help put things in context. He noted that some Directors like
to hear their names called for having attended certain events and suggested that
the Chair could announce how many events a given Director had attended during
the course of a month.
General Manager Genova said that SLT had contemplated the same change,
specifically listing fewer events and covering the most pertinent topics.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that the Donnell Kay Foundation was the source of the
rumor. She said she was uncomfortable in the past when the Chair would announce
her attendance at future events. She said she wanted people to know about the
town halls she would attend but noted that she felt awkward having her schedule
for the week laid out for the public.
Chair Tisdale said that sharing upcoming events during the course of a meeting did
not serve any particular purpose, unless the event was a major occasion.
Director Menten said that she liked that the upcoming events were posted online.
She said that, with the publishing of video recordings of meetings soon to take
place, that the public would be able to see the Board’s proceedings sooner than
they would have otherwise been able to access the minutes.
Folska, Ph.D., said that she did not find it necessary to announce that she was
scheduled to appear at a particular dinner.
Chair Tisdale said that it may be pertinent to announce certain meetings but noted
that routine matters were available on the two-week calendar.
Ms. McManus noted that the public two-week calendar did not specify which
Directors would attend events and said that the Chair’s Report and the General
Manager’s Report were not included on the web portal.
Chair Tisdale said that the Directors see the attendance listed.

Ms. McManus replied that the Board Office maintains two separate calendars, one
for the public and one listing the attendance of Directors, because previous
Directors did not want the public to know where they would be.
General Manager Genova reiterated that the agency did not publicize where
Directors would be.
Ms. McManus added that the portion of the Chair’s Report detailing which Directors
attended public events was added to show the public how active the board was.
Chair Tisdale said he thought it would be helpful to show how many appearances
at events Directors had made but said that going through the recitation of events
did not serve a particularly substantive purpose. He said that emphasizing
engagement, on the other hand, and giving Directors an opportunity to ask
questions did serve a valid purpose. He said the Board could try the more
abbreviated format in respect of everyone’s time, with the possibility of making
changes later.
Director Deadwyler agreed.
Ms. McManus asked whether the Chair’s Report and General Manager’s Report and
General Manager’s Report should be included in the packet.
Chair Tisdale agreed.
Ms. McManus asked Director Folska, Ph.D. whether she was fine with the public
knowing where she would be, given that the two-week calendar included in the
packet would show Directors’ attendance at future events.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said she thought the agreement was to not include every
detail.
Ms. McManus said she wanted Director Folska, Ph.D., to be comfortable with the
outcome.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that events were typically posted only when three or
more Directors attended.
Director Menten said that she did not report her attendance at meetings to the
Board Office. She said she was comfortable with letting the public know where she
was going or where she had been.

Ms. McManus noted that the events attended by Directors were all contained in the
two-week calendar and asked if the decision was to simply publish the version of
the two-week calendar that showed which events Directors would attend.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked the Chair to confirm that he would not simply read
the two-week calendar.
Chair Tisdale replied that was not his intention.
Director Menten clarified that the full calendar would be posted on the internet.
Director Deadwyler agreed.
Director Menten said that producing one less calendar would be easier.
Chair Tisdale asked whether he was right in thinking that the two-week calendar
was prospective rather than retrospective. He said he was not suggesting that
there be a retrospective discussion at the Board Meeting
Ms. McManus replied that the two-week calendar is only a snapshot of events.
Chair Tisdale finished reviewing the agenda and asked if anyone had questions.
Motion:

Chair Tisdale made the motion to approve
moving the January 30th, 2018 Board agenda to
the full Board.
Director Folska, Ph.D., seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0
opposed.

Other Matters
Chair Tisdale said that he wanted to speak to two matters, the first relative to the
Board-only retreat. He said that he wanted to make sure that the members of the
Executive Committee would reach out to the other Directors to attend and
participate. He said that the retreat was a terrific opportunity. He also mentioned
that, for the facilitator for the joint Board/SLT retreat, Director Menten, Ms.
McManus and he would meet to go over responses to the Request for Proposals

(RFP). He suggested that another Director who was not on the Executive
Committee should be invited to attend as well in order to add another set of eyes.
Director Folska, Ph.D. recommended Director Archuleta. Regarding the Board-only
retreat, she said she had no problem reaching out to the other Directors but
mentioned that the Directors did not want to attend only to hear about Robert’s
Rules of Order. She asked what role Centennial City Attorney Bob Widner would
play.
Chair Tisdale said he and Ms. McManus had spoken with Mr. Widner earlier that
week. Chair Tisdale said he had known Mr. Widner for 25 years and stated that Mr.
Widner was an expert in area of local government meetings. He said Mr. Widner
would not review Robert’s Rules or anything even close. He said he would speak to
his own experience and his accumulation of best practices for effective meetings in
order to set the table for the discussion with Ligia Velazquez, Commissioner from
the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS).
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that her impression of the Board-only retreat was that
the Directors would discuss issues important to each member, so as to compile a
list of issues to take to the joint Board/SLT retreat. She said she did not see where
Mr. Widner or any facilitator would fit in to the agenda and that other Directors did
not want to attend for that reason. She said the retreat should be a brainstorming
session, otherwise certain other Directors would not come.
Chair Tisdale said that brainstorming ideas was the reason for the flip chart, which
nearly all of the Directors had completed. He said there were two parts of chart of
the chart, one asking how the Board could be more effective and one asking for
two topics the Directors wanted to address during the Board-only retreat. He said
that Mr. Widner’s role would be to set up the second question, which would help
the Directors address those issues and in turn assist and facilitate the Directors’
discussion with Ms. Velazquez. He noted that, even though there are 15 Directors,
who were each given the opportunity to suggest two topics of conversation, there
were really only a few topics that rose to the top among everyone’s concerns. He
said that Mr. Widner’s participation would assist with creating a productive
discussion.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that was what felt redundant. She said that people
wanted to come to be productive and that it was clear to her they were not
interested in Mr. Widner’s participation.

Director Menten said that she also did not want Mr. Widner’s participation and that
she was not the only one.
Chair Tisdale said that the question could be posed to the full Board at the Board
Meeting on the following Tuesday but suggested that the Directors could all benefit
from a periodic reminder of both the principles Mr. Widner would speak to and of
the notion that they should be open to new ideas.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether Mr. Widner could participate in the joint
Board/SLT retreat instead.
Chair Tisdale said that could be a consideration. He said he would still like to
discuss the possibility of the potential benefits of taking 30 minutes out of the
Board retreat.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that Mr. Widner could perhaps facilitate the joint
Board/SLT retreat. She said the previous facilitator had become dismissive, and
patronizing. She said the Board should look at someone with a more sophisticated
strategy. He said the Executive Committee could vote on whether Mr. Widner
would remain as part of the program or not.
Chair Tisdale said that Director Folska, Ph.D., had accurately described the
conversation he and Ms. McManus had with Mr. Widner, in that Board was not
interested in having someone come and condescend to them considering that he
would be speaking to people who were educated in the issues and were working
well as a board. He said Mr. Widner’s participation was not intended to be anything
other than sharing new information and insights from his professional training that
might be of benefit. He guaranteed Mr. Widner would not merely repeat the obvious
but would instead engage the Directors by sharing his experience.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked again whether, as a compromise, Mr. Widner could be
considered instead for the role of facilitator for the joint Board/SLT retreat.
Director Menten said that the initial discussion about a Board-only retreat came
from two different sources, former Chair Hoy, who was working on one type of
retreat, and Director Lubow, who was interested in a brainstorming session. She
said the intent of the retreat was never to discuss Board effectiveness and that
none of the Directors were new to being on a Board. Specifically, she said that
Director Archuleta and others were not interested in attending.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that Board members had stated that they did not want
to have a presentation on Board effectiveness and suggested that the retreat be
held as intended.
Chair Tisdale asked if Ms. McManus had any insights she would like to share as a
result of the discussion.
Ms. McManus said that Ms. Velazquez would have to be notified that she would
now be responsible for leading the entire retreat.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that Ms. Velazquez could continue to do what she had
planned.
Chair Tisdale said that he understood there was consternation over Mr. Widner’s
participation. He said he may not have done an adequate job of expressing what
Mr. Widner understood his role to be. He said that he and Ms. McManus had
spoken with him about incorporating the Board’s thoughts into his presentation. He
asked Director Deadwyler whether she had any concerns about Mr. Widner’s
participation.
Director Deadwyler said she did have concerns.
Chair Tisdale suggested that the question of Mr. Widner’s participation be held over
until the “other matters” section of the Board meeting. He said that out of respect
for Mr. Widner he wanted to give him enough notice and that he did not feel
comfortable removing Mr. Widner from the Board retreat agenda without input from
the full Board.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether the Executive Committee could just take a
vote.
Chair Tisdale said that he did not want the sense of the Board to be that the
Executive Committee acted unilaterally at its first meeting and that he wanted the
Directors to work collaboratively.
Director Menten said she would be fine with a vote because she suspected the
majority of the Board did not want Mr. Widner to participate.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said the Directors had made their thoughts known.

Chair Tisdale responded that his hesitancy was that the question of Mr. Widner’s
participation had already been put to the Board as a whole.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether open discussion was the best use of the
Board’s time.
Director Deadwyler agreed that polling the full Board would be fair.
Ms. McManus said that, if the Directors did not want to have the issue discussed in
a public forum, the polling could be done as the Board did with other events.
Chair Tisdale said that he and Ms. McManus would work on a poll that would be
due by close of business the following day.
Director Folska, Ph.D., agreed that polling was a good suggestion.
Director Folska asked what matter Director Walker had wanted to discuss with the
Executive Committee.
Chair Tisdale said he did not know and that Director Walker may address the
Executive Committee at another time. He said he was glad the committee decided
to conduct the polling for Mr. Widner’s participation.
Director Menten asked who else would attend the retreat.
Chair Tisdale said that Ms. McManus and John McKay, Board Office Administrator,
would attend. He said that the meeting would be public and that anyone could
come. He said there was a question as to whether General Manager Genova should
attend and noted he had not been asked to participate, though he was welcome as
anyone else.
Director Menten asked whether General Manager Genova was planning on
attending.
General Manager Genova said he was not unless the Board asked him to attend.
Director Menten said the Directors would prefer to have their own time to
themselves and asked whether the retreat would end by noon.

Chair Tisdale said yes but noted the Directors could stay longer if there was more
to say. He said the retreat would be held in Conference Room A.
Ms. McManus noted that Conference Rooms B and C were available if the Directors
needed breakout room.
Director Deadwyler asked why both Ms. McManus and Mr. McKay would need to
attend.
Chair Tisdale said that the meeting would need to be recorded and that neither Ms.
McManus or Mr. McKay would participate. He said their presence was a matter of
logistics for recording of information as statutorily mandated for public meetings.
Director Deadwyler said that two people should not have to give up their
Saturdays.
Chair Tisdale said that it was an imposition the Board was stuck with.
Director Deadwyler said she did not buy his answer.
Chair Tisdale said he did not know whether there was any way around it. He said
staff needed to be there to provide service for public meeting.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that Director Deadwyler’s concern was for having two
staff members in attendance.
Chair Tisdale said the question of having one or two staff members present was
one he would leave to staff.
Ms. McManus said she would prefer two staff members to attend because of the
breadth of the responsibilities required.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that made sense and that the job would be too much
for one person because of the logistics involved. She said the person taking notes
should focus on that task.
Ms. McManus said staff did not take verbatim meetings and that Mr. McKay would
report the major points, from which Ms. Velazquez would create an executive
summary.

Chair Tisdale said that it was his view that the Board should rely on staff’s best
judgment.
Director Deadwyler said she was fine if two staff members were required to attend.
Director Menten asked for an update on the recently released video RFP.
Ms. McManus said that there were two RFPs, one which closed the previous day
and one which would close that week. She said there would be a review of the
submittals once the second RPF closed. She said Communications had been
working to video record the meetings but noted that no Communications staff
resources were identified as being able to record following the January 30, 2018,
meeting.
Director Menten said that she received a letter from State Representatives Jonathan
Singer and Kevin Van Winkle, who serve on the Colorado Channel Advisory Board
(CCAB), which encouraged the Board to consider the Open Media Foundation
(OMF) for its recording needs. She said Representative Van Winkle indicated OMF’s
services would be offered for little or no cost.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether OMF’s videos were closed captioned.
Director Menten responded that they were captioned through Google’s services.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that she was aware of a software license that would
offer close captioning services for $500 per year.
Chair Tisdale asked whether the group was included in the RFP.
Ms. McManus said they were aware of the RFP because Mr. McKay let them know
when it would hit the street.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked why there were two RFPs.
Ms. McManus said that one RFP would cover video operations and one would cover
closed captioning.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that the video vendor should have access to the
captioning software she had mentioned.

Chair Tisdale asked which RFP had already closed.
Ms. McManus said that the RFP for video operation was closed.
Chair Tisdale said that the Board could ask OMF why they did not submit a
proposal if the responses to the RFP were less than vibrant.
Mr. McKay stated that the services offered for free or low-cost by OMF would
cover online hosting of video files, rather than video camera operation, which was
the service sought by RTD’s RFP. He also noted that the closed captioning service
provided by Google through YouTube-hosted videos did not offer the level of
accuracy mandated for videos produced by entities receiving federal funding.
Ms. McManus said that the agency had tested YouTube as a possible host for
meeting videos and that the test was not successful.
Chair Tisdale said that it was worthwhile to know that other options exist but that
they may not work for RTD’s needs.
General Manager Genova said that the robustness and accuracy of other captioning
options were not at the level that was necessary for RTD.
Ms. McManus noted that the first contact with OMF was a sales call prior to the
date of the letter from the CCAB.
General Manager Genova said he had only recently received a copy of the CCAB
letter from Julie McKenna of Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs.
Director Menten said that she received letters from Amanda Chilten and others
asking how to access meeting minutes. She asked, if the Board were to replace the
summarized minutes with a video and a shorter document detailing the official
actions taken by the Board, whether corrections would be able to be made to the
closed captioning file.
Ms. McManus said that minutes as the Board knew them would be going away but
noted that the Board Office staff would be responsible for ensuring the accuracy of
the closed captioning and its corresponding transcript. She said staff would have
the ability to make all corrections, including acronyms. She said that the vendor
selected through the RFP would be provided with documentation of terms to help
with the transcription.

Chair Tisdale described the document as a glossary.
Director Menten said that users were able to control the playback speed of videos
on YouTube and asked whether that would be possible.
Ms. McManus said that the videos would be hosted on the same portal as the
meeting minutes.
Director Menten asked if the video player would offer playback speed control.
Ms. McManus replied that it would not.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that she had never watched closed captioned videos
and asked whether the CSPAN offered verbatim live captioning.
Chair Tisdale said that it was not verbatim.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked why RTD would be held to a higher standard than the
federal government.
Ms. McManus said that the standard of accuracy could be set by the Board.
Chair Tisdale said that the committee had raised excellent questions but suggested
they may be premature and could be answered during the review of the responses
to the RFP.
Director Menten said that would be fine and that she wanted to be involved. She
also asked to know how many people accessed the meeting minutes via the
Meeting Portal. She said that her impression was that few people actually used the
minutes.
Ms. McManus said that an external vendor hosts the minutes and that the Board
Office would work with them. She said that the level of detail in the traffic data
analysis may not give the specific history on which files were accessed.
Director Menten said she would be curious how many people used the website. She
said, even if there were not many users, that did not mean that hosting the files
online was not worthwhile.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said the number of website hits was something the Board
needed to know anyway.
Chair Tisdale suggested that the numbers could be analyzed when review of the
responses to the RFP.
Director Menten mentioned that the gates along the Gold Line corridor were staying
down for a long time, in excess of two minutes. She asked if that was a known
problem or whether it was part of normal testing. She stated that people were
posting videos online of the gates staying down.
General Manager Genova said that the delay could be the result of testing the
conventional activation system and not the wireless system. He said the
conventional activations were usually longer in duration. He said that could be a
factor and that it could be part of the testing and not part of normal operation.
Director Menten said she would like to see the gate operation for herself and asked
for General Manager Genova to provide her with a timetable so that she could
watch. She also asked for a list of advertisers the agency uses for help wanted ads.
Ms. McManus said the agency used 24 different firms.
General Manager Genova also mentioned that Scott Reed, Assistant General
Manager of Communications, was compiling the number of Spanish-language
stations used for advertising.
Director Menten said those numbers would be helpful for her to have before the
Board-only retreat because one of the topics would be workforce development.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked to know which lines displayed the ads.
General Manager Genova said that deadhead buses also display digitally that the
agency is hiring operators and mechanics.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether hard copies of ads were placed on board.
General Manager Genova said that hard copies are displayed inside and on the
backs of buses.

Chair Tisdale said that it would be helpful to know the scope of the advertising
initiatives currently under way.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said that ads were one part of a recruitment strategy and
asked to know what else was being done for recruitment. She said the agency’s
biggest problem was the employee shortage.
Director Menten asked about the shortfall of mechanics and mentioned that she had
attended a town hall, where she met a student who had heard about a scholarship
for the mechanic program offered through Warren Tech.
General Manager Genova said that the agency was only down slightly on
mechanics but low on bus and rail operators. He stated the Board would soon see a
significant change in wages as part of the budget recommendations, though he said
he could not at that time speak publicly regarding the exact amounts.
Regarding the mechanic shortage, Director Folska, Ph.D., said that the agency had
met with Aurora Community College six months earlier and at that time Bruce Abel,
Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
said that the agency did not have a single opening.
General Manager Genova said that the number of mechanics ebbs and flows and
that the maintenance groups engage with groups all over to ensure a pipeline of
potential candidates.
Chair Tisdale asked if it was fair to say that the mechanic situation has been
alleviated substantially.
General Manager Genova agreed. He said the full Board would receive a memo
regarding the WIN Program by the end of the week. He noted that, Martell Dyles,
WIN Program Manager, was leaving to start his own business. He said the WIN
program was shifting focus toward operations and maintenance as opposed to
construction and was expanding to take on more of an outreach role. He said that
the program could operate bilingually and could be moved to the Human Resources
Department, so that the agency would have a broader recruiting outreach with
various organizations. He said this was an opportunity to make the program better
and that the biggest benefit would be to feed jobs to the agency jobs. He stated
that a memo would be sent out on the following day.
Director Menten asked whether the agency had submitted hard copies of letters to
both Mile High Connects and 9to5 Colorado stating that RTD was hiring bus

operators. She said she would like it to be on the record that current versions of
those letters were sent.
General Manager Genova said that, the last time RTD had met with those
organizations, the agency stated that it would partner with organizations to offer
people great jobs. He said that the organizations were made aware of the offer at
the highest levels.
Director Menten asked that the General Manager copy the Board on future
correspondence.
Chair Tisdale clarified that what Director Menten was asking was a record that the
agency has made continuing outreach efforts.
Director Folska, Ph.D., stated that a press release could be sent out as well.
Director Deadwyler said that she wanted to speak to the Chair at a later date
regarding the Workplace Initiative Now (WIN) Program.
Director Lubow apologized for being late to the meeting.
General Manager Genova said that he had recently attended a great Mobility Choice
Board Meeting during which the consultant presented its proposal. He said the RTD
Board would receive at least four additional briefings and that he was encouraged
by what he saw. He noted that RTD’s new Chief Operating Officer, Michael Ford,
would be starting on Monday, who was previously involved in executive
management of transit agencies. He said Mr. Ford would be outstanding addition to
RTD. He noted that there would be a forthcoming rail shutdown due to a tie-in with
the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE), which would impact the two stations for a
total of nine days, from a Friday night until the following Sunday. He said the Board
would receive additional information in the next Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Meeting. He said that there would not be a bus bridge because CDOT
planned to do work in the same area at that time.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 1:45 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

