2023-02-14
Finance and Planning Committee
COMPUTERIZED VOICE: Recording in progress.
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. The Tuesday, February 14 meeting of the RTD Finance and Planning
Committee will now come to order. Happy Valentine's Day to all. We are convened this evening as of 5:30
PM, Mountain Standard Time, and I would respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting please to
mute yourself until you are recognized to speak.
We want to thank you all for joining us this evening in lieu of other activities you might be pursuing.
Please note that for the next few months, the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will
continue to be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded, while the meetings of the full
Board, which are generally held on the fourth Tuesday of each month, will be held in person commencing
in March. They will also be available for audio and video recording. And all of that information-- those
recordings and the unofficial minutes of the meetings-- will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website.
Please visit RTD hyphen Denver dot com to find those. And in addition, a live stream of this meeting,
along with all of the other meetings, is available via RTD's YouTube page. Now, Directors and members
of staff, for the sake of a comprehensible record, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's
proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call upon you before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing Star 9 on your telephone. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, just press Star
6. So I will now call the role for the committee members. Director Peggy Catlin
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Board Chair Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Michael Guzman. I believe Director Guzman is absent. He may be joining us
later. Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Vice Chair Erik Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.

DOUG TISDALE: And I am Doug Tisdale and serve as the Chair and I am present. For the record, I will
note that we also have Directors Bob Broom and Marjorie Sloan with us in the meeting. Are there any
other Directors who are present whom I have not acknowledged?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
DOUG TISDALE: Buzek, Director Buzek. Thank you very much for speaking up, sir. We appreciate that.
We now open our public comment session. Anyone who would like to address this committee regarding
any topic that's listed in the published meeting agenda for the current or for the preceding month-- the
immediately preceding month-- may speak at this time. If you wish to speak, please either raise your
virtual hand or press Star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak.
If you are dialed in on your phone, please press Star 6 to toggle your mute settings. But first I will note for
the sake of the record that Director Michael Guzman has joined us this evening and is present in the
committee meeting. Now, please bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, by participating in this process of
public comment, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need
to be submitted to us in writing.
And if any speaker has any documentation or reference materials for the committee or if any member of
the public would like to submit written comments in lieu of public statements, please email those materials
to the Board Office at the following email address-- RTD dot Board Office at RTD hyphen Denver dot
com. During public comment, the committee will not offer any comments or responses.
Directors or staff may, at their discretion, contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters
that would lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin by stating their name at the beginning of
their remarks, and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. So let me ask now is there anyone in
the queue wishing to speak? Ms. Parish, can you identify that, please?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, we have three speakers in the queue, and our first speaker is Jaime Lewis.
Thank you very much. Jaime Lewis, you are recognized.
JAIME LEWIS: Good evening. Happy Valentine's Day, everybody. It's kind of awkward to have to work on
a holiday night. My name is Jaime Lewis. I live at 1135 Broadway. And I am the Transit Advisor for the
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. I've been involved with the last two RTD fare studies and
recommendations and wanted to share my enthusiasm for the latest recommendations from the Fare
Study group. From my experience, these recommendations are the most worthy that I've seen since
working in transit in the Denver Metro area.
We are glad that you have included the Paratransit discount and provided this population access to the
LiVE program, providing even bigger discounts, however, I think the game-changer will be lowering of the
monthly passes for the general public. Current riders will be happy to see a lowering of their fares, but the
lowering of the monthly pass should attract new riders. This will not only increase ridership but also help
offset any lost revenues from lowering the fares.
My hope is that you have a robust marketing effort to get the word out if and when you approve these
proposed rates. I encourage you to provide marketing materials to your nonprofit networks and to ensure
that marketing of the new fares includes comparisons to owning and operating a car. In some cases,
having these new rates may encourage people to drop one of their two vehicles or eliminate owning a car

altogether. I don't have to explain how important that is to our health and our future. Thank you for your
time and encourage you to approve the proposed fare changes. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Lewis. We appreciate your comments as always. Ms. Parish,
may I ask you to introduce our next public comment?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, next, we have Molly McKinley.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Molly McKinley, the floor is yours.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Good evening, Board members, and staff. Thanks for hosting this public comment
period this evening. I'm Molly McKinley, and I'm the Policy Director for the Denver Streets Partnership
which is a coalition of community organizations advocating for people-friendly streets. Denver Streets
Partnership was one of the organizations that supported the community outreach efforts for the
Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis, and I'm here to offer some feedback similar to what Jaime
just offered about what's proposed in your agenda packet this evening.
First and foremost, I think there's a lot to be excited about here. It's great to see the simplification of the
past structure of the fare capping, the lower monthly pass costs for all, lower fares for the discount
programs and Access-a-Ride, expanded eligibility for the discount programs, and Free Fares for Youth.
These changes will make a meaningful difference in the lives of folks who use transit regularly. Of course,
in an ideal world, there would be enough budgetary flexibility to reduce base fares even further, but with
limited flexibility, it's good to see RTD prioritizing folks who rely on the service.
On the other hand, I would like to see RTD use the community feedback that they got from this extensive
process to advocate for themselves. If people are expressing that they would use transit if it was cheaper
or free, RTD should be lifting that up to state and local governments to say this is what we're hearing will
get more people on transit and we need your support to make that happen. Fare-free August last year
was such a success because of the partnership between RTD and the state. What's possible if we look at
something like that longer term? The same goes for the Free Youth Fare pilot. There's a real need for
more sustained funding to improve service and affordability, and the time is ripe to ask for that support.
I just want to flag two things that I think could be improved upon before wrapping up here. First, the $2.75
full fare and $1.35 discount 3-Hour Pass gives me a little bit of pause. I get that RTD really wants folks to
use the MyRide app, and card, and all of those good things, but the reality is that some folks are going to
still continue paying with cash, and those folks are going to end up paying more either with the full fare or
the discount fare because of that.
I'd also like to see the barriers to the discount program lowered. It's one thing for lower fares for those
passes, but it's another to make sure that those savings are really fully accessible to people who need
them the most. For instance, currently, a valid address is required to qualify for those programs and that
leaves our unhoused neighbors unable to qualify. Public transit is essential and should be affordable and
easily accessible to everyone in our community.
I'll wrap up by just saying I'm sure that some folks will see the headlines about the proposed 3-Hour Pass
change from $3 to $2.75 and be disappointed. From the headline, it looks like RTD did this extensive
process and lowered fares by $0.25. Do I wish that was a little more significant? Of course, that's my job,
but I hope that RTD and its partners use this opportunity to communicate the steep discounts that are
available if you use transit more often. This proposal really incentivizes regular transit use and I hope that

message gets to everyday people in the region and they give transit a shot. And we're certainly here to
partner to help make sure that gets communicated as widely as we possibly can as well. Thanks for the
time tonight, and I'm looking forward to your discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much for your comments, Ms. McKinley. We appreciate them. And,
Ms. Parish, I believe you indicated there was a third speaker in the queue. Would you please introduce
that person now?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, our final speaker is Christopher Nicholson.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And, Christopher Nicholson, you now have the floor.
CHRISTOPHER NICHOLSON: Hi there. Thank you for giving me a chance to speak. I wanted to come on
just very quickly and say two things. The first off is to echo the other speakers, extremely enthusiastic
about the changes that are on deck for today. In my wildest dreams of following RTD over the last couple
of years, I could not have expected that you would reduce the monthly pass the way you're doing, reduce
the cost of the fares, get rid of the regional fares, which is huge for people who go up to Boulder. I think
that it's a huge win.
The one thing I want to highlight is something that I've actually talked about with multiple candidates for
municipal office here in Denver because I did not ever think RTD would just do it on its own, and that is
eliminating the fares for young people because there are so many teenagers and early college students
who RTD is the only way for them to get around. Their parents don't have cars, or they do, but their
parents are busy at work. And I'm a full RTD user. I don't have a car.
All too often when I'm on transit, I see 15, 16-year-old kids putting $3 in the meter in order to be able to
get a ride on the bus because they don't have access to the discount program. They don't know where to
get it. They couldn't probably sign up for it without getting a bunch of help. And so if we have this new full
free pass in place-- and I actually chatted about this a little bit with Director Dishell-- that if that requires
you to go down and sign up for something, and fill out paperwork, and do all of that, then it's going to be
kids who have the understanding and the means to get access to it who are going to use it.
If you're going to do this, it should be I can get on the bus, I can show you my school ID, or maybe you're
not even going to check ID, I look 15, I look 16, and I can just ride. And so my one strong encouragement
is please do not handicap what will be a transformational change for RTD by requiring kids to get
documented proof that they should get a free fare. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Christopher. We appreciate your comments and as we have with
all of the folks during our public comment session. Are there any other persons in the queue for public
comment, Ms. Parish?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there are no additional hands raised.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, and may I ask, as I understand it, we had one emailed comment. Would you
identify that email comment for the record, which will be included as part of the minutes of this
proceeding?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, we had one email from Steven Shulbat regarding the rate changes.

DOUG TISDALE: All right, fine. Thank you. And for the sake of the record, it will be attached, but it was a
very favorable comment. With no other participants in the queue or having submitted email comments, we
will now close the public comment session at this time. There is no scheduled information from external
entities this month.
That said, there is one very significant event that came from an external entity last week, which was the
judgment from the Denver District Court in favor of RTD, ruling that the agency is not responsible for over
$100 million in costs incurred for flaggers on the A, B, and G lines, and we all collectively say
congratulations to the staff and the lawyers and the Directors who provided support in this long, and
ultimately, very successful process.
We turn now to recommended actions. There are two recommended actions on the agenda this evening.
The first action relates to the salaried trustee appointment. And the resolution is for the Board of Directors
to approve resolution number blank series of 2023 replacing Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer, with
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, as trustee with a term expiring December 31, 2023, replacing
Kent Enwright, Manager, Labor Relations, with Adam Barnett, Manager, Total Rewards as a trustee with
a term expiring December 31, 2024, extending the December 31, '22, expired term of Bill Weidenaar,
Manager, Technical Services, as a trustee through December 31, 2024, extending the December 31,
2022, expired term of Director Bob Broom as a trustee through December 31, 2024, and replacing
Director Peggy Catlin, whose term expired December 31, 2022, with Director Bobby Dishell as a trustee
with a term expiring December 31, 2024, for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit Pension Plan-- the
DB Plan-- and the Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Retirement Plan-- the DC Plan. May I have a
motion, please?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Catlin has made the motion. Is there a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And that was from?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Davidson.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, thank you, OK. I couldn't see you there. I'm sorry. Thank you very much. OK, so we
have Director Catlin as the movant and Director Davidson as the second. I would now like to invite Doug
MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, to present this item to the committee. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and good evening. Just wanted to give a quick summary to
provide some context to this action item. RTD has two separate retirement plans as the Chair indicated,
one being the Defined Benefit Pension Plan, which is for salaried or non-represented employees, also
known as non-represented employees, that were hired before January 1, of 2008.
All non-represented employees hired since January 1, 2008, are in the DC Plan-- the Defined
Contribution Plan-- which is similar to a 401(k)-type plan, which unlike the DB Plan, which pays a defined
benefit during retirement, this plan accumulates assets to which the employee's entitled upon retirement.
Each plan is overseen by a Board of Trustees which serve in a fiduciary role to oversee the management
of plan assets and benefits, and it also uses, the trustee utilizes the expertise of trust attorneys,
investment advisors, and actuaries.

Trustees serve two-year terms that are staggered with the five staff trustees recommended for
appointment by the General Manager and CEO, and the RTD Board Chair recommending appointment of
the two Board member trustees for Board approval. With the recent expiration of some trustee terms at
the end of 2022, and Charlene Polege, and Adam Barnett, recently joining RTD as the Chief People
Officer and Manager of Total Rewards respectively, this action item seeks Board approval to appoint and
set service terms for each trustee.
Appointing Ms. Polege, and Mr. Barnett will align their expertise in human resources and benefits with the
skills needed by the trust to effectively contribute to the management of the plans. Director Broom has
served several years as a trustee and will continue to serve with approval of this action item. Director
Peggy Catlin has also served as a trustee for several years and has made many valuable contributions,
and I'd like to thank Director Catlin on behalf of the trust for her service. Director Catlin will be replaced by
Director Dishell, and the trust look forward to his contributions as well should the Board approve this
action item.
Those conclude my comments, Mr. Chair, and I would like to turn the floor back to you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. So at this time, I would ask those Directors who
have questions or who wish to speak on this matter to raise your virtual hands and I will call on each of
you in turn. We call for Directors or staff who are calling into the meeting if you wish to speak, please
press Star 9. Let us commence with the Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Selfishly, I wanted to stay on the Board of Trustees for the
pension plan because I really believe it provides an insight into what our employees are facing, and also,
it really engages Board members with regard to our Employee Ownership Pledge. And but I thought it
would be better to get another Director involved, and I'm pleased to know that Director Dishell is willing to
serve on this committee, and I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. It's really, really insightful. So pending
approval of this appointment, I just want to say that it's a really rewarding term and it doesn't take a lot of
time, but it's truly a great place to be, so thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Catlin, and thank you for your service as well. Are there other
Directors who wish to speak to this recommended action at this time? Director Dishell, you are
recognized.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Thank you all for the confidence to serve in this role protecting what for
many people is their most valuable asset, which is their retirement. Staff, to the extent you want to talk
about it, my door is open to talk about different plans, subject to different HR requirements and legal
requirements, but it's an honor to serve, and should I be confirmed, an honor to serve in the role, and
looking forward to working to protect and advance that really important asset of one's retirement. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Dishell. Are there any other Directors who wish to speak on the
motion? Seeing none. We have a motion by Director Catlin as seconded by Committee Vice Chair
Davidson. Are there any no votes on this recommended action? I see no indication of any no votes. That
will come as a unanimous vote of this committee. Seven aye votes, no no votes, and no abstentions, and,
therefore, the matter moves on to the full Board meeting on February 28 with the recommendation of this
committee.

The second recommended action that we have this evening relates to the town of Parker Anthology
annexation. And the recommended action is for the Board of Directors to approve the annexation petition
from Anthology Management for inclusion of a 984-acre parcel into the district. Upon approval of this
annexation, the area would become a part of District G, currently represented by Director Bouquet. May I
have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Director Dishell.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Dishell has a motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And the second from Chair Guissinger, so I will now ask Chris Quinn, who is our
Planning Project Manager, to present to us on this item. Mr. Quinn, the floor is yours.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you. Good evening, again. Chris Quinn with our RTD Planning. State statute
allows for properties to come into the district through a couple of different mechanisms, one of which is for
a property owner to petition inclusion. In this particular case, a landowner in Parker, about approximately
984 acres, has petitioned for inclusion into the district. The petition for annexation has been reviewed by
RTD Legal Counsel, and the legal description has been reviewed by RTD's Boundary Mapping
Consultant for sufficiency.
The property in question is currently vacant, generally located in the vicinity of kind of a little bit West of
Motsenbocker Road, Stroh Road, and Hess Road. The proposed zoning for the property includes some
commercial, but mostly residential. RTD anticipates that from a revenue standpoint, it might be because
of the commercial property, there might be a slight uptick in RTD sales tax revenues, and then also a
slight uptick due to automobile registrations of the future residents.
There is currently no service in the immediate vicinity. The closest service is the P Route which is
approximately two miles to the West on South Parker Road, but obviously, as part of RTD's new
partnership process through the service councils, additional services could be requested as the area
builds out. The recommendation is for this property to be included as part of Director District G, Director
Bouquet's since it is immediately adjacent to his district. With that, I'd be happy to try to respond to any
questions that any Board members might have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Quinn. We appreciate your presentation. And let me turn first
then to Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much and, thank you, Mr. Quinn, for coming tonight and presenting this
to us, and to others who have been involved in the work to get us here. Where are we on the
development timeline for this property, and at what point do we sort of anticipate residents, in particular,
being there that might need service?
CHRIS QUINN: I don't have a good answer to that question. I believe the applicant is present. I don't
know if he might be able to respond to that question because I believe they're right now, in the process of
finalizing the zoning for the property, and the applicant is Matt Janke. I know he was to be included. Let's
see, or I guess I can't see.
DOUG TISDALE: And if I may, Mr. Quinn, I see that Matt Janke is present in the committee and has
raised his hand.

CHRIS QUINN: Oh, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: So at this time with your indulgence, I will recognize Matt Janke. And, sir, the floor is
yours.
MATT JANKE: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for letting me speak to you
this evening. In terms of the status of this project, the first 495 lots have received final plan approval. We
expect to start development on those lots here still this quarter, so late March is when we're planning on
it. As we all know, unfortunately, the real estate market isn't all that great, so we expect it's going to be
probably about two years before we have residents out here. The complete first phase of the project,
which is divided up into three subphases, is a total of 1,532 units. At full build-out of the project, there will
be just over 3,000. Full build-out, candidly, depending on the market, could take a decade or more.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, thank you, nothing further from my end on that, though I may have a question
for staff later on. So I'll put my hand down until it's time for the second bite.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, and thank you Mr. Janke for participating, for being present this evening as
your property is being discussed for possible inclusion into the district. I thought I saw Director Guzman's
hand, but I don't see it now. But I do see now Director Catlin's hand raised, so, Director Catlin, the floor is
yours.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you and this is probably more for staff. You mentioned that there were a number
of areas, kind of pockets of areas that are not included, and I would be curious to see where some of
those other areas are in the Parker area. And I know that there are some other proposed developments
adjacent to Mr. Janke's property that are slated for development with multifamily units, so I was just
curious to see what other parcels are not in the district then could be petitioning at a later date. So I don't
know if that's something that staff could have or not.
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, that's certainly something we can provide you with. The three areas where we
have the most issues with parcels being kind of almost checkerboarded in and out of the district are in
Parker, Southeast Aurora, and in Erie just due to the way the annexation statutes have worked over time.
And so there are parcels in all three of those jurisdictions that even though they are in the local
jurisdiction, they are not part of RTD, which does create a lot of confusion. So, yes, we can provide you
with a more detailed map zooming in on that.
PEGGY CATLIN: And no hurry on my part. I'm just curious. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Is there any other Director who would like to speak? I'm looking
to see if I see a hand raised. Director Dishell, we're back to you again, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. This question is for staff. If this ends up going through, would the Parker
FlexRide region be expanded to also accommodate this, or would this be sort of outside that FlexRide
area?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, at this point we wouldn't anticipate any new services directly serving the
development, however, as noted earlier, obviously, there would be the opportunity through the service
councils and the partnership program to apply for expanded service if desired.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Dishell. Are there any other Directors with questions for staff or
comments on the recommended action at this time? Seeing no hands raised and hearing no indications,
we have before us now the motion by Director Dishell, and the second by Board Chair Guissinger. Are
there any no votes on the recommended action for the annexation of Anthology?
Hearing none, then we will declare that there are seven yes votes, no no votes, and no abstentions, and
that motion passes unanimously and will be referred to the full Board for the February 28 meeting. I will
note two things, by the way, before we go to the discussion item, and that is that Director Ruscha has
joined us now, so I would like the record to reflect that. And then also, I have sincere apologies to
Charlene Polege for having destroyed her name and my pronunciation during the earlier discussion on
the first recommended action.
We turn now to discussion items. There is one discussion item on the agenda this evening, and it has
already received a significant amount of attention in the media. I'm speaking, of course, of the update that
we are about to receive on our extensive comprehensive Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis.
This is a monumental effort that we have been pursuing for the past two years-plus with widespread
outreach to a host of constituencies.
You're going to see an informative PowerPoint presentation tonight, but I hope that everyone takes the
time to read the excellent detailed 13-page-plus report summarizing all of this work. That report provides
a tremendous discussion explaining all of this. Now, we cannot repeat all of that information tonight, but
the staff report is available to everyone and can be found on the RTD website, and I urge you to study
that in detail. And now, it's my privilege to introduce Debra A. Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of
RTD, to introduce the staff discussion on this revolutionary proposal. Madam CEO, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair, and good evening to all assembled. As introduced,
I'm Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District. I am before
you tonight with Bill Sirois, our Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, Carl Green, Jr., Director
of the Civil Rights Division, as well as Chris Quinn, just heard from on the last item, who serves as the
Planning Project Manager.
We will be presenting an update on the agency Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis, which was
so eloquently introduced by the Chair of this committee. As you have heard me share on several
occasions, RTD's fare structure is quite cumbersome and difficult for customers to understand. I was one
of those customers who found it challenging to discern the appropriate fare I needed to pay to utilize the
system.
Not only was it confusing, but the fares were higher than transit agencies for which I worked and/or used
throughout the country, keeping in mind if I was unable to decipher fares with my 30 years in the transit
space, how challenging might it be for others? This was actually back in September of 2020, prior to
assuming my position as the General Manager and CEO. During the course of my first few months, I met
with a myriad of people ranging from employees, customers, stakeholders, advocacy groups, as well as
the Board, and the one common denominator was our fares being a barrier for those looking to use our
transit system to access activity centers such as employment sites, schools, university, and entertainment
venues, just to name a few.
So with that as a backdrop, I conferred with staff and initiated some outreach efforts that inform the scope
and goals of the Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis that formally commenced in April of 2022.
The primary focus of this initiative is customer and community-driven, as well as ensuring alignment with

the three primary goals being equity, affordability, and simplicity, with equity as the overarching goal. Staff
is here tonight to discuss a proposed draft recommendation that responds to the robust community and
customer feedback that we have been able to garner throughout this undertaking.
This is a new and different approach, unlike previous fare study efforts. We leveraged partnership with
community-based organizations and focused on 21 safe harbor languages as well, and more so, we didn't
place an emphasis on revenue as a primary driver in the decision-making that has gotten us to this point.
I am extremely proud of the project team and our customers and community members alike who have
contributed in valuable feedback that has gotten us to this point this evening. And with that, I will yield the
virtual floor to the project team. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to provide those comments.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. This is Bill Sirois. Like the General Manager said,
I'm the Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, and with me tonight, we have Mr. Carl Green,
Director of Civil Rights, and Chris Quinn, who will be available to answer questions, Planning Project
Manager. So, Mr. Green, if you can share the screen? So the presentation tonight, like was stated by the
Chair, really is a high-level summary of the detailed information that is included in your packet, and
hopefully, if you haven't got a chance, you get a chance to read that information because it does provide
a lot of detail regarding the recommendations and really does provide some good background for those
who may have some questions. So if we go to the next slide.
So tonight, we plan to give you a little refresher talking about the timeline and some of the goals, as the
General Manager just outlined. We'll talk too about the latest round of engagement that we did in the fall,
and specifically, some of the key feedback that we heard during that time. And then we'll go over kind of
the proposed draft recommendations, really talking about the overall fare structure changes, talking about
some of the enhancements to our existing programs and new programs, and then talking about what
those impacts are to ridership and revenue, and finally, kind of how that we feel like they responded to the
goals that we've outlined. And then lastly, we will talk about next steps because we still have a few steps
left in this process and we'll go over those with you tonight. Next slide, please. Next slide.
So the three goals. As the General Manager outlined so appropriately, we focused on equity as kind of
being a primary goal, really focusing on those who are transit-reliant and financially burdened, and
making sure that what the changes that we propose address some of the concerns for those particular
customers. We've also heard a lot, even prior to the study, as the General Manager identified, about
affordability and simplicity in terms of really thinking about how our system is complicated and expensive
for a lot of people. So we're trying to address those as being two primary goals in addition to the equity
goal. Next slide, please.
Here, this slide identifies the time frame for the study process. As we've identified, we've just completed
our third round of outreach, and this round was focused on some conceptual alternatives that we
presented to our customers and community members and got some really good feedback through a
variety of different means, which Mr. Green we'll go over here and a second.
We're at the stage right now where we're presenting to you, taking that feedback and presenting to you a
refined draft recommendation for your consideration, then we'll take some of the feedback, and then
ultimately, end up in a process later this summer with a final recommendation for Board consideration.
And then ultimately, if the Board chooses to adopt that recommendation, then we would implement that
probably in the first quarter of next year. So next slide. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Carl
Green, who's going to go over kind of the feedback that we heard in our last round of engagement.

CARL GREEN: Thank you, Bill, and good evening, Board Chair, and fellow Board of Directors, as well as
our internal RTD teammates. I am equally as excited just hearing from the public comment on the first
portion of this Board meeting with Mr. Lewis, and Ms. McKinley, and Mr. Nicholson, and just to be able to
provide this update on the proposed draft recommendation.
And before I begin, I just want to, again, introduce myself. My name is Carl Green Jr., Civil Rights
Director, and I also serve as part of the project management team. And as Bill noted, this proposed draft
alternative was based on community and customer feedback, and that has been paramount throughout
each milestones of this fare study, so based off that feedback, we're excited to be presenting the
proposed fare alternative.
And as you will note on pages 4 through 5 of the Board report, and just to qualify the feedback, which has
been very customer-driven and community-focused, and as we think about historically underrepresented
communities, there is also a laser focus on those communities to ensure that we are not only including
but they are actively involved throughout this process to ensure that their feedback was garnered for this
proposed draft alternative.
And as you refer to pages 2 through 3 of the Board report, the project team has carried out a robust
public engagement plan throughout milestone 3. And just to give a few highlights, here, we distributed an
online survey, and we promoted that through our various media and social media channels. We
distributed it through our various non-profit and direct-service-provider organizations, as well as leveraged
our community partners and promoters to go door to door and to meet our customers at bus stations, or
bus stops, and rail stations, in order to really meet the moment as it relates to getting that customer
feedback. And that was part and parcel of what we wanted to achieve, and I feel that we definitely met the
moment.
Another area that I wanted to highlight is the customer and community meetings, again, the community
partners. This was the first of its kind at RTD, and something that I love to echo throughout each of these
updates is we leverage our multicultural outreach and engagement services to take a deeper dive through
their relationships and their rapport with the communities that we serve to allow them to connect with their
community part or with their community and their clients.
And additionally, I just wanted to emphasize the community-based survey. That was another opportunity
to lever community partnerships where we were working directly with 100 nonprofit organizations and
affordable housing units so they could then, in turn, meet with their constituents and members to get their
feedback, so we received responses through that. And then in addition, I just wanted to highlight the
stakeholder groups, specifically the feedback panels where we had the Equity Feedback Panel
representing a diverse cross-section of our community to our past programs and also our jurisdictions, so
I just wanted to emphasize that.
And then last piece that I wanted to also highlight is to Debra's earlier point regarding the 21 safe harbor
languages, although a majority of our information that was communicated outward was English and
Spanish, we leveraged our community-based organizations throughout the service district to be able to
either translate or provide interpretation to those 21 safe harbor languages to ensure that we get
feedback from whether it's immigrant refugees, and just other non-English speakers, and then coupled
with that, effective communications to ensure that people with disabilities have opportunities to be able to
provide their feedback.

Next, I will be getting into to the alternatives. As you can see at the very, very top table, it's the current
fare structure which includes local, regional, and airport categories with discounts offered for both day
and monthly. And then the bottom two really highlights the two alternatives. And as a background, how
these two alternatives were developed was specifically based off community and customer feedback to
include the Engagement Milestone 1, and Engagement Milestone 2, as well as assessing the financial
and operational feasibility, and specifically, what are the potential impacts on Title VI equity populations,
which is defined as BIPOC or minority populations, and low income at or below 150% of the federal
poverty level.
So as we can see with Alternative A, the intended purpose of this alternative was to lower fares for
customers overall while retaining local, regional, and airport fares, whereas Alternative B really simplifies
the fare structure by combining local and regional fares while maintaining an airport fare. And the
feedback that informed each alternative, again, was measured against the equity goals of equity
affordability and simplicity as indicated on pages 4 through 5 of the Board report.
And based off of the overwhelming amount of community feedback described previously, and as
demonstrated in the Board report, Alternative B was selected as the preferred alternative due to the
simplicity, lowering the regional fares, as well as the lower monthly pass. And one element or component
that I did want to highlight is the 3-Hour Pass. Just to give a little background, its intended purpose is a
single-trip fare product which allows customers to take the longest trip possible on a one-way trip, so I just
wanted to highlight that as far as background information on the 3-Hour Pass.
Next, I'll be moving into the Alternative B modifications. So again, based off community feedback, the
project team formulated a version of Alternative B, as well as to address respondents' feedback on what
they preferred out of Alternative A. And as shown on the table on the right, the modified version of
Alternative B would lower the local regional fare to $2.75, the day pass the $5.50, and the airport fare to
$10, while maintaining the simplified fare structure.
And as I noted, the modified Alternative B honors community feedback for the preferred alternative, but
retains the equity focus by lowering local fares, expanding access to the regional fare destinations, and
substantially reducing the monthly pass to $88, which is about a 23% to 56% reduction from the existing
$114 and $200 respective price points, which rewards ultimately, frequent customers. And I just wanted
to end with, before I pass it over to Bill, saying that this refined version benefits all and promotes equity
through increasing mobility and access for those who need the greatest financial assistance and/or are
most transit-reliant. So with that being said, I'll now pass it over to Bill.
BILL SIROIS: Thanks, Carl. We can advance a couple of slides. So again, highlighting a lot of what Carl
already said, the proposed draft recommendation includes a flattening of the fare, combining of the local
and regional fares into one fare, the $2.75 and $5.50, and then having an airport fare of $10. I think one
of the things that I think that I wanted to kind of echo what Carl said was that during the Engagement
Milestone 3, we did hear from some people that do represent kind of our low-income and minority groups,
that they like to see a lowering of the local fare because a lot of our ridership or the majority of our
ridership does use the local fare as part of their trips on RTD. So we were responding to that and felt that
we could do that, and, again, feel really good that we, again, very responsive to the feedback that we
have received.
On the other thing that I'll highlight on this slide is in terms of a simplification of the discounts. We're
allowing folks that do qualify for those discount programs, including our older adults, 65+, people with
disabilities, and Medicare, and customers that are enrolled in LiVE, to ride for basically, anywhere in the

district for a single fare. And so we think that is a great one simplification and making it much more
affordable for them and those that do qualify for those discount categories. Next slide, please
Also, particularly, focused on the airport, we did an extensive amount of outreach and discussion with
some of our airport constituents, really heard a lot of feedback, particularly, feedback from the employees
about making transit more affordable. And, again, one of the primary recommendations with this is with
the simplification of the fare structure, we are significantly lowering that monthly pass well over 50%,
which, again, we really do think addresses that concern that was expressed by the airport.
The other thing that we heard through our outreach process in this phase was the fact that those
occasional users actually thought that the $10.50 fare was reasonable. And so we feel like even lowering
it $0.50, we're still within that realm of reason that we've heard back from some of those people that do
use it on an occasional basis and think that it is a good value.
So again, if we go to the next slide, we can talk a little bit about the Access-a-Ride fares. And with this, as
we heard in some of the comments, again, we're reflecting kind of the approach that we used in 2019
where we're actually proposing to lower the Access-a-Ride fare commensurate with kind of how we're
lowering the base fare. And this responds to kind of some of the direction that we had in 2019 where
we're actually lowering it below that two times, which is allowed by the Federal Transit Administration, for
guidance for Access-a-Ride fares.
The other piece, as was referenced in one of the comments by Mr. Lewis, was the fact that we're
introducing the option for Access-a-Ride users who qualify for the LiVE, to take advantage of that
program. Again, in looking at that and how that impacts them, they have the ability to, again, to even a
lower fare, 50% off of the proposed Access-a-Ride fare from $4.50 to $2.25, and then on the airport side,
a $9.50 fare. So why don't we go to the next slide? And I think I'm turning it back over to you, Carl, to talk
about some of the changes to the existing programs and new programs.
CARL GREEN: Yes, thank you, Bill. So taking a deeper dive into the existing program's changes under
consideration, I wanted to highlight the LiVE program expansion, which essentially it's increasing the
threshold for LiVE eligibility. And essentially, a recurring theme that we heard is all improvements to the
LiVE programs should be a priority to increase access, and I feel that what we have here tonight definitely
meets the moment within that regard.
So as the first bullet denotes, is increasing the discount from 40% to 50% to align with other discounts,
again, to increase the income threshold from 185% to 250% of the federal poverty level. And I just wanted
to make note that with the potential to make this change a 250%, that would make RTD as far as leading
the pack when we assess different transit properties and their low-income fare programs, that this would
lead the pack as far as what other transit agencies are providing.
An additional point is due to the lack of awareness by community members, they expressed the need for
RTD to work with community partners to better market and educate and expand the LiVE program. So
working in concert with our Communications Department as well as with our community-based
organizations, that is something that is on the docket as far as what we look to do as far as expanding the
LiVE program, and it additionally, is to expand or explore expanding means testing beyond the current
system.
So what I mean by that, the means-based testing determines if customers are qualified for LiVE based on
a person's income, and currently, our means testing is currently only done by the state of Colorado PEAK

system which is used to determine the eligibility. So what we're looking at is exploring other avenues to
make eligible to be able to enroll in the program.
So the next is the current pass programs. And I just wanted to highlight here, so what we're looking to do
with regards to our EcoPass, and CollegePass, and NECO Pass, and just for background, as far as the
NECO Pass is the pass program purchased by neighborhoods, apartment buildings, government entities,
housing authorities, or HOAs for their residents, and then for the CollegePass, that's an annual collegesponsored pass program for students for a nominal cost included in their tuition and fees.
And then the EcoPass is an employer-sponsored pass program for enrolled employees. And under this
proposed recommended alternative, we're looking to make changes within these past programs to include
contracts. We'll have two-year utilize-based fixed pricing, contract minimums reduced to lower
participation barriers, no bulk customer, and then these pricings would occur in 2024.
And then specifically, as far as the proposal for the EcoPass, we're really looking to simplify the EcoPass
pricing matrix by reducing the number of service-level areas from 4 to 3 and combining the employersized categories thereby reducing the EcoPass pricing matrix from sixteen to three unique prices.
Additional programs under consideration is, again, the Zero Fare for Youth pilot program which is directed
towards ages 19 and below.
We have an existing Bulk Purchase Program, but we're looking at expanding this Bulk Purchase Program
by introducing a 10% discount for bulk passes and then establishing a purchase threshold of $1,500.
Some of these programs, I would say the latter two, we're still looking to firm up, and it'll require additional
coordination with partners, as well as external funding, but we're looking at establishing a Transit
Assistance Grant Program to meet the moment as it relates to immediate-need folks, so that could look
like, for example, immigrant and refugees.
So folks that are not readily accessible to enroll in the LiVE program, this Transit Assistance Program
would be able to provide fares for those immediate-need customers. And then lastly, is the Semester
Pass for community college, so this is a alternative to our current CollegePass program where it would
provide the opportunity for community colleges and technical schools being able to opt in to the Semester
Pass Program. With that being said, I'll pass it back over to Bill.
BILL SIROIS: Thanks, Carl. And just before I get into my stuff, just to highlight, I think, the Zero Fare for
Youth program that we proposed really does respond to a lot of the feedback that we heard. It really is, I
think, in the industry, something that a lot of agencies are looking at, and I think that we think it is really a
great program that really does have a lot of benefit, which I'm going to go over here in a second. But I do
think it's an opportunity for us to really get some of those young riders engaged and hopefully be lifelong
users of transit. So again, we're really excited about that recommendation. Next slide, please.
So what we wanted to do here was we wanted to discuss what are the potential ridership and revenue
impacts of the proposed fare structure draft that we've put in front of you tonight. So what this table shows
is, if we were to continue on as is, what ridership and revenue would be in 2024 as compared to what it
would be under the new proposed structure. So you can see there's a fairly significant jump in ridership.
Again, that's associated with people having easier access to our system. And then if you look on the
revenue side, obviously, there's a revenue impact, and so we do see a pretty significant jump in revenue.
But I think the good point here, and the caveat I'd like to make is you can see in the footnote to the table,
is the fact that we worked with CFO, Doug MacLeod, and his team last year during the midterm financial

planning process, and actually, reflected in that process a reduction in fare revenue associated with kind
of the early direction of this effort. So if you look at that, kind of the mid-term financial plan in 2024 has a
proposed fare revenue of about $79.3 million, which compares pretty favorably to the fare revenue that
we've got here.
Now, like I said, the ranges here reflect of whether or not we include or implement the Zero Fare for
Youth, so you can see that there is a pretty significant impact of that program. Again, we're excited about
it. There is a cost to that, and we are looking at ways to engage external stakeholders with the idea of
contributing that. That's a pretty standard practice across the industry.
Those that have implemented this type of program have typically got outside funding to support it, again,
so that is what we're proposing to do. We think that we in talking with the folks from Finance that we can
accommodate that at least for a year. But in terms of having dialogue with stakeholders and others to get
some external funds to support that, we think that that gives us a little bit more time. Next slide, please.
So to help starting to wrap up this, we wanted to talk to reflect back on the goals for the process and how
the proposed draft recommendation reflects on those goals. So as we've stated throughout this
presentation, equity has been a huge focus of this effort, and particularly, with how we've refined
Alternative B, we think we are responding and accommodating the goal that we've defined.
We are focused particularly on those financially-burdened customers in creating better access through a
lower local fare through an expanded LiVE program through the creation of a Transit Assistance Grant
Program, which, again, which really replaces a lot of the benefit that we used to have with our Nonprofit
Program which we eliminated in 2019, and we're really excited about that recommendation. And then
also, obviously, with the Zero Fare for Youth, that does benefit those equity populations.
Affordability, we are lowering fares for everyone. I mean, everyone is going to benefit from this
recommendation, so we do really feel like we are hitting that mark. And then lastly, simplicity. Probably
the one that we heard the most feedback on throughout this engagement process was making our fares
more easier to understand and more simple. And so I think we do really feel like this recommendation
does hit the mark. So let's go to the final slide. Next.
So our next steps. So starting tonight, we want to hear Board feedback on the proposed draft
recommendation. We'll kind of be accepting that feedback through the 1st of March. I believe the Board
Office will be or has sent a comment form to all Board members to provide their feedback to staff. We will
then review that feedback and then come back in April with a draft, again, another refined draft
recommendation that would be proposed to release to the public and have an extensive engagement
process in May. And then we would come back following that process, and, again, in addition to that, we
would have the draft equity analysis complete for April for you to understand and look at.
In July, we would come back with the final recommendation for Board consideration, and if the Board
chose to approve that final recommendation, we would look to implement that in the first quarter of next
year. So with that, we will open it up for questions for any of the Board members for anything that's either
in the PowerPoint or in the draft write-up that we provided as part of the Board materials.
CARL GREEN: And, Bill, if I may, I just wanted to make one slight correction. We still have our Nonprofit
Pass Program. We have about 200 agencies. We just eliminated the discount, so just wanted to put that
up there.

BILL SIROIS: Thank you for that correction.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you very much, Mr. Sirois, and Mr. Green, and everyone for the
presentation on really what has been a, as I said before, a monumental undertaking and a revolutionary
approach that I think accomplishes a great deal. Of course, it has to go through the rest of the vetting
process with the Board and with the public, but we begin that process with the Board, and we begin by
recognizing Director Guzman for your comments, please, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just want to make sure you can hear me. All right. In your packet of information,
maybe Mr. Green can speak to this, there was information collected by Spanish speakers, by minority
speakers, and by another listed group of people you interviewed. I'm sorry, while I flip through the packet
of information I was given. I was wondering why the Spanish speakers seemed to be out of line. There
were only 216 responses, I believe. And of the 216 responses from Spanish speakers, 65% went with
Proposal A versus Proposal B, and it seems to be completely out of line with everything else that was
given to you. Do you have any context for why that might be? I'll leave it there. Thank you.
CARL GREEN: Board Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir. Please proceed, Mr. Green.
CARL GREEN: Yes, thank you so much for the question, Director Guzman. If I heard you correctly when
you were looking at the Board report and comparing the results of the feedback and the difference
between what the overall in comparison to the English survey, is that correct? So in addition to the survey
that was completed in Spanish, and whether it's through the focus groups and things of that nature, the
feedback that we received, knowing that when we compared the overall feedback, the preference was for
Alternative B.
But based off of feedback, whether it's the results from the Spanish survey, the community-led focus
groups, we took that feedback to refine Alternative B to ensure that their responses of what they would
like to see in this draft proposal alternative to add elements or components where they would receive
benefit or what they wanted to see within this proposed draft.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Does that respond to your question then, Dr. Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It does. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Let us now then recognize to the next hand that's raised, and
that's Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you for this great presentation. It's a lot of really
exciting work happening and I know it's no small list, so thank you all. I'm looking forward to seeing what
continues to develop. On the EcoPass side of things, are we looking at sort of going away from the
insurance-based model? It sounded like we may be doing that, but that wasn't made crystal clear.
BILL SIROIS: Chair, may I?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Mr. Sirois, please proceed.

BILL SIROIS: Yes, Director Dishell, you know, again, with the EcoPass program and the way that it's
been established, and, again, it is basically part and parcel of an insurance-based model, so we're not
proposing-- one of the things that we are doing, because we did hear back from people that potentially
could use the EcoPass program, that it doesn't always work for them. So I think one of the things that
we're proposing to do is kind of bring back that Bulk Purchase Program, which really can be used by
those types of businesses that really the EcoPass doesn't make sense for them, and so that we think that
we're providing an alternative to, again, expand access to our system.
BOBBY DISHELL: So, no, but we're giving a different choice.
BILL SIROIS: Correct.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. As part of our outreach efforts, did we reach out to folks for both NECO Pass and
EcoPass who expressed interest, but ultimately, chose not to move forward?
BILL SIROIS: I'm not sure if we specifically got to any of those people. We could have gotten through
some of them in the online survey. We did have a Pass Program Feedback Panel which was basically
made up of people that manage EcoPass, and CollegePass programs, so we heard from them. And I
don't know, and I'll see if Carl or Chris have anything to add in terms of specific feedback from those
people who were considering but didn't actually implement, or in EcoPass.
I guess the one area that I think we did hear back from though, is the airport, which, again, there's been a
lot of discussion with the airport about an EcoPass for the entire airport. And again, we heard from them
about some of the barriers, and, again, we specifically responded to that by some of the proposed
changes to the airport fare,
CARL GREEN: And I would also offer up too, we have on another line our-- just wanted to offer up that
our Market Research Development Manager, I'm butchering the title, but specifically, I just wanted to call
out that our market development does have a robust outreach plan where they're working directly with
folks within the EcoPass program, so I did want to highlight that, yes, we do have contact with these folks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. So if I could add onto that, Director Dishell. Thank you very much.
So to the point that you're asking about the pass programs, we want to keep in mind that we did it to
understand some of the pain points holistically, and I believe Mr. Green addressed that issue, as I have
had conversations with a myriad of different people in this position. We looked at, say, for instance, the
airport, recognizing that is the largest employer in the state of Colorado, but also, has a lot of entry-level
workers that are making minimum wage.
So if we talk about the EcoPass program as we go in today, we're collectively looking at some past
program in a different manner because we don't want people to confuse what it is today with what it can
be tomorrow utilizing that insurance model. So I just wanted to provide some context around it because I
know oftentimes, we cling to what it is that we know, and I want to ensure that there is an understanding
because through our Market Research Group that's headed by Theresa Rinker, I know that we have
engaged and have been in contact as it relates to understanding what those pain points are for those
individuals, that it was all or nothing. So we've had different forms of input throughout the course of the
program and from the outset of the program as well.

BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And Mr. Quinn, did you want to augment that response?
CHRIS QUINN: Oh yes, thank you, only to add on to what General Manager Johnson noted is that as part
of our reaching out to try to find the pain points for non-EcoPass users, within the context of our past
program feedback panel, we did include representatives that were not currently using the EcoPass and
trying to get input from them to find out what exactly they didn't like, and what could be done to improve
that. And related to that, and this wasn't directly in response to your question, but it's very related,
similarly, we also included colleges that don't participate in the CollegePass for whatever reason, to try to
determine, here again, what their pain points might be, which was the reason for the introduction of the
Semester Pass.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. I'll submit the rest of the comments in the comment form that we
were just emailed.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so you will save-- save it for the end, as they say. Director Catlin, you are
recognized, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I just want to be clear that what we're advancing for consideration is
just the base program and not those other areas up for consideration.
BILL SIROIS: No, where we're at-- excuse me. I'm sorry, Chair. May I?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
BILL SIROIS: Sorry. No, what we're asking tonight is we're proposing, it's the full program to provide
comments for the Board to provide comments on. We're not proposing this as a final draft for kind of
public review at this point. Basically, this is for the Board to provide feedback on. We'll take that feedback
and then we'll provide more details that for the April action item to take out to the public.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was just confused about those items that were up for further consideration, notably, on
page 9 of our Board packet, and then slide 15 of your presentation, some of the proposed changes to the
LiVE program, and it seems to me those have not been thoroughly fleshed out, and I would probably
have some specific questions about those.
Currently, the state of Colorado PEAK program administers some of these for us, but were we to change
the income threshold from 185% to 250% of the federal poverty level, would that then be incumbent upon
us to administer that checking and the means testing program? And I'm just curious what that cost would
be, and I'm assuming that's what you're going to be looking at going forward for those items under
consideration.
BILL SIROIS: If I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: Yes, you know, actually, my understanding in talking with our Senior Manager of Revenue,
Monica Treipl-Harnke, that we would still be able to go through the PEAK system, we would just have to

define that testing, so we would still be able to use the PEAK system. I don't know the costs if there would
be additional costs associated with that, but we would still be able to use the PEAK system as a tool. But
we'll get more information on that from our Senior Manager.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, good. I just wanted to see those items for further consideration, like I said, probably
need to be fleshed out a little bit more. And then I noticed that slide 15 was slightly different than page 9
of our Board packet, and that one of the considerations for the LiVE program was expanding it outside of
the district, expanding eligibility outside of the district, and I guess I want to understand a little bit more
what that means, and we can talk about this offline. But in balance, I think the core proposal is really,
really well done. You guys have done a great job, so I applaud you on that. I just had some of those
specific questions about items to even consider further. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Catlin. And the line you were referring to is actually the possible
recommendation to eliminate the requirement for an in-district address, and that's something that I think
staff does need to address in much greater detail. This is just the first act. OK, Vice Chair Davidson, you
are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I appreciate it. I just wanted to throw-- I mean, first of all,
thank you to staff. This is an awesome effort. And I know Ms. Johnson, this has been near and dear to
you since you arrived here, so thank you for leading and shepherding this effort, and Mr. Sirois, and Mr.
Green, and everybody behind you, thank you for doing this. Great result.
I did want to highlight, and I do think there's a great opportunity that you already touched upon in the
presentation, but just would like to emphasize on packet page 33 is where it's noted that the assumption
for Zero Fare for Youth is that we identify additional funding partners beyond the initial first-year pilot.
Huge opportunity in that. I think we started talking last year about the need to diversify funding. I'd be
remiss if I didn't thank Mr. MacLeod and his entire team for helping stabilize the agency and allow for us
to have opportunities to be talking about Zero Fare for Youth, which I think will expand ridership in that
area based on the data, limited, but still, data that we have or assumptions we have about the elasticity of
demand.
I did just have one question related to those discussions with potential external entities, and perhaps this
is for Ms. Johnson. I know that this is a bit premature since the idea is to pursue a pilot program and we
first need to approve the structure and have a final proposal and appreciate this is the moment that we're
bringing forward comments, but to what extent have we engaged with potential partners that could be
long-term funding partners for us on Zero Fare for Youth, for example, be it the state legislature and
working with our lobbyists and Mr. Michael Davies, be it the public school systems, be it other potential
stakeholders and local partners? Just curious what's happened to date, what our thinking is of who we
might speak to if we move forward with this, but I'll leave it there, and whoever would like to answer that,
I'd be happy with. And, again, thank you very much for this awesome effort.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Sirois, maybe you want to lead off.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, I was going to say Mr. Chair, if I may.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very kindly, and thank you very much, Director Davidson, for the
conversation. I believe it'd be premature at this juncture recognizing the 12-step policy that there be any

conversations that ensue at the state level. But with that being said, there have been a myriad of
conversations that I have engaged in, and Mr. MacLeod was with me on some of these as we've had
discussions preliminarily with the Denver Public Schools recognizing that there's a clear-cut nexus in
reference to [INAUDIBLE] people, and is heard during the course of the presentation as we look at the
population, especially introducing them to transit early on, you could have a lifelong transit customer.
They could become a very good environmental citizen.
And as you think about the nexus as well with public funding, oftentimes, when you're looking at
communities, especially communities of color and other traditionally oppressed populations, there has not
been a real full-fledged investment in getting people to school. So when you have a household that has to
make a decision upon feeding someone or taking them to school, oftentimes, there's a lot of truancy and
things of the like. So if there are students in the seats, they will reap benefits as well from public funding,
and so we look at that as a clear-cut opportunity.
And I'm speaking from a place of having done this in different parts of the country where there's been a
partnership with the school districts as well. So I'm leaning on my past experience to leverage that as we
go forward for a vital opportunity, and, in turn, once we got to some discussions around that, I would
welcome further discussions with the Board collectively as we seek out any type of legislation and things
of the like. But this has mainly been preliminary, so I want to ensure that that's clear as I yield the floor, so
thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And, Mr. Sirois, did you want to supplement that?
BILL SIROIS: Yes, thank you, Chair. Just to add to the General Manager's comments, I would say that
Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, has been heavily involved in this effort and kind of is
up to speed, and we've been talking strategy about starting to engage those outside the agency. So
again, as we proceed forward and we get more definition, and, again, we will be really on it in terms of
starting those conversations with our stakeholders, and hopefully, in moving towards securing some of
those financial commitments for this program.
DOUG TISDALE: Vice Chair, any further comments from you, sir?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, no further comments, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much. And thank you for the
answers. Please leverage us as you see fit and as we can help in pursuing those partners and those
relationships. I think it's an exciting opportunity to provide a great service and diversify our revenue at the
same time. It's awesome. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Well said, thank you. Board Chair Guissinger, you are recognized now, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Bravo. This is really, really great, and thanks to
Ms. Johnson for bringing it in when she first came, and thanks to you and to Mr. Sirois, and Mr. Green,
and Mr. Quinn. I know you've all put in a lot of work, and all of the team, I know that you've been working
with Theresa Rinker and others. So as Jaime Lewis said, I was surprised, and I just think it's
transformative potentially for the agency.
And I had the opportunity, Debra Johnson, and Erik Davidson, and Michael Davies, and I, were in DC last
week with the mayors and commissioners from the Northwest corridor, and I'm hearing people all over in
the legislature, in the mayors and commissioners that are thrilled about this. And in the nonprofit

community, I think we've heard from some of them. But it's huge, and I really appreciate the work. I think
in terms of getting comments in the future, I'll also, as Director Davidson mentioned, please use us.
And this might be for you, Mr. Summers, to work with the team and come up with talking points. I know
we have to let people know that we still have to do the equity analysis, the Title VI analysis, but given
that, this is great news. And I think this is something that we all, as Directors, should be taking out to our
different groups, our city councils, our economic development groups, our nonprofits, and getting the
word out because I think this is going to be very popular.
The youth fare, I think is especially important among a lot of very important things, and I don't know if
you've gotten to this point. I know it's still a proposal, but I thought Chris Nicholson asked an interesting
question, which is have you looked at how we do that? Can we do it without making people qualify? Can
they use their ID? There would be a huge proportion that just will look young enough, but there's some at
the edge. Have you worked on that at all?
DOUG TISDALE: Who wants to essay an answer on that? Mr. Sirois?
BILL SIROIS: I'll start out and I'll see if Mr. Green or Mr. Quinn have anything to add. I do think that in
having some conversations in the round of our issue idea, we did propose some different options for how
we might implement that. And there are ways we can do it. I think there is a way where you're forcing
people to get an ID, a pass, which for specific to come in, which was not necessarily favorable to most
people.
I think most people were in favor of the system we have in place today, which is it's 19 and under, it's
age-based. You could propose something that people could show any kind of an ID like a school ID or
even a driver's license that shows their age, so it would be a simplified approach. Again, we need to do
some more refinement on that, but I think we did hear some initial feedback when we presented the idea
and the options, that the age-based approach was preferable.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right, yeah, I've heard that from other people too that it's obviously so critical to
getting people in the future to be riding transit, that that's a great program. And the Transit Assistance
program, is that similar to what we've done in the past with the discounts for nonprofits, or is that still
being developed?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Chair. It's still being developed, but the concept is is that we would have a
specified grant amount-- you know, just throw out, like $1,000,000 that we would make available for nonprofits with those people that serve people with immediate needs-- and like Mr. Green talked about, there
are different ways that we can look at that-- and how they would then apply for a grant for fare media, and
they would get maybe a grant for $10,000 of fare media to apply that they would get for free essentially,
with that grant program.
Now, there's different ways to approach that. We could look at it maybe there's a match to that so we
could leverage more money. We could look to ways that we could maybe get some money from
foundations or philanthropy that could help supplement that. There are different ways to look at it, but I
think the basis is it's a grant program that people could apply for to get free or deeply discounted fare
media.

LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. I think that the expansion of the LiVE program and looking at how
people qualify and those things is really good, but I also think that that fills a need that was left where
people weren't getting to the LiVE program and had immediate need, so I'm happy to hear that. And I
guess my last comment would be that I do think this is, as Ms. McKinley mentioned, and Director
Davidson, this is a great time for us to be thinking about who our partners are that will be happy to see
this youth fare and the changes in all our fares and for all of us to help move forward on those fronts.
Thanks so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Board Chair. Are there any other Directors, members of
the committee, or otherwise who have questions or comments that they would like to share at this time? If
so, please raise your virtual hand. Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Will there be any way to measure or project the savings of vehicle miles
traveled that the new lower fares would help achieve, and also, to that same point, measure savings as
far as ozone is concerned? If you are going to try to get other organizations to partner with you, I mean,
you've got to have some sizzle in the steak in order to attract them to become partners in this endeavor.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I think that's an excellent observation. Anyone from staff who would like to
chime in on Director Broom's comment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please, let's start with General Manager CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much. And I think this is an issue that we have been discussing as
we look forward to our Zero Fare For Better Air initiatives, recognizing that we do need to ensure that
there is a baseline by working in conjunction with DRCOG as well as with CDOT because as we talk
about mode shift and things of the like, we have to ensure that we have a global understanding from the
outset, and then we can use that as we go forward. So that's something that we'd like to pursue. And I will
yield the floor to Mr. Sirois because I don't know if conversations have ensued, but I know that's
something we've talked about as we go forward. Mr. Sirois?
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Yeah, just to expand on that. I think with some of
our modeling that we've done that we can certainly look at that in terms of the increased ridership and
what that means from a reduction-in-VMT standpoint. And similar to what we did with the Zero Fare for
Better Air project that we undertook this past summer, I think we could look at that as part of this effort as
well.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. I think it does help to, as you say, add the sizzle to the
steak, so that's important. Other Directors who would like to ask a question or make a comment at this
time. Dr. Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. This morning at the DRCOG Regional Committee we discussed the
potential growth for how our population will look like in Colorado going forward to 2050 with the largest
increase being members of the age group 65+ years who may need a bit more specialized services for
transportation need. I am curious what groups you're reaching out to in this study to tackle those

questions, and I know that Director, Director Kate-- I can't think of her last name, but she would be mad at
me if I did not ask this question.
IAN HARWICK: Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Director Williams would ask that question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Williams, there it is. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Nobody tell her that.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, thank you, Director Guzman, for channeling Kate Williams.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Kate told me to ask it.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, OK, Mr. Sirois, you look like you're ready to respond to that.
BILL SIROIS: Sure, thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'll start and I'll let Carl and Chris add. We did have
representatives of organizations representing older adults on our feedback panels. We did certainly have
a segment that responded to our online survey, and so we did do some specific targeted outreach to
those populations. And I don't know if, Carl, or, Chris, if you added any more specifics in terms of specific
outreach that we might done on that demographic.
DOUG TISDALE: Please, Mr. Green.
CARL GREEN: Yeah, I would just offer up in addition to what Mr. Sirois noted as far as our outreach
goes, yes, I'll definitely emphasize our equity feedback panel, specifically, when we wanted them to look
at our customer segments, we had two representatives that fit that demographic where we wanted to
collect that feedback. And in addition to that, I would also mention that our community partners, when
they were going door to door or frequenting bus stops and rail stations, where they specifically work with
older populations in order to get that feedback.
So I would just mention it in addition to what was on the slide deck as far as our overall outreach, we
worked in concert with staff to be able to, whether we attended the Denver Regional Mobility and Access
Council, APAC, ACPD, so making sure that we are hearing feedback from those communities as well as
other segments of our customer base.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Guzman, anything further on that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just want to say thank you for all of the work that you have done on this. This is
really great. That's all. Thank you so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, and let me point out that going to a fare of $1.35 to get to the airport if you happen
to be age-advantaged, is a phenomenal change in what we're doing. Director Harwick, you are
recognized, sir.
IAN HARWICK: I also want to second everyone else's comments about how amazing this program is, and
I really do believe that this is game-changing. Just something where I want to just have everybody
consider, definitely for the people that are high school students and students utilizing this program, I really

do think the easiest way that we can do this whether it's just a school ID or whatever, I think going that
route is fantastic, just kind of "keep it simple stupid."
But also, something to consider, just DPS students alone, there's almost 90,000 students that go to DPS,
13% of them have a disability. If we're able to capture those riders for the long term if we're not just
thinking about one year, and, yes, we'll lose some revenue right now, but if we can give them a great
transit-riding experience and we can build even a portion of these people into our long-term plans, it
fundamentally changes our ridership, and I think also just and it complements so many of the other
programs that are going on here. So I really applaud this. And while we may take a temporary hit, I think
in the long term, we will be reaping the benefits of these changes, and I really appreciate all the hard work
that's gone into this. And I'm very excited and look forward to going out and being a cheerleader for it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Harwick. Those are very well-taken comments. Any other Directors
who would like to chime in at this point relative to this proposal? Director Ruscha, your hand was up and
down. Are you in, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. I just couldn't resist. I wanted to actually just echo what
Director Harwick just said about building a base of future customers. I think most of us know that youth
who grow up riding public transit will become adults who ride transit and they'll also opt in. I also wanted
to add in the discussion regarding IDs and special discount cards, currently, we do not require a special
discount card for youth to get the 70% off. They have to either have a special discount card or a school or
government ID.
And so when we think about implementing this potential program of free fares, we want to keep it simple
not just to entice new riders, but also for the riders who are already used to that system. And I think we
should maybe not do ourselves a service if we change the rules on them. But overall, I think these
proposals are wonderful. I'm super excited and thank you so much to everyone who worked so hard. This
is really a labor of love and it shows. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any other comments from any other Directors at this time?
Well, I will conclude with one or two observations. First of all, I think goes without saying that the staff has
done a phenomenal job on this. General Manager CEO Johnson, thank you for your leadership. Thank
you, Mr. Sirois, Mr. Green, Mr. Quinn, for all the work you've done, and all of the people who have worked
with you. Thank you to all the people who have participated in this process.
And, Mr. Summers, your work is cut out for you, sir, because we need to get across a very important
point. Some people-- and we heard the comment during public comment-- some people will in the first
instance say big deal, they dropped fares by $0.25. This is not a $0.25 reduction in fare. This is an entire
series of dramatic changes relative to how we approach pricing for travel on our system. It is a suite of
changes. That's why I emphasize $1.35 for the age-advantaged to get out to the airport, compared to the
$5.75 it is now.
So there are a lot of things that are being proposed here. There's a lot more work to be done. But the
messaging needs to get out there that this dramatic suite of changes is in response to what we've heard
from our constituents, from our customers, and we are prepared to respond. And we will come back with
that as we hear again further in April relative to all of this, and I know we will all stay tuned for that. Let me
ask now then are there any other matters that the members of the committee wish to bring forward at this
time? Director Guzman, you are recognized, sir.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just want to take a moment to apologize to everybody for being late. It is not my
preference to do that. I did have a funeral that I was returning from and that was the cause of my tardy, so
I do apologize to everybody. I know your time is important, so thank you for your understanding.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. We wish your condolences on the loss. And we thank you for your
explanation. None was needed. Director Dishell, you are recognized.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Dr. Guzman. Thank you for joining us, and I hope it was a beautiful
celebration of life I do want to put a friendly reminder out there that Directors should have received an
enterprise risk assessment survey related to our audit. Please try to get that completed as quickly as
possible. Thank you. As of yesterday morning, five Directors have completed it. And, Director Tisdale, this
is not an admonishment that folks have not completed it yet, but just a friendly reminder to please get that
done this week so that we can move forward with that enterprise risk assessment. And if that all sounds
like gibberish, please feel free to reach out. Would be more than happy to talk about the Audit Committee,
the survey, and sort of how it plays into the rest of our scope. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the reminder, Director Dishell. And I will ask if we can have the Board
Office please, tomorrow, be sure to send out a reminder to all of the Directors so that everyone can timely
respond to that very important risk assessment. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I noticed this morning that the elevators at the Nine Mile Station are
still out of service, and I noticed that a month ago. I wonder if we could get a status report on when those
will be repaired. It's a safety issue as well as a convenience issue because snow and stuff can get on the
stairways and can be quite slippery, and these are big, long stairways that you have to navigate in order
to get to and from the trains. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I don't know if General Manager Johnson wishes to address
it this evening. I know that it will undoubtedly be discussed at the Operations and Safety Committee
tomorrow evening, but, GM Johnson, do you want to give us a preview?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the question, Director Broom. And,
yes, there was going to be an update by tomorrow. There's a myriad of things that have been going on,
and Mr. Stopplecamp has just come on. He went away. As he just provided me some information right
before this meeting. We will memorialize this in a written communique as well. But, Mr. Stopplecamp,
recognizing that you do have some detailed information relative to the assessment that was done with our
contractors I encourage you to share that at this time since there has been an inquiry. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, General Manager CEO. Any other matters
to be brought before the committee at this time by any Directors? General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, actually, Mr. Stopplecamp was going to give an update on what we just learned.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I couldn't hear all of that. I apologize. That was my infirmity, not yours. Mr.
Stopplecamp, always a pleasure to have you speak to us, sir. Weigh in.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: It's hard to follow that one, but thank you very much. So, Director Broom, you
are right that there are some challenges out there and that the elevators-- there are no ramps. We rely on
the elevators for the mobility-impaired and for those that don't want to try the stairs. Basically, what
happened, we believe the water line that fed the driver relief kiosk up on the station ruptured on that last

cold spell and leaked down into the elevator pits where it froze and flooded the pits. The equipment that
are in the elevator pits are not waterproof. They're not designed to operate in the water.
It took us a while to figure out exactly which line was leaking and we got it shut off. We've drained the pits.
We had Tony in there this morning. And we found out that there is significant damage to the elevator
mechanisms and controls, so they are putting together a list of material that needs to be replaced, and
they estimate five weeks after they get the material. So hopefully, in the next couple of days, we'll have an
idea of what it takes to get the material and the subcontractors in there. But as of right now, both
elevators are out, and that's courtesy of a waterline break.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much for the information.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the question, Director Broom. Any other matters to discuss from any
Directors, committee members, or otherwise? This is your opportunity. Going, going, gone. All right, then
ladies and gentlemen, please note that the next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled
for Tuesday, March 7. Please note that. That's three weeks from tonight.
This is a slight deviation from our standard meeting cadence, and that is so that Directors and staff can
attend the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington DC during the week of March 12, and so we have
moved this committee meeting forward one week to Tuesday, March 7. Seeing no other business before
the committee at this time, let the record reflect that this committee is adjourned as of 7:15 PM, Mountain
Standard Time. Thank you, and good evening, and a very Happy Valentine's Day to all.

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Stephen Cholvat
Monday, February 13, 2023 7:45 AM
RTD Board Office
Comments on upcoming date changes

Hi,
I saw the recent news about a proposed lower fare and wanted to share my thoughts. I just moved to Boulder 2 months
ago. When I moved I thought about selling my car and try to live on just public transit alone, but I was shocked by the
price of transit. I live in Boulder and work in Westminster, so to take a monthly pass would cost me $200 a month to
take the FF1, which is about equivalent if not more expensive than the cost of gas and car insurance. I ended up keeping
my car because that trade off just didnt make any sense. Lowering the prices to 88$ a month would mean I could bus to
work every day instead of driving. I am a huge transit advocate and much rather taking the bus to better the
environment, but with such a high price tag it didnt make sense.
Looking forward to the proposed new changes.
Thanks,
Stephen Cholvat

1

