1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, October 5, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 834 2528 9586#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#

Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Shelley Cook

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Longmont Transit Facility
• Contract Awards for Architectural and Engineering Services
C. Discussion Items
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - December 7, 2021
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Longmont Transit Facility

Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to grant the General Manager and CEO or her designee the authority to
negotiate and execute all documents and funding transfers necessary for the design, construction, and
maintenance of a new bus transfer facility and Park-n-Ride (Transit Facility) near the future terminus of
the B Line in the City of Longmont (City).
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Chessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development Manager
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
As part of the State Highway 119 Bus Rapid Transit project, RTD is working to develop redesigned bus
services between Boulder and Longmont (the City). In addition, as a part of the FasTracks Program, RTD
has plans to extend the existing B Line commuter rail into downtown Longmont. RTD and the City have
identified the 1st Avenue and Main Street location as the site of the Transit Facility to support bus and
eventual commuter rail services.
In 2011, the Board of Directors approved the reservation of $17 million in FasTracks funds for the costs
associated with the creation of the Transit Facility and related infrastructure. In June 2012, Longmont
City Council adopted the 1st and Main Transit and Revitalization Plan, which lays out the vision and plan
to implement a new transit station in Longmont, including potential for transit-oriented development
(TOD) opportunities. The City then engaged the services of a consultant to prepare a 1st and Main
Transit Oriented Development Strategies Report that evaluates the potential for TOD in the area,
provides conceptual plans for station design and corresponding preliminary costs, and recommends
alternative public financing strategies to implement the plan. A final version of this report was completed
in August 2017 with regular input from RTD Planning staff.
In a 2017 Memorandum of Understanding, RTD and the City jointly agreed that an infrastructure master
plan (IMP) would meet mutual goals of refining street, parking, and transit improvements and identifying
associated infrastructure costs in order to establish assumptions for completing the Transit Facility and
the related infrastructure (together, the Project). The IMP is substantially complete and is expected to be
finalized shortly. The IMP estimates the total cost of the Project at approximately $30 million, which
includes property acquisition, design, and construction of the Project.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Among other agreements, the Project will require one or more Intergovernmental Agreements), which are
expected to include the following information:
•
•
•
•
•

A reimbursement or payment process for eligible Project costs
A timeline for Project implementation
A Project design and construction approval process
Allocation of costs between the parties
Other necessary actions or responsibilities of the parties

In addition, RTD and the City will work together to draft an operations and maintenance (O&M)
agreement for the Project. The O&M agreement will detail each party’s responsibility for operating and
maintaining the transit improvements, public spaces, right-of-way, parking, and other improvements.
DISCUSSION
This action would give the General Manager and CEO or her designee the authority to negotiate and
execute all documents and funding transfers necessary for the design, construction, and maintenance of
a new Transit Facility near the future terminus of the B Line in the City.
The execution of any Project agreements would only be authorized if the following conditions are met:
1. The Project must meet RTD engineering requirements for safety, security and transit operations,
as determined by RTD.
2. The Project must include a minimum of 200 parking spaces for RTD users and a minimum of 10
bus gates, or such other number of gates acceptable to RTD.
3. The City will acquire all real property required for the Project.
4. The City is expected to fund acquisition and RTD is expected to fund Project design and
construction. At its sole discretion, RTD may fund a portion of the acquisition.
5. RTD will not allocate any funds to the Project beyond the $17 million reserved by the Board of
Directors in 2011 without further Board approval.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The funding for this Project, which the Board of Directors authorized in 2011, is captured in the FY2021
Amended Budget. As such, no additional funding is needed.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation (PPTX)

•

Letter From Longmont to RTD Sept. 20, 2021

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Chessy Brady, Manager, Transit-Oriented Development
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 5

Longmont Transit
Facility

Chessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development Manager
Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

1.B.1.a

Packet Pg. 6

Longmont Station Transit Facility Project
§ 2011: Board committed $17M to construct Park-n-Ride
Downtown
Longmont
119 BRT
Service

Main St

at B Line terminus
§ 2017: MOU between Longmont and RTD committed to
Infrastructure Master Plan (IMP)
§ 2021: IMP identified and priced concepts for
transportation facility and related development
§ Next Steps:
• 2021-2022: Complete agreements with Longmont
• 2022-2023: Refine design, build facility and
infrastructure
• 2025: 119 BRT, other bus services begin operation

1st Ave

(planned)

Transit Facility

2

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

1.B.1.a

IGAs Cover:
Second Ave

§ Implementation timeline
§ Design and construction

S Pratt Parkway

parties

§ Reimbursement or payment
process for eligible costs

§ Operations and Maintenance

Main St

§ Allocation of costs between

Coffman St

approval process

First Ave

§ Other necessary actions or
responsibilities

Boston Ave
St. Vrain Creek
Downtown Longmont Aerial. Source: Google Maps

3

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

1.B.1.a

Deal Points
1. RTD engineering requirements (safety,

security and transit operations)
2. Facility requirements: parking spaces (200)
and bus gates (10)
3. City role: acquire real property, manage
project, etc.
4. RTD role: fund design and construction
5. No allocation of RTD funds beyond $17M in
current budget
“Crops at Sunset” in Longmont, CO by Carol M. Highsmith, courtesy
of Library of Congress

4

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

1.B.1.a

Questions?
Attachment: Longmont Facility Rec. Action Presentation [Revision 1] (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

1.B.1.a

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Letter From Longmont to RTD Sept. 20, 2021 (4580 : Longmont Transit Facility)

1.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 11

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Contract Awards for Architectural and Engineering
Services

Committee Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
October 5, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to negotiate and execute all
necessary documents to award separate contracts to Short Elliott Hendrickson, Inc. and HDR
Engineering, Inc. for architectural and engineering services for a total value not to exceed $5 million for a
duration of three years, with two one-year options to be exercised at the agency’s sole discretion.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry J. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Mechanical, electrical, architectural, structural, roofing, civil, landscaping, design and engineering
services are being procured to supplement internal architectural and engineering capacity. Some
examples of the work that may be awarded under these contracts are roof repairs, fleet electrification
related infrastructure modifications, bus washes, pits, lifts, hoists, crane installations, air conditioning,
and boiler replacements. These projects are included and have been approved in the Mid-Term Financial
Plan.
The Brooks Act (Public Law 92-582) applies to this solicitation and requires that the acquisition of
architectural and engineering services be based on demonstrated competence, capability, and
qualifications at fair and reasonable prices, rather than solely on price competition.
DISCUSSION
A request for proposals was publicly advertised on August 12, 2021. Five proposals were received on
September 16, 2021. The technical evaluation committee met on September 27, 2021 for the purpose
of rating the proposals and determined that two proposers, Short Elliott Hendrickson, Inc. and HDR
Engineering, Inc., were the most qualified consultant teams. Leveraging two contracts will better support
future work needs.
A Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) goal of 20% was set for this contract. Both Short Elliott
Hendrickson, Inc. and HDR Engineering, Inc. have committed to 20% DBE participation.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact will not exceed $5 million.

Prepared by:
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer

Packet Pg. 12

1.B.2

Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 13

