2021-10-05
Planning, Capital Programs &
FasTracks Committee
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Getting close to five minutes. Everybody about ready?
Give it another minute here for folks to show up. There we go.
OK, I'll go ahead and call to order the Planning, Capital Programs, and Fast Tracks Committee. It's
currently 6.41 PM we had a previous committee meeting and all members were present so we can note
that for this meeting just in case these are posted separately for later reference. I'll go ahead and repeat
part of the introduction.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
minutes of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and
welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will
be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the transcript, will be at the bottom of
the page for the link to the Board of Directors page. So thank you very much.
We have two recommended items tonight for action. The first is the Longmont transit facility. And just to
kind of orient you, this is on page 14 of the packet. So I'll read the recommended action right quick, and
then we can proceed to a motion and staff presentation. So the recommended action is for the Board of
Directors to grant the General Manager and CEO or her designee the authority to negotiate and execute
all documents and funding transfers necessary for the design, construction, and maintenance of a new
bus transfer facility and Park and Ride, referred to as the transit facility, near the future terminus of the B
line in the city of Longmont. And that's going to-- we'll refer to them later as city for shorthand.
So first of all, do I have a motion to approve?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Rosenthal.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Buzek as the second. OK so before moving to discussion, we have staff
representative Chessy Brady with a presentation. So Ms. Brady I'll turn it over to you. Thank you.
CHESSY BRADY: --you can't. Now you can hear me. Hi, Chessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development
Manager in the Planning Department speaking about this, the Longmont transit facility project tonight. So
this project has been many, many years in the making. Back in 2011, this board committed $17 million to
construct a Park-n-Ride in downtown Longmont that would serve the B Line terminus as well as the 119
BRT. And that $17 million has been budgeted since then. In the ensuing years, several planning studies

took place that Longmont and RTD collaborated on. In 2017, we committed to a memorandum of
understanding with Longmont that started us down a path of an infrastructure master plan.
That IMP is now wrapping up and it's done its job of identifying the infrastructure needs to support this
facility. It's a complicated area with drainage from the St. Vrain, and new sewers, new upgrading electric a
lot goes into to upgrading this area and improving this the site for the facility. So now that we're
completing the IMP, the next step is to complete agreements with Longmont, which will include an IGA,
as well as other ingredients. Following that, we will work on design and construction, and then ultimately
119 BRT and other bus service can begin operation.
So what these agreements will cover will be how the project gets implemented, what the timeline is, how
long it takes, how approvals take place from between RTD and Longmont, who pays for what and when.
And then once the building is constructed, how we'll manage operations and maintenance for the different
segments of the building. And then anything else that comes up in the course of negotiations, as things
surely will.
The deal points that we're asking for your approval on tonight are the five shown on the slide here. First,
that all our RTD engineering requirements will be incorporated into the structure from safety, security, and
transit operations. Those are the bare minimum of what we'll need from this project. We'll also need
parking, 200 parking spaces and 10 bus gates. The city's role in the project will be to acquire the real
property, which is an important point. So RTD will not be participating in the acquisition of the property for
this project. And the city will also lead the project management, the contracting, et cetera.
RTD's role will be to fund the design and construction and to support those two efforts and offer approvals
in coordination with the city of Longmont. And then lastly, no allocation of RTD funds beyond the $17
million that has been budgeted since 2011 and is in the current budget will be allocated. And I should add
too, that $17 million have been depleted a little bit since 2011 as we've engaged in planning studies, the
IMP, et cetera. So it's currently stands at around $16.2 million.
But that's all I have for you tonight and happy to answer questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I'll open it up for questions from the Board members. Anybody have any questions
for Chessy Brady? Any discussion?
SPEAKER 1: I have a question. I'm trying to find my raise hand.
SHELLEY COOK: OK and I think Julien Bouquet beat you to it. May I call on him first?
KATE WILLIAMS: Sure, sure go.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Bouquet go ahead, please
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, thank you very much, and thank you Chessy for the great presentation. I guess I
had a couple of questions. First off, what occupies that proposed area?

CHESSY BRADY: Currently it's a few buildings and the site was decided on with the city of Longmont and
have moved around a bit, but there are a few retail establishments in the current location for the building.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, and I assume this would come down to the city of Longmont about relocation of
those establishments then? OK. So next question. So from the depletion from $17 million to $16.2 million
is the project still functional?
CHESSY BRADY: We believe that it is based on the estimates from the IMP, and that was part of the
point of completing the IMP was to get to a relatively firm understanding of what the project will cost. So
our commitment with Longmont is to complete the Project, And one of the things we'll be sure of in the
IGA is that there is money available to complete the project.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. And then I guess my big question would be, what would be the potential
relationship between the proposed transit facility and the B Line terminus? Is it going to be a feeding area
basically into the rail system? Is it going to be just an alternative? Could you just kind of explain or have if
I could have someone try to kind of explain the relationship between the transit facility and then the
proposed future B Line terminus.
CHESSY BRADY: The B Line is currently planned to terminate just the northwest of the transit facility. So
the Park-n-Ride would serve the B Line just as it would be the bus. Does that answer your question?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Somewhat. So I just am kind of curious if that's kind of feeding into the rail system
itself. Would that be acting as another form of transit for people to get to the rail basically?
CHESSY BRADY: Certainly the bus service that serves that transit facility would provide access to the
rail, and we would expect people to park in that Park-n-Ride walk a few hundred feet to the rail.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. And then so I would just be a little cautious with it feels like putting the cart
before the horse if the rail isn't guaranteed. You know that would just kind of be my main concern. From
my understanding, we know we haven't fully agreed on the B Line. We were studying the B Line but not
necessarily saying that there will be a B Line to that location. So that would just kind of be my comment
you. Feel free, it's not really a question but I think that's something we should as a Board have a
discussion that there isn't a guarantee that that terminus is going to be there. And that'll wrap up my
comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. OK, Director Williams please go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK I'll go but I did see Director Catlin and I think Director Dishell, but I can go because
it's relevant to the discussion you just had. Hi Chessy, good evening. I have been party to some
discussion from CDA about having a mobility hub not far from that area. Are we talking with them as part
of this plan?
CHESSY BRADY: As part of this plan immediate sense, no. But I think the mobility plans and CDA's
plans are moving ahead separately. But they're part of the plan. The General plan for Longmont is also

around Kaufman Street and extending Kaufman Street, bike lanes, et cetera. And that piece of it is
integrated with this facility.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm just, for anybody who doesn't know, my understanding and Chessy probably knows
more about it than I do, is that CDA is looking at putting a terminus of sorts at someplace between this
location and by I-25. And so I just want to make sure that we are not completely recreating the wheel and
that we are partnering with them. Thank you very much. Good evening.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And I'll go in order now. Director Catlin, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Chessy, I appreciate the presentation. And
on packet page 14, what really resonated with me was that the city of Longmont is committed through
their first and main transit and revitalization plan. They're committing to transit oriented development. And
we have long held and criticized the city of Longmont for not having the densities required to support
transit. So I know there's an issue, as Director Bouquet, cited which comes first, the chicken or the egg.
But if we really want to encourage transit oriented development and encourage the densities required to
support any type of future rail, but also a really robust BRT system, then I think this is an important first
step and a commitment that we've made to the citizens of Longmont.
And I just think it's really important to keep that commitment. That's all I said. It was that transit oriented
development commitment on behalf of the city plus their commitment to putting forth funds and
participating as a true partner, which I haven't seen as much of to date as some other communities like
Lone Tree. I think this is a really good first step. So I just wanted to make those comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate it. And also appreciate Director Bouquet's
comments. From what I understand, though, that B Line or no B Line, this transit facility would provide
sort of a robust bus stop and BRT hub, even should the B Line never be of issue. I want to focus, though,
on conditioning our approval. And for me, that's a proposed amendment. It's time-- conditioning our
approval on electrification. The cost of adding electrification is enormous once a project is already built.
And we need to be thinking about building for the future, building to last 30, 50 plus years that by the time
this building's built, there will be a number of electric vehicles on the road, should the various plans that
are outlined across our state be there.
And perhaps our fleet will be there too. And so the cost, the increased cost, there's a movement within the
buildings world called making a building electrification ready. And typically, what that means is that we'll
prewire the building so that it is set up for Level 2 plus EV chargers, that it is prewired for bus chargers
and things of that nature that while we may provide heat-- I don't know how much interior space there is
or not-- while we may provide heat with natural gas that we already provide through electric. And there
actually is a pretty substantial cost trade-off if we don't have to extend a gas line in order to provide that
heat service.

So with all of that, I move, and I'm not married to this language, whether we put it up top or whether we
put it as number 6 in the execution. But I've written this to be phrased so that it goes in a recommended
action, which is that after end parenth, city, semi-colon, provided, comma, however, that such contracts,
comma, as applicable, comma, shall ensure the transit facility is electrification ready, period. That is the
motion as it stands.
I am more than open to amending the language, whether we want to put it up there or down in B 6. But I
think there's a real opportunity to lead here. And I don't want a future board to be looking back and
saying, why-- how did we miss this-- we spent 17 million-- how did we miss this opportunity to be a leader
in building buildings that are ready for electrification and built for the future.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so first of all, we need to see if there's a second for the amendment to condition or
actually to add the conditions within the recommended action as described by Director Dishell for making
the facility electrification ready. Do we have a second on that motion to amend?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, second.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis has seconded it. Now, here's how I'd like to handle this. We had several
people who I believe were planning to talk about the main motion. But what we need to do right now is
take up the motion to amend before proceeding to the main motion. So I did write down the people who
had been in the queue prior to Director Dishell making his motion or starting to talk.
And so what I would ask is if you are planning to speak on this item, please leave your hand up but
otherwise, if you'd put your hand down, so we can have a discussion about the motion to amend only at
this point. So I'll give you a second to do that. OK, discussion of the motion to amend. Director Davidson-actually, I would like to ask right quick if our staff have any comments about what this takes or whatnot.
So Chessy Brady, you or Bill Van Meter or anybody who's on the line?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much for the opportunity. And thank you, Director Dishell, for
broaching this. One thing that I will share with everyone just collectively as we talk about electrification,
recognizing the important aspect here is reducing our carbon footprint, as I spoke earlier about our
strategic priority being of community value and sustaining planet Earth in that vein, when we talk about
electrification, recognizing we're at infancy level where it continues to evolve, there is a myriad of different
aspects as we talk about reducing our greenhouse gases.
We have to look at propulsion systems. Some of you may be aware that there is a near zero NOx engine
on the market that we can use with CNG as well as liquid natural gas vehicles that basically has almost
0.01 particulate. So as we talk about electrification, there's other means of which to reduce greenhouse
gases and our carbon footprint. There is hydrogen fuel cell.

There is battery electric at this point in time. But recognizing a couple of years ago, a lot of different transit
entities were using gasoline hybrid vehicles. So as we look to where we're going in the future to limit
ourselves to electrification, which could be something different than it is today, in three to four years, I
believe that we'd be cutting off our noses to spite our face as opposed to talking in generalities about
reducing our carbon footprint as opposed to specifying the propulsion system in which to do that.
So I'm speaking from a place whereby having some experience with this, as a couple of you know, and
I'm just, it's lessons learned going forward because you will have some advocates to talk about that near
zero NOx engine in comparison to electric. And also, there's aspects along the lines of what could happen
to actually reduce those emissions. So that's where I would like to offer up just information for all of you
because as we go forward, recognizing what could be, there's other aspects involved as we go forward.
Thank you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. So moving on to questions or discussion from Directors, Director
Davidson, you're shown first. Any questions or discussion about the motion to amend?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. And Miss Johnson, thanks for bringing up the other
sources of fuel. It's actually a good chance to highlight that Longmont has a pretty cool methane
reclamation program and has some city vehicles that are using reclaimed methane from their wastewater
treatment plant.
But anyway, putting that aside, one question that I did have for Miss Brady, and thank you for the
presentation-- has that been discussed with the City of Longmont? Recognizing that this project has been
postponed and faced a lot of mis-starts-- is tied to a number of things-- what would the impact be to the
City of Longmont to amending this in any way but I guess most specifically the electrification amendment
proposed by Director Dishell?
CHESSY BRADY: Electrification of the facility or preparing for electrification is not something that we
have discussed with Longmont. And it's not something that was reviewed in the infrastructure master
plan. So I do not know where they stand on it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you for the answer. I appreciate it. I'll just state for the record that I would
oppose the motion, not because-- I certainly support the spirit of it, of acknowledging our sustainability
efforts and moving in that direction. However, I do know that the City of Longmont has a number of
initiatives underway.
I would want to collaborate with them. And recognizing that we faced some delay here and haven't
discussed that with them, I would leave it to staff to judge as we proceed with the project how to honor
our values and strategic priorities. So thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: All right, thank you. Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I guess I would agree with Director Davidson and General
Manager Johnson in the comments that they've made. I guess my other question would be, what does
this add to the cost of the project?
What does it add to the cost of changing plans and things like that? My guess is we don't know. And
unless staff can tell me a number, I can't support the amendment without further information. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I too agree with the sentiment proposed in the
amendment and applaud its consideration if nothing else to frame the discussion that we are now having.
I would think that we could accomplish the same thing if we simply, rather than making it a part of the
recommended action, directed staff to consider and implement any appropriate measures in construction
to address environmentally friendly alternatives.
That would address, for example, the recommendation that methane, a project with which the City is
currently invested, be looked at as perhaps a part of this, that CNG, LNG, improved electric alternatives
and so forth, be considered rather than constraining staff, simply to direct staff to consider and implement
any appropriate measures in construction that address environmentally friendly alternatives. And I think
that would be a more efficacious way of achieving what Director Dishell has raised in the amendment,
which I will respectfully oppose. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Basically, what he said. I just think that we need to do some more planning. I think it's
great we are all hyper conscious of our responsibility as the public transit network to help with
greenhouse gases and to look toward the future and to provide environmentally friendly forms of
transportation. But I think we need to look at, as Director Tisdale said, the various ways to do it and the
cost. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And I've got Director Dishell. And I'm going to go to you next for a response. But I
did want to just check with staff to see, Chessy Brady or GM Johnson, would planning be able to take up
some of the measures that have been mentioned by both Director Dishell and Director Tisdale as we
move forward without providing a provision within the motion to move forward? Can you all look at that as
you do proceed through some of the final planning and the IGA?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would say we can assess it. Recognizing that we're having a discussion at this
juncture, I would be remiss in my capacity to promise you that this could be done collectively. But in all
earnest, we will explore that because I believe it's something that we collectively are committed to.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you much. Director Dishell, Director Broom has raised his hand. May I go to
him before returning to you?
BOBBY DISHELL: Absolutely.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Absolutely.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom, please go.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, sometimes it's just a matter of putting in some extra
conduit so that you can have installation of the future data things without tearing up parking lots, concrete,
and everything else. And if this could be done at a reasonable cost, you might suggest that to the City to
consider.
SHELLEY COOK: Mm-hm. And also, the exploration of some funding options. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. And thank you for the discussion. I certainly would be amenable
and friendly to Director Tisdale's proposed language. I think for me, as Director Broom raised, sometimes
it's a matter of just putting in extra conduit, which is why I went with electrification ready. And the cost to
re-tear up that concrete is monumental relative to the cost of putting in conduit.
The other piece I mentioned is whether or not it's for our busses, providing that level two chargers for our
customers is a value add and a big one. And it's also a possible revenue source. So to the extent,
Director Tisdale, not to put you on the spot, to the extent you are open to crafting the language sort of as
you proposed it, I am more than happy to withdraw my motion in lieu of yours.
I don't know if that's an amendment to the amendment. I don't know the most efficient way to do that. But
just wanted to note that that is fine by me. And I know that Director Tisdale's also a resident expert at
Robert's Rules.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, if I could just clarify, Director Tisdale, were you proposing substitute wording or
just indicating a sort of direction that would go along with the action that's not a part of the motion?
DOUG TISDALE: The latter, Madam Chair. I was actually suggesting that this Board can issue its
instruction, its direction, to staff to consider these items. And General Manager Johnson has already
indicated that that is exactly what staff will be doing, aware of the constraints that exist currently relative
to cost planning that has been done, that might need to be done, working with the city and so forth so that
rather than impacting the motion itself, we would issue a policy directive that staff would consider and
implement any appropriate measures in construction to address environmentally friendly alternatives,
taking into account all of the other factors and considerations that General Manager Johnson enumerated
earlier.

So it was not intended to be a substitute motion but rather an indication of a sense of policy. And I think
we could easily get, if nothing else, a head nod in that regard to proceed on that basis. But I think General
Manager Johnson has already kind of given us that head nod, I believe.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. OK, I have a new hand. Unless, Director Broom, do you still have a question or
comment here? Your hand is still up. OK, Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. And I'm not trying to pile too much on more. But it's probably going to be that
way. So if we're talking about electrification, and kind of what I brought up earlier sort of jokingly about the
bus stops on Colfax and the new ones that RTD is installing having solar panels on top, this is something
that we should also consider to install solar panels like at the 61st and Pena Station. I know it's not the
RTD property.
But next door there's an office building with sheltered parking with solar panels on top. And so that might
be a good way to generate energy. It'll be environmental friendly. So if we're going to add to this proposal,
then we should also consider allowing for solar panels shelters for vehicles. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Just to clarify, I don't think we're, in the sense that Director Tisdale
offered, I don't think we're actually adding to the proposal in the way that sounds more formal as you
describe it. But we have an indication from our staff, General Manager Johnson, that they will move
forward and look at these kinds of things as they proceed through the planning and construction phases.
And just to put a coda on the comments that Director Tisdale said recently in a couple of meetings-- the
one that comes to mind is the accountability committee-- we had discussed just such an amendment and
did make a motion. And of course, that change was made as the staff affirmed.
So I think that's a good way to proceed. But Director Dishell, the ball's in your court. Do you want us to go
ahead and take a vote on the motion? Or what's your pleasure there?
BOBBY DISHELL: May I tweak my language and then go to a vote?
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Why don't you repeat the language. And then we'll have the vote, OK?
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, so at the end of the close parens on city, striking the period, semi-colon,
provided, comma, however, that such contracts come as applicable, comma-- or actually, let me
rephrase-- semicolon, provided, comma, however, that the scope of work for such contracts, comma, as
applicable, comma, shall include an evaluation of environmentally friendly alternatives to the proposed
construction.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So let's go ahead with a vote. I'll go ahead and do a roll call vote. Director
Bouquet, what do you vote on the motion to amend as just stated by Director Dishell?
SHONTEL LEWIS:
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Go ahead, Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: It sounds like Director Dishell might have changed the language. And it's my
understanding as the person who made the motion that I would need to agree to move forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, I didn't realize that he had changed it. I thought he was still providing the same
wording. Is that not true, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: There was a slight tweak to the wording.
SHELLEY COOK: I think we have to go with the original wording. Or else you can withdraw that and then
go with the new wording. I don't think you can kind of change your motion midstream like that. I think we
have to do it more formally. So in terms of the original motion, we should go ahead with that first.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I want to make this as efficient as possible. So can I withdraw my motion and
then propose with the amended language?
SHELLEY COOK: OK, go ahead. And Director Lewis, do you agree to that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: So I withdraw my prior motion-- a new motion. I move to amend the recommended
action as follows. After the close parenth, the city, semi-colon, provided, comma, however, that the scope
of work under such contracts, comma, as applicable, comma, shall evaluate environmentally friendly
alternatives and options in consideration of the construction of the transit facility.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, do we have a second?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I can.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis. All right, Director Dishell, do you wish to describe the changes you've
made, sort of a new introduction of this motion, please?
BOBBY DISHELL: Sure, so instead of creating a condition on our approval, which the contracts would
have to satisfy, this instead requires that the contracts when construction is being considered evaluate
environmentally friendly alternatives in the vein that Director Tisdale had proposed as a Board directive,
recognizing that the reality is we don't have time to put a Board directive in place prior to this motion
passing or prior to this going through. We likely do not have that time. So it would be to put it in place for
this contract. And then the goal would be to work collaboratively to issue a Board policy for future
contracts. So I want to make sure that this contract is included.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I have a couple of hands up. Director Catlin, please?

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to understand from staff. It seems to me that
that's in keeping with what General Manager, CEO Johnson described. But I would like to hear from her if
that would be something that she and staff could support.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Catlin. This is something we can support, as I
referenced, just for clarity's sake.
And I appreciate you broaching this. With the adoption of the strategic plan, it's in alignment with what we
will do, and as I shared, that we will do it in earnest, recognizing we have to assess going forward. But on
the face of it, this is an alignment talking about overarching aspects from an environmental friendly
vantage point.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Buzek? Oh, Director Catlin, did you have anything else? I
should have asked you. Forgive me.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, ma'am. That answered my question. I believe it does align.
And I just wanted to make sure it was OK with staff. I believe that, personally, I don't think it's necessary.
But I would be in favor of it in principle just given that staff is supportive of it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. Thanks for that. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I'm just not clear on what the environmentally friendly alternatives
relate to as the language is proposed. I mean, triple glazed windows, grass roof? Or is it more in keeping
with environmentally friendly alternatives to providing alternative fuel sources to customers? But if you
just say it's environmentally friendly alternatives to the construction of the building, I'm confused by that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Dishell? Do you wish to respond?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Director Buzek, I don't want to insult your intelligence here. It's intentionally
broad. So the embodied carbon that exists in a new construction project is massive. So it is all
encompassing, whether that's triple pane windows, whether that's solar panels on the roof, whether that's,
are we able to use different types of concrete, whether that is recycled-- or what's the word I'm looking
for-- reclaimed materials-- whether it's evaluating all of those pieces, right?
It's not just the electrification, right, as I talked about electrification ready earlier, right? It's the entire
building. It's looking at how do we build an environmentally friendly building that's not just the service and
operations which it provides but also the building itself and trying to build a green building in and of itself
as we look forward because there are green alternatives that are different from the traditional contracting
practices. And so the intent is that those are considered and we evaluate those or the resident experts
evaluate those going forward.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Never mind. It doesn't help. I mean, you started out with electrification to, I believe,
provide alternative fuel source for our fleets or for customers. And now it's gone full circle to
environmentally friendly aspects to every single thing related to the project.
So I'm confused as to how this has changed so dramatically. So because of my confusion, I'll not support
it. But thanks for the attempt to clarify.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Rosenthal, please?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I mean, I appreciate where this is going with this
proposed amendment. I just wish we had seen it earlier. As you can tell from the discussion, there's some
confusion-- you know, what it's going to be.
And now, I'm not saying that we cannot have amendments during our Board meetings or during our
committee meetings. It's just given this and given the fact that we don't know how much any of this will
cost, it would have been good to have that information earlier. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam.
BOBBY DISHELL: I had a response quickly-SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure.
BOBBY DISHELL: --Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I think he was making a statement. But I'll give you a chance to respond at the end if
it's OK just so we'll move through these more expeditiously. But you'll have a chance to respond when we
get through. So Director Lewis, please go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll yield my time to Director Dishell.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to clarify. So the spirit of-- so when I heard
General Manager, CEO Johnson say, yes, this is in keeping with what we said before. Staff impact-- this
won't-- I guess let me say it very, very frankly. So and now, Director Dishell, I think this question will be to
you.
The spirit of this is to keep it within the confines of the $17 million. It's to honor the commitment but simply
formalize the request to staff that there is some kind of effort presumably, I don't know if this takes the
form of a report or what it would be, to look at environmentally sustainable construction, fuel alternatives,

et cetera. So this is largely just formalizing what CEO and General Manager Johnson said-- stays within
the 17 million. I'm not quite sure what the deliverable is. But maybe if you could just clarify the intended
outcome.
SHELLEY COOK: A direct question here. Go ahead, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Cook. Yes, Director Davidson, that is the intent, right? And staff is
welcome to come back and say, look, we looked at this. And we need 3 extra million. It's unique to me
that on a matter such as sustainability or environmental, which some Directors like to wax poetic, that
there's such pushback.
And yet we're so willing to give $8 million to an unformed plan where there's no clear deliverable. And I
just want the public to be aware of that. I want everyone else to understand that. But yes, the intent here
is to stay within the 17 million. And if staff evaluates and says, you know what, we're not going to be able
to stay within the 17 million, come back.
Ask for more. Let us evaluate it, right? State highway 119 could be a part of the BRT plan. It could be a
part of FasTracks. I think, and certainly from the feedback that we've gotten from the communities up
north that electrification and sustainable practices are really important to them.
And so that is absolutely the intent, which is to formalize the deliverable and place an affirmative
obligation to charge the CEO to direct staff to evaluate environmentally friendly alternatives, whether
those are in the construction itself or in the operation of the product, you know, chargers, et cetera, or its
a type of cement we use. But yeah, that is correct. It's to stay within that 17 million. And should they not
be able to, right, it's not unusual for us to have an agreement to amend and extend or amend an increase.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Davidson, you good? One more, and then I'd like to proceed to the vote.
Director Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. I was just going to say I think that we're over complicating it a little bit. I
think we're just kind of agreeing with this amendment that we would follow through with the best
environmental practices, which the staff seems to be on board.
I don't think we're asking for-- from my understanding, Director Dishell's amendment wouldn't be asking
for past the $17 million. So I think we're overthinking it a little bit. I think it's just kind of getting that formal
commitment that we want to be as environmentally sound, as environmentally thinking as possible. So
that's all I wanted to add on.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And well, we have one more hand. Please, let's proceed after this. Dr. Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm afraid we're just going to insult the City of Longmont. I'm
sure they have very strict standards that they try to build to in the City. And you know, we're just
speculating what their design is going to look like when it's totally done.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, Thank you. Any very quick last words, Director Dishell, before we move forward?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I just want to respond to Director Rosenthal. We received the advice of counsel
when I wanted to make substantive comments via email when I was going to be out that it was
inappropriate to use email as a function to provide substantive comments and substantive work via email
to other members of the Board. And so if counsel could either clarify that we need to move it separately.
But the sort of implication that this was done last minute or there was another way to do it, I truly thought
through it and was going on the advice of Counsel to not make such a substantive comment via email as
that was advised to be not in compliance, not advisable, as a Board member.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and Melanie Snyder has her hand up. Please, go ahead, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So two points-- one, I
just wanted to clarify, yes, Director Dishell, in order to be in compliance with Open Meetings Law, we
don't want Directors to be emailing and sharing their comments in email when that should be done in a
public meeting. It is OK for a Director, though, to send to staff proposed language for a motion that's
going to be offered in advance of the meeting.
And it will be offered in a public meeting so that's OK to do. And that's appropriate. I just would caution
the Board about commenting and putting your comments in emails about that motion in advance of the
meeting. It should all be done in the open meeting. And then the second thing I just want to clarify for the
record, the language of the second amended motion that Director Dishell made that I heard was
specifically talking about requiring that the statement work and in the contracts actually should include
specific language.
And that I think that's a little bit more restrictive than some of the comments about the spirit of kind of
guiding staff and providing some informal direction. So I just want to make sure we're all really clear about
what it is you're voting on. The language of the motion, it's more restrictive than that general guidance.
SHELLEY COOK: --than some of the discussion. OK, thank you. Let's go to the vote. And with that
clarification and some of the other comments, for what it's worth, my comment would be we had an
assurance from the staff. I think they understood the sense of the Board in terms of looking at possibilities
for electrification and otherwise.
And I would prefer that we not include it in the motion itself. So we're moving or we're voting on the
motion to amend. And I'm going to go around in order. Director Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. Now, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Pass.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm not sure we do. I'm not sure we pass.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, OK.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Yes or no?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm no. Let's see. We've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. The vote fails with 6 votes in favor and
9 votes opposed.
So thank you all. It was a good discussion. Now we're moving on to the main motion. And I would ask for
any discussion of the main motion. Director Broom, your hand still up?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I did have a question. How many bus routes are going to use
this facility upon the completion of its construction?
CHESSY BRADY: This is Chessy Brady. The BRT 119 in two directions or in multiple directions will use
this facility. I don't have a firm answer for you. And service may change, be adjusted, to provide to the
new facility. But I can follow up with that information.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Again, just briefly, and I really do appreciate the spirit
of where we were going with that. And I appreciate that final clarification we received. I know we didn't
have discussion after that clarification.
On the main motion here I just did want to bring up since the terminus of B came up, that as we've
already mentioned, this is an important bus station for the area that has been a core part of Longmont's
plans for transit oriented development and for development in that part of the city, which has been
growing and has changed quite a bit. And also, I wanted to touch upon something that Miss Brady alluded
to, which was the Coffman Project, which is to run bus up and down Coffman. And 8th and Coffman, that
Park and Ride that's currently north of where this station would be also not only includes our bus service
but as also a connection point of folks that are either coming in from outside the RTD, including using
Transfort to come south to Longmont and then transfer into the RTD system.
I regret that I don't come with a lot of data. Staff has provided some of that in the past but just wanted to
make sure that it was clear that this is a core bus project. It includes TOD. It's been linked with the City
and long plan for a project along Coffman that the City is largely financing, and then also that this includes
connections from folks that come from outside of the RTD. So I'll just leave my comments there. Thank
you.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you much. Director Broom, your hand is still up? I'm assuming-- yeah. And then
Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You have a demographic breakdown of the folks that would be serviced in this area,
specifically for race and income?
CHESSY BRADY: This is Chessy Brady. We have not looked at that for this project. I can certainly see.
I'd be interested to take a look myself.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would be interested in that data, if you might.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Anything else, Director Lewis? OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I had to think back to why I had my hand raised.
[CHUCKLING] It was a while ago. But I seem to recall Director Bouquet giving the impression that this
Board hasn't decided to build the B line. But the voters in 2004 decided that the B line will be built.
So it's a question of funding. Just like any of our unfinished FasTracks projects, they're all going to
happen when the funding becomes available. I don't know that we can even by Board action undo
legislation. But I just wanted to clarify that, that we don't have the power, I don't think, to say, no, we're not
building the B line. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis, your hand is still up. Do you have anything else? OK.
Director Buzek, yours also. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And so my understanding is this stems back a ways to 2011. And then
there was a study from 2017 that took a little over three years to conduct. So this has been in the works
for some time.
This is not new. This is something that's been contemplated, as I said, quite some time. So I think, I
guess I don't see a substantive argument to oppose it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I don't have the numbers. But I believe in response to Director Lewis's
question that the equity population, low income minority, in Longmont the City is somewhere around 30%
or maybe a little above that. And I wanted to reiterate something Director Davidson said because they've
done the studies. And it's also about 30% of the traffic coming down Highway 119 that is coming from
other places.
So this would be an important facility for taking a lot of cars off the road. And we are committed to the
BRT up there on Highway 119. It will be moving a lot of people. I think it's an important facility. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Just for clarification, Director Guissinger, my inquiry was not in opposition. So it didn't
need a response except from Miss Brady there around the actual data. And with that data point that you
provided, I would appreciate it if you'd cite your source.
LYNN GUISSINGER: As I said, I don't have the exact numbers. I think that's my recollection.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: All righty. Any other questions or items of discussion? OK, well, let's proceed to the
vote.
I haven't heard any in opposition. Are there any members who oppose the motion? Any members who
oppose the motion, please say your name.
OK, we'll call that passed unanimously. And thank you all very much for your patience in getting through
that. And again, it was a good discussion. And I think we've seen a good outcome in terms of taking up
some of the items that were raised as we go forward. So thanks to the staff too your flexibility in that.
So we have one more action item. I'm going to get to that. It is the contract awards for architectural and
engineering services. And let me read that item.
The recommended action is-- I find it easier to print it and read it from the page-- for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to negotiate and execute all necessary documents
to award separate contracts to Short Elliot Hendrickson, Inc., and HDR Engineering, Inc., for architectural
and engineering services for a total value not to exceed $5 million for a duration of three years with two
one-year options to be exercised at the agency's sole discretion. Do I have a motion for approval on that?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so move.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: Buzek and Williams. Thank you. OK, Henry Stopplecamp, do you have a presentation
or anything to add to the staff report?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No, Madam Chair. It basically speaks for itself. We're looking for two firms to
add additional extension of staff for projects that are in the budget or will be in the budget over the next
five years. This is a continuation. We've had A&E, architectural and engineering, contractors on board
with us over the last 20 plus years.
And so as we need specialized services, we issue a work order to the contractor based on the budget
from the various projects that they're working on. And then they provide the services that are needed to

help with the projects, move the projects forward. So real simple, put it out in the street. And we got two
strong contractors that we'd like to go forward with.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. All right, any questions or discussion from Board members? Being
none, we can proceed to a vote with no discussion, a voice vote also.
Is anybody opposed to this item? Please say your name. Anybody opposed?
All right, I declare that one passed unanimously as well. Thank you, all. And that's it for action. I'm sorry,
Henry. Thank you.
No discussion items tonight, and so we're on to other matters. Do any members have any other matters
to bring before the group? Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. I am hoping to work on sort of a report that Director Tisdale mentioned and
others that we could perhaps sort of issue that directive as we look at our capital projects and
sustainability in the future. Please feel free to email me if you would like to discuss it more substantively in
a smaller group.
And I do have one question for Council, point of clarification, if I may, which is that when we send an
amended motion, is the idea just to send the motion itself? Or can we send a explanation as well? I just
want to make sure that we're striking the balance, and I don't-- or sent through the Board Office, that
we're striking the appropriate balance when those types of messages go out.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair, if I may?
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, this is Melanie Snyder. So thank you for the question, Director Dishell. So yes,
please send your questions or your potential motions to amend to Board staff with a very short
description, not long, you know, a memo and backup information.
And let's just make sure that that all gets, of course, presented in open session. And that's not really an
invitation for the other Directors to respond or to weigh in or send emails with your various positions. That
should just be done in open session.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Dishell, do you mind if I follow up on that?
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE].
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead. [INAUDIBLE]. General Counsel Snyder, do you then plan to circulate the
wording suggested by the Director to the Board? Would the Board have access to that ahead of time?

MELANIE SNYDER: So Madam Chair, the way that's been working is those motions to amend go to
Board staff. And Board staff circulates it back to the Board and ensures that that gets included in the
record.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I'm all set. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: This is just a brief response to Director Dishell's comment. We have talked in the
past about a much more comprehensive sustainability policy. And it seems to me that if you want to get
action going, that would certainly be a good place to put your efforts. And I'd help you with that. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'd just to add to the discussion as I'm hearing from our General Counsel, I would
guess that that also means phone calls. And so oftentimes when Directors send amendments ahead of
time, our phones are flooded with phone calls from Directors. And so it sounds like that there is a
preference that that does not happen, that instead that all discussion is to be had during this meeting.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may?
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, so Director Lewis, certainly the Open Meetings Law allows local public bodies
like this to have discussions between two Directors. And that doesn't run afoul of the Open Meetings Law.
But you can imagine if there are multiple discussions that are being had and they're really not being had
in an open meeting, that really runs against the spirit of the law.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for that clarity. I do appreciate it.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
SHELLEY COOK: Anything else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing else.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, on that subject, so I guess this is directed to Miss Snyder, that if we-- so we
receive our packets on Thursday. And we have days, including weekends, to review what's there. And so
at that time if we had amendments or digressions or disagreements or whatever with the information that
we've been provided, we could respond prior to the meeting with the subject matter. And then bring that
to this open meeting. Did I say that correctly?

MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. So I want to make sure I'm understanding your question, Director
Williams. So I thought I heard two different things-- one was if you have questions or follow up about the
materials versus if you want to offer an amendment.
So questions and follow up, for example, to staff, that's appropriate to follow up with the General
Manager, follow up through Board staff to get that information in advance of the meeting. When it comes
to wanting to offer a motion to amend, I'm recommending and asking that you would send that language
to Board staff. And then Board staff would circulate it to the entire Board. And then that would be offered
in open session and discussed in open session.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I'm sorry, Madam Chair, can I?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: My understanding is that we have a form that requires three Directors to be involved to
submit it to modify and change things, right?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: And Chair, if I may?
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So Director Williams, that's a different process. So I was talking about if you wanted
to make a motion to amend a recommended action that's already on the agenda. There is a process
through the bylaws for a three Director initiated actions. And that's to bring a specific recommended
action. And so that's a separate process.
KATE WILLIAMS: And is there-- I'm just going down this rabbit hole. Sorry, Madam Chair. So that is
designed to have some consensus among some members of the Board to bring something forward.
Would we not want to have an amendment have a similar process so that multiple people-- so that we
don't just continue to meet with one person bringing an amendment, and the other 14 people are like,
whoa, what just happened, to allow us then to review what's going on in our own minds without talking to
anybody else and then come here and have a discussion about it? I'm just trying to walk this process.
MELANIE SNYDER: Sure. Madam Chair, if I may? So Robert's Rules doesn't require you to have three
Directors to bring a motion to amend, for example.
So one Director can do that. As long as you have a second, then we'd proceed as we did this evening. So
we wouldn't want to create a higher bar for that action than Robert's Rules requires.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thanks. I'm just walking it, walking it.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome. Happy to answer questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. Anybody else? OK, well, the next meeting day is December 7,
2021. And I would at that point then entertain a motion to adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second, Director Lewis.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Lewis. OK, anybody opposed?
KATE WILLIAMS: I want to stay here longer. I'm not ready to leave.
SHELLEY COOK: [CHUCKLING] OK. So we'll go ahead and adjourn the meeting. It is 7:44 PM. Thank
you all very much. Have a great night.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Good night.
SHELLEY COOK: Good night, Paul.
DOUG TISDALE: Good night.

