2023-03-16
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are we ready to go? Thanks. The Thursday, March 16 Executive Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 4:00 PM. I respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to
please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. I will now call the roll. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here. Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan. Are you there? I think you're there, Marjorie, but you might have
been muted. [LAUGHS] OK.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here. Yeah, sometimes my spacebar works, and sometimes it doesn't.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I know, I get it. Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am here, Guissinger. Other Directors in attendance, I see Director Tisdale
and Director Williams. Great. Welcome. Staff in attendance, we have Debra Johnson, and Jillian KnappRhodes, Marie Snell, Tai-Shrae Parish, and Melanie Snyder, and Brandy Hunter. And with us today is
Jonathan Bartsch, who is our facilitator again this year for our retreat.
First, I'd like to open public comment to anyone who'd like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current or immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press 9 on your phone. Staff
will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind by participating in this process, you're being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. Comments can be sent to the Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Do we have anyone in line to speak today?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there are no speakers in the queue and there are no emails.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. All right. With no participants in the queue, we'll close the public
comment period at this time. We have one discussion item today. Thanks, everyone, for making
yourselves available for this regular Executive Committee meeting. Jonathan may be able to join us
again, but we wanted to give him some time. He got hired with like a two-week window, or maybe a little
less, and has been doing a great job calling people. And so I'd like to open the discussion regarding the
upcoming Board retreat. I think, Jonathan, you've been able to talk to most people, maybe not quite
everyone yet. And I think you have a draft agenda for us?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah, I do. Good afternoon. And it's a pleasure to be with you and talk with most
of you already. Doug, we'll connect another time. And, Debra, I think on Monday, we have time to talk.

And there are a couple of other Board members that I think all of whom may have been in D.C. as well
that I've yet to talk to, but I'll run those down before the retreat. I'd like to just summarize a little bit about
some of the things that I've heard-LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: --and how they inform the agenda development. One is that there is discussion
around practical takeaways from this Board retreat. One of the things that I've heard from a number of
Board members is that there's a desire to particularly have more action items, takeaways than there was
necessarily last year.
One of the things that has been recommended a couple of times is, what are the goals and policy goals
for the Board in the next 12 months? What's the full list of that? So Board members can talk about all of
those. And then an effort in this retreat to maybe prioritize what those top, say, five goals, priorities, the
common across there.
So we'll do two things. One to build understanding amongst Board members that haven't met with each
other certainly in person very much, or are new to the Board, as well as for everyone to kind of help to
inform each other about the policy goals, aspirations, if you will. And then we do some sort of prioritization
of those later with the assumption that that would be helpful in terms of providing that direction to Debra
and to the staff associated with that. So that's one thing that I've heard and incorporated it into the
agenda.
The second thing is about, as I just said, which is opportunities to build relationships to understand each
other. I've heard the sense is fun, light, relationship-building, but can't be cheesy. So we're still working on
the specifics around cheese, and I get that, which is that you want to build a working relationship amongst
the Board members and find time to do that, so that's also a part of this.
Similar to last year's Board retreat and some of the comments about so, what are the expectations from
communication in terms of respect and clarity and listening related to board-to-board relationships? How
do you pay attention to that? Generally speaking, what I've heard is that those are going quite well. Some
exceptions or some sort of issues that have been more challenging than the others, many of which I think
you know about.
But sort of strengthening those board-to-board relationships and communication approach, and also then
the issues related to how the Board staff relationship in terms of, how do you ask for information,
communicate your needs as Board members, do so with each other and in respectful ways, and then also
in terms of recognize staff time constraints and other types of things related to Board and that Board-staff
relationships, as well as similar to last year in terms of the-- how is that going in terms of-- it's the
perennial word, organizational Board policy and operations and what that line is. And so kind of just
reviewing that discussion again.
And then sort of the other piece was about really spending some time with, as I said before, about kind of
refining some of those prior priorities as have a work plan or action item to kind of work through there.
That's a lot of words. And I'm happy to share a screen of a really draft agenda with this group recognizing
that I'm still sort of playing with this, with the interviews, and really want to kind of make sure that people's
voices are heard in terms of the agenda and you see it as a good use of time. So maybe I'll just stop
there, Lynn, and see that-- I am happy to share the draft agenda, but to see if there's comments or

questions about my summary of what I've heard so far and where I see the general direction of the retreat
going. You're muted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, sorry. Thanks, Jonathan, that sounds great. Any comments or questions on
what Jonathan has shared so far before we take a look at the draft agenda, very rough draft agenda, as
he said?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Erik?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks. Can you hear me OK?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. I just was wondering, Jonathan, and thanks for the conversation with me. I
know there's a lot of differing ideas. There's 15 people. I just was wondering, you kind of gave some of
the common themes. Were there any surprising outliers or anything that you only heard from one or two
members that may be worth noting that perhaps the rest of us didn't think about? Just curious if anything
stuck out in the opposite of what you just shared, things that didn't align?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah. Yeah, and I think that there's work to do in terms of bringing on new Board
members. It's a tough job, you all know that. Many of you have been on the Board for a long period of
time. I think one of the areas and themes that I had talked about or had heard was for newer Board
members, how is it that they can get up to speed, that they can make a positive influence and impact
associated with the Board of Directors, how to engage, quite frankly, with this broader group, the
Executive Committee and others? And I think that's one of the themes or one of the thoughts that have
come out of this. And how best to incorporate-- and there's always transitions on Board. So folks are
coming on, folks going off. And just sort of paying attention to that I think might actually bear some fruit
associated with moving forward, a productive conversation related to that.
So I would say, Erik, that's one of the areas that I would say is-- and with that, a broader theme of
communication, which is that, how do you, as Board members, that don't necessarily need to agree, and
obviously you do quite a bit, but how do you talk about where you have differences in constructive ways
that are not personal, they're policy, and it allows you to kind of build trust and mutual respect? And the
other thing that I heard is that the Zoom boxes, just like here, it's a challenge. It's a challenge to build
relationship.
And so that's, again, that other theme of that. And there's new folks on the Board. There's new, different
ways of thinking about things in that regard. So that would be kind of what I would say is an area for
potential for working on. It's not quite a disconnect, although some might say that. I think it's more about,
how do you pay attention to the onboarding? I know there's a formal onboarding, but sort of how do you
bring folks on so that they feel like they can find their best place to make a difference at RTD? I think that
that's the way I would frame it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, great. Thank you for sharing that. It makes sense given that we only have a few
new members that you wouldn't have heard that from everybody, and I think that's very helpful feedback.
So thank you for answering that open-ended question. Thank you, Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, no, it's a good question and very good feedback. Anybody else have
anything right now? I would just say that I really like the focus on the practical takeaways. I think we had
good conversations last year, but I think if we can kind of focus a work plan on-- and have a chance to
talk in small groups, or however put it together, about our policy goals for this year and our priorities that
that's a great thing. And the other topics I think make a lot of sense.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah. I guess it'd be helpful from this group to understand that if we are going to
have Board members come with their sense about really where they want to spend the next 12 months,
take 12 months, for an example, in terms of their policy goals, how do we prepare them in advance for
that? I certainly will clarify that in the-- we can clarify the questions in the agenda.
But it's useful for them to be kind of thinking about that, that we want to hear them all, and we also want to
get to somewhere-- like, where is the real overlap? Where is the energy associated with that? Because
that policy direction I think would be useful. And then you, as others have said, can track that. So what do
you think would work best in terms of getting your fellow Board members in the right mindset to come
prepare to talk about that? Any thoughts on that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anybody? I guess I have a couple. One is, I think the ZEB Committee is meeting
next week, and we may be coming up with a suggested policy that we could send out in advance. And
maybe we just-- I don't know if there's specific topics you're hearing. I'm guessing maybe TABOR code of
conduct. Maybe we can kind of prime the pump in an email before people come. Do you have some
suggestions on that, Jonathan?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Those were my categories of top issues, TABOR and the lack of the, or the
losing of the exemption, TABOR exemption, the code of conduct, the ZEB Bus piece. There's a couple of
others maybe around sort of role and orientation. But, yeah, I'd be happy to then maybe list out e.g. in an
email that you conferred on or however you want to communicate with the rest of the Board. We can just
call those out as examples for them to be thinking about.
I'm actually thinking about it more than that there might be a sort of a broader sense of them. And one of
my intents, or one of my thoughts associated with the retreat is to ensure that things that are important to
the Board, that they've been thinking about and talking about, that we get up on a list together, that we
look at the comprehensive part of it, that you understand each other's mindsets and motivations
associated with those goals. And then, of course, then what we do is we sort of ensure them that there is
a narrowing of those as well so that it kind of is more manageable in terms of what are the things that in
general that the Board of Directors is going to focus on in the next 12 months and hold each other
accountable to.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Any other comments? Let's take a look at your agenda, if we could.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah. Hopefully it's going to match. The other piece that I wanted to make sure
that we sent out was-- it was really helpful for me to read the summary from the Board meeting from last
year, for the Board retreat last year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, good.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: And so some things have changed, and others are-- and I think that'd be another
useful piece of homework for the Board of Directors to review at least before the retreat. So those would
be sort of the two pieces. I'll share my screen. Can everyone see that?

LYNN GUISSINGER: I see it.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: OK. So we're at the Denver History Museum on Saturday the 25th. We start
thought 7:30. 8:15, breakfast to about 3 o'clock. The purpose, broadly speaking, improving the director's
interests, motivations, sort of vision for RTD, identify specific ways to improve efficiency around roles,
parameters, communication, collaboration among the Board and with senior staff, and then identify both
policy goals and priorities for the '23, '24, for the next 12 months is kind of my vision.
So we start off with breakfast, and I haven't worked with Board staff around the details around any of that.
Then we get started with the actual meeting around 8:15. I would summarize some of the themes that I've
heard in a sort of more concise but sort of informed way, that we would do a bit of a warm-up, non-cheesy
exercise as we go. Then, we would jump right into it.
Key policy goals and aspirations for the next year, maybe a piece about this. This may be a little bit of a
holdover from last year, which is, what do you think that other Board members don't understand about
your district, and how does it inform your policy goals in that sense? So this is that big list that we talked
about. Take a break. We spend about an hour talking about the Board roles and parameters, the role in
policy-making, ensuring that you use staff time, ensure staff time constraints are recognized, considered,
boundaries of policy, governance, operations. Where on this kind of piece amongst Board members
and/or with Board and staff do you need to focus on, pay attention to improving further?
We would then have lunch, come back after lunch with, OK, here are these broad policy goals and
priorities. We'll have had a chance to organize them a little bit, group them, and then we'll do a
prioritization study. Now, the priorities don't mean that the issues are not important that don't get
prioritized, but it's just that there's a common overlap and an area of focus. And my thinking was that it's
going to be about five-- I would like to see five sort of pieces, but maybe that's too much, maybe that's too
narrow.
We would sort of have that list along with-- and not go too far in terms of, OK, so what are the specific
next steps? Because I've kind of built in 45 minutes at the end to do this after a little bit about, how is it
that you all communicate, collaborate? One of the things that seemed of interest last year was this idea
about moving away from the either/or kind of discussions to a both/and. How do we do both things? The
skill set of sort bringing together seemingly contradictory things that-- and I think as Board members, it's
potentially a useful skill to play around with in the context of, OK, how did we do on these policy goals and
perspectives? So we'll kind of build off of the earlier, the conversations at the beginning and in the
morning and throughout the day.
And then we'll spend a good chunk of time, Erik and others about, what are the specific action items?
Who's responsible? What are some of the measures of success? How will we know that we've made
some progress associated with that? Then, we wrap up at 3:00.
So that was sort of the idea there. And I'm hoping-- I guess the intent of this meeting is to get your
feedback about what-- does it sound about right? Is there things that you would want to emphasize, deemphasize? And, Lynn, I see Peggy's hand up, but it's not my meeting. Sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. Sorry, I have no voice. I really liked, Lynn, you emphasizing the let's kind of
temper some of our aspirational goals with the practical reality of executing them. So I think in that
second to last agenda item, where we talk about these goals, we really need to look at, OK, some of
these are really aspirational. What can we really achieve maybe short-term, mid-term, and long-term to

achieve some of those aspirational goals? And I'm looking probably like the vehicle electrification and
some other things, but I just think we need to have that part of the discussion. Thanks.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah, I think that's a good-- that's sort of the idea of the priorities over the next
12 months and the overlay of what's practical and also not to lose sight of some of the more aspirational
parts. I do think that one of the ground rules that I was thinking about, which is We're not going to address
the code of conduct issues at the retreat. We're not going to, does that bus sort of issue in that piece?
But what we want to do is try to understand the importance of and around those particular issues but
recognize that those are decisions that will be made, I believe, in the Executive Committee and others.
And so I don't know quite what that line is in terms of that, but I know that that's important not to try to go
too far on any one issue necessarily in the retreat, and more about having setting that up so You're still
muted, Lynn. Lynn, you're muted.
DOUG TISDALE: On mute, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. Can you go down on the retreat agenda so we can see kind of the morning?
There were a lot of questions there.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: There are probably too many questions. That's why this is really drafty is
because I think there's too many questions there. So I just started typing. And I think you probably need
to have three questions here. And the goal that I have is to incorporate your feedback, and I'm happy to
distribute this out, and then get this out to the Board of Directors as a draft agenda tomorrow to the extent
that that's possible to do so that they have-LYNN GUISSINGER: That would be great.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: --they have a week, along with the-- I can attach the meeting notes from last
year, as well as the-- there was one other topic here-- oh, the request for their policy to be thinking about
their policy goals.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, should we prime that at all with some of the policy goals you've been hearing?
The other one, I didn't mention that you said-- that I mentioned before, and you said you were hearing
where the Board coming up with-- people coming up with an individualized plan and getting support from
the staff, which they're always happy to do with talking points to get people out to their local communities
and city councils is another specific topic. And maybe we don't want to talk specific topics. We just want
to let them come up. Do we want to suggest some of what you've heard just to move things forward? It
seems like maybe that would make sense.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: I agree with that, and I think that's a good one, sort of just general approaches
and understandings regarding outreach to districts and support necessary associated with that. So that
would be one of the policy goals, e.g. TABOR could conduct the buses in individual sort of outreach and
efforts. Those kinds of things, we want to put on the table. Those are things I heard. And I think it's useful
for everybody on the Board to hear it from each other. I see Erik and then Marjorie's hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Erik, go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Lynn. Thanks, Jonathan. Yeah, this is a great starting point. Thank you for
putting this together so quickly. I think one question I have on the 10:30 to 11:30, and you mentioned this
is a draft, so there are a lot of questions, but there's a lot in there, and there's a lot of potential for this one

to run away. I was wondering if you might scroll down a little bit with what the objective of this session
was and wondered if you-- yeah, OK, great. Thank you-- and wondered if you wouldn't mind talking
through just how do you see approaching that in a structured way where we kind of get some meaningful
takeaways?
I mean, in my mind, there's some big ones in there. There's how we engage with staff and make sure
there's a respectful relationship back and forth there. There's the topic of Board's role. Anyway, just
wondering because there's a lot in this and for an hour with an important objective at the end. How do you
foresee structuring this? Is it trimming it down? Is it particular structured question? This seems, to me, to
be one of the ones that's going to have to be the most well-structured to get through it in an hour. What
are your thoughts on this?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah, you're right. I mean, one of the things I want to do is narrow it, narrow the
number of questions. And part of my thinking was I'll just put all the questions that I thought might fit
under there. I forget the saying, "sorry I didn't have time to write you a shorter letter," but if-ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, right.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: But if I had to narrow and sculpt those down and particularly your input, but my
thought here in terms of-- was, one, using small groups, Board members that sort of don't typically
necessarily engage with each other, having some discussion around these in a kind of a report back
fashion with probably, like I said, probably just three questions. And I beg your input associated, which
ones that you think would be the most important on that.
But, honestly, Erik, I haven't necessarily thought that one through in terms of-- mostly what I was trying to
capture was content in taking interviews and putting this in at this moment. And I'm going to put, from this
point forward, some real thoughts once we kind of get-- we're in the ballpark, which is the mechanism
about how to implement it. But I agree with you that this is an important topic. It's a runaway topic in terms
of time frame potential, and sort of ensuring that this objective, if you agree with that, is being able to
accomplish-- I need to put a little bit more time into that. And any advice you have is welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks for commenting on that. I mean, that's great. Narrowing it down and
having the report back function I think could take us a ways. And there's probably a way to-- yeah, I can
appreciate the challenge here. Narrowing down, I think, would benefit. And I think when you send this out
to us, I'll be happy to give some thought to that and send out if I have any useful thoughts to contribute to
that. But the report back and the time constraint being known at the beginning and having a narrow scope
of questions I think are helpful, so thanks.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah, thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Marjorie?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: I can't hear you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, still muted.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: I can tell some of your emotion regardless of if I can hear your voice.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [LAUGHS]

SPEAKER: Yeah, still nothing.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Sorry, we still can't hear you, Marjorie.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to try to get out and come back in, Marjorie, or something? Yeah, OK.
We'll go on to Doug.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Lynn. I appreciate that, Madam Chair. One thing that I note in
this session, which I-- the 10:30 to 11:30 slot is what caught my eye, and it's obviously an incredibly
important time for us. And I like the objective that you pose at the end of that, because I think you
articulated that very clearly in terms of what we want to do.
And that's why when I look at something about, how do we ensure staff time constraints are
recognized/considered, to me, that's more part of the management function of the Board of itself and not
really as much a retreat topic. And if you're retooling these questions, I would consider that to be one that
you might look at.
We did, actually, FYI, and I don't know if anybody forwarded to you, but I think it was in 2019-- it might
have been in 2018-- we actually adopted a policy that expressly addressed Board interaction with staff,
particularly the Board Office staff, and requests for information and producing things and so forth that we
limited the amount of time that a Board member could reasonably expect staff to devote to their individual
questions that were raised for any particular reason. Because at the time, we had one Board member
who was constantly issuing, in effect, FOIA requests that just really burdened staff. So we do have that
policy outstanding.
And I think the other stuff that you have here is really significant. I mean, the point is, let's clarify so that-and particularly for the new Board members, but even for those of us who've been around longer,
understanding our role in policy-making and clarifying the boundaries and areas of overlap between
management and policy is critical. So I appreciate the work you put into this. As I said, I raise that one
question as perhaps-- and it's my thought alone. I don't know if others join in that, but we might consider
excising that because it's actually addressed in a policy. Thank you. Maybe I've stalled long enough for
Marjorie to get back in. I don't know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you get-- can you speak now?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I hope so. I was speaking only to myself before. Yeah, I appreciate this draft. And
the idea of sending out the notes from the last retreat will be really helpful. But also, in preparation, I
suggest asking the Board members to review the strategic plan so that we don't come up with policies
that are contrary to it and where they fit in the strategic plan so that we are in alignment with work that
has been done in the past.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good suggestion.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: That's a great question and suggestion, and maybe it's a criteria or criterion for
priorities is sort of that it's-- that there is an alignment with the strategic plan. I think that's an assumption,
and a good one. I'll stop sharing now just so I can see you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a couple of comments there.

JONATHAN BARTSCH: OK. Keep sharing?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It doesn't matter. You could. But the same thing jumped out to me that jumped out
to Doug Tisdale, but I thought about it differently is that that's maybe part of the communication
discussion that we're having. It's really kind of separate from the policy versus operations. And-JONATHAN BARTSCH: I like it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So it may be that it blends in with some of that. And this, I can certainly be voted
down on. It's kind of ministerial. But I think that people getting there for breakfast is kind of important. We
got 45 minutes there. Starting at 7:30 is tough. My preference would be to make it 8:00 to 8:30.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: OK, sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do others agree? I see one thumbs up from Doug and Marjorie. OK.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: I'm not a morning person, anyhow, so this is going to be brutal, but that is great
news.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, getting down there at 7:30. And I think the tendency is to say, well, I'll show
up at 8:10. But we do have new people. We haven't been meeting together, even with people who've
been on for a couple of years. It's a new thing, so let's start it a little later. Thanks. All right, Marjorie?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, this is sort of similar to your issue. Last retreat, we were confined by COVID
seating where we were at separate tables, and there was never a feeling that we were all together. What
should our expectations be about seating this year? Can there be a true round table?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's a good question.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah, that was one of the more interesting meetings with everybody at their
individual thoughts, basically. And I think that's right. And clarifying the expectation of that, obviously, I
think-- well, maybe it's not so obvious, but from my perspective, having a more interactive setup in terms
of room arrangement would be preferential, but I respect kind of how you all want to have that done.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I tend to agree. Anybody else, we set up sort of a circle? Or, is that kind of
what you would suggest, Jonathan?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Yeah, or pod, like sort of pods with Board members. We had some ideas. My
colleague Patrick Teese, who's not with us right now, and I had some ideas about maybe there's mixing
up Board members who may represent different districts, or different kinds of ways in which people can
interact with each other. That would be my hope was-- and again, we'll put some more thoughts to that.
But if there's some flexibility there around the room arrangement and how we sit and engage, then, as I
said, that would be what we would prefer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Peggy.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Peggy, you can't be moving around very much, though, can you?
PEGGY CATLIN: I feel really bad because I am-- after my last doctor's appointment, I'm restricted. I can't
come down. But I really would-- if I were able to be there, I would applaud that approach for more

engagement among members. And I just, I really am sad that I'm not going to be able to participate in that
fashion, but I will participate via Zoom.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We've had a rough, rough winter, rough few weeks, yeah.
MARJORIE SLOAN: We're sad too.
PEGGY CATLIN: I want a do-over on 2023.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, no kidding. Hopefully it'll get better. And I like what you said, Jonathan,
about, I mean, maybe it's mixing up the seating some during the day and the groups and all that. I think it
makes a lot of sense. All right, any other comments?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Well, this sounds like really good input, and I'll incorporate it. What I have for
distribution sometime tomorrow is the draft agenda, the notes from the 2022 retreat, a strategic plan and
asking the Board around thinking about their policy goals seated with just some examples, e.g. ZEB
buses, or code of conduct, or those kind of things, just to get them thinking about what that might be. And
so I'll draft that email and I'll forward that on to you, Lynn. How is that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, send it to me and to the Board Office as well if you have that, or I can give
you that email. Well, Tai-Shrae, why don't you tell him the email just to make sure he's got it handy, if you
would, please?
JONATHAN BARTSCH: I have it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You got it? Word Office? OK.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: What about the-- Doug, you talked about the 2019 Board staff communication
policy, I believe, is what you called it. Is that worth distributing? I might suggest not-- well, I don't know.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I mean, I don't know-- yeah, my thought would be we don't want to necessarily
shine a spotlight on that and give a sense that we're trying to somehow intimidate or forestall interaction
with staff. But should the occasion arise in the future where we find that there is a burden on staff, then
we could politely advise the Director involved relative to the existence of that policy and provide a copy.
So, yeah, I'm not out for trying to say, now, listen, folks, don't you-- that's not my goal at all.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: I understand that. Would you mind at least just sending it to me? I guess I can
find it. I just want to make sure that I've-DOUG TISDALE: Well, and I think, and to go back to Tai-Shrae and get Tai-Shrae's engagement on this,
I think she might more easily be able to find that policy and forward it to you. I know I have it somewhere,
but my filing system is purely by date, not by subject, so I'd have to search back through 2018 and 2019
to find it. Because I know it's something that Barbara and I worked on during my terms as Chair.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Cool. Well, I'll get it. Thanks for that. We won't send it out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick question. And I see Debra and Melanie both here. Any comments,
thoughts? I know you're going to talk with Jonathan on Monday, Debra.

DEBRA JOHNSON: No, just listening to the discussion. Hi, Jonathan. Good afternoon, everyone. No, I
don't have anything to add at this time.
Great Great. Thanks. Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: I don't have anything to add. I was just going to say I think that the resolution
Director Tisdale was talking about, there was one in 2019 that had to do with Board operating guidelines,
but then there were also resolutions in-- 1986 and 1996 were the ones that have to do with the amount of
staff time-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, gosh.
MELANIE SNYDER: --[INAUDIBLE] referenced in the 2019 guidelines, but those are the ones, the
documents I'm familiar with.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: So it's not a new discussion, then? [LAUGHS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: No. OK-JONATHAN BARTSCH: Well, I really look forward to this meeting. I think it's going to be productive. I'm
glad we're generally on the right track. Make some changes, get that information out. And then we have
next Thursday as well at the same time. Is that right? 3:00.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's our regular Executive Committee meeting. So we can talk and see
what you've heard back if we need to have you back in, which probably makes sense. That'd be great.
Thanks.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: Sure. OK. Thanks, everyone.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Are there other matters to discuss? All right.
JONATHAN BARTSCH: [INAUDIBLE] sign off.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thanks, Jonathan. I'll entertain a motion to adjourn.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
SPEAKER: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We are adjourned. Thanks for coming together. I think this was a helpful meeting.
And we have another crack at it. I think it's good that Jonathan's getting something out hopefully
tomorrow, so people have some time to digest, think about, react. And I will see you next Thursday at-that one's at 3:00. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you so much. Thanks for doing that. Thanks, team.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bye.

SPEAKER: --very much.

