2021-08-10
Special Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening. I will now call to order the Tuesday, August 10th Special
RTD Board meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining
us this evening.
Please note that the official meeting of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest
of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recording. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com. And
a livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Colleagues being elected as members of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the values we can all agree upon.
As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by the Board and to act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website.
Thank you. Please note that we will not be taking public commentary during this meeting.
Members of the public interested in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the
monthly board meeting. For future meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal located at
rtd1qm2.com. Ms. McManus would you please call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek? Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis? Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have 12 present, 3 absent. Director Dishell, Director Buzek, and Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And RTD safety is paramount and I'd like to begin this meeting
with a short safety briefing. While the recent public health orders have relaxed requirements for the use of
face coverings in certain settings, we don't want you to let your guard down. As a reminder, the Transit
Security Administration known as the TSA has extended the federal mask requirement for public
transportation until September 13, 2021.

The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a face covering while waiting for and
while riding public transportation to include airports and aircraft, train stations and trains, bus stops and
buses. This evening, ladies and gentlemen, we have one recommended action on the agenda and that is
for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2021 through 2026 strategic plan developed in concert with the
Board of Directors, General Manager and CEO, and the members of the executive leadership team. Do I
have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Williams, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movement of Director Williams and a second-- a movement of
Director Tisdale, pardon me, and a second of Director Williams. Is there any discussion on this motion?
Hearing none.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Looks like Director Sloan. My apologies.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE I'm sorry. Go ahead, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I actually have a proposed amendment about
this 2021 and '22 plan. It is an impressive document with RTD's pledge to roadmap of agency priorities
and measurable success outcomes. My only concern is the omission of a specific recognition of RTD's
commitment to sustainable policies and practices.
My proposal is a minor change in wording, but it acknowledges a major focus for RTD's operations and
service. As demonstrated by the evidence all around us, we are in a time of a global challenge and transit
has an impact on regional sustainability in four areas; air quality, transportation, greenhouse gas
emissions, electric vehicles, and public health. I really appreciate the GM CEO Debra Johnson for
working with me on this issue and helping craft the language and of course, I appreciate the Board's
patience with this last minute request.
So I move for, again, a minor amendment to page seven of the strategic plan, which is on packet page 11
under community values strategic priority. And I would ask for a change in the paragraph that's there to
read, "RTD strives to be a strong community partner providing value to customers as well as to the
broader Denver metro region while sustaining planet Earth." So that is my proposed amendment and I
appreciate the Board's considering.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I'd like to acknowledge that Director Lewis has added the meeting for the
record.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Do I have a second to the amendment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger. So I have a movement as Director Sloan and the
second is First Vice Chair Guissinger. Is there any discussion?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, Director Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: I just would like to have the Amendment read again. I had a glitch in my sound and I
don't know that I heard all of the words and it's just adding some language at the end under the left hand
column strategic priority community value, adding some words at the end. Could you just read the words
to be added at the end?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sure.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

MARJORIE SLOAN: Just four words. "While sustaining planet Earth."
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think this is a great addition. We're obviously in terrible air pollution
times, certainly not all caused by traffic and transportation but the ozone part is. And I know that from all
our previous conversations that our new CEO Debra Johnson has been heavily involved in this sort of
action and I appreciate Director Sloan and Ms. Johnson bringing this forward. I support it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Sloan, can you just send that language in an email
to me quickly so that I can see it in written form please?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sure. Or I will add it to the chat. How's that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: If you are able to, sure.

MARJORIE SLOAN: You're right. We don't have-- never mind. I'll e-mail you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is that the end of your questions? OK. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I actually have my hand up for after this motion is voted on. But I will say for the
reasons that have been suggested already, I think we're just affirming what we know the agency to be
doing and what we stand for. So I support this wording. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. I don't see anyone else in the queue, so I am going to call for
the vote on the amendment on the proposed changes for page 7 on community values and strategic
priorities. I have a movement of Director Sloan and a second of Director-- I believe its Director
Guissinger? Did I get that right? Yes. Is there any no votes on this?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just want to make sure before we vote Director Lewis got a chance to receive that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't have it yet and so I will abstain from this vote because I don't know what I'm
voting on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, ma'am.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Bouquet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I did send it, Shontel. Hang on. Maybe by the time I get to the L's, you'll have it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Then Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. If I may, Madam Chair. I'm trying to find which page we're talking about. Are
we talking about page 6-- on page 7 of the strategic plan? Are we talking about page 7 of the packet?
Which one?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: It is page 7 of the strategic plan and page 11 of the packet.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, Director Sloan. So where are you suggesting putting that language again? My
apologies.
MARJORIE SLOAN: The very end of the strategic priority concerning community value.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, I see.
MARJORIE SLOAN: The last four words would be added, "while sustaining planet Earth."
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you very much for that clarification. I see where you're putting that.
On page 7 there's strategic plan under community value. So if Directors have that pulled up on their
computer, they can see where it goes. All right. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, did you get the email? Not yet, huh? I wonder if I
can send it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I mean, out of context I have no problem with sustaining planet Earth. I think that's a
good thing and so I'm happy for us to move forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. I'm going to go ahead and do the roll call then. This will be
in favor of the change to page 7 and page 11 of the packet under community values strategic priorities
and it will be to add the verbiage that "RTD strives to be a strong community partner providing value to
customers as well as to the broader Denver metro region while sustaining planet Earth." With that in
mind, I have-- Dr. Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm sorry, Madam Chair. I don't want to be a stick in the mud. I just want to make
sure that Director Lewis is able to vote for this because as she indicated, she is in support of the concept
but I want to make sure that she has that opportunity and I want to make-- if I could just continue the
discussion for another 10 seconds. Director Lewis, are you comfortable at this time voting for it or voting
against it or what have you? I just want to make sure that you don't have to abstain if you don't want to.
Because-- go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I'm OK with you moving forward. I appreciate that, Director Rosenthal. and
Director Lewis, I just sent it to you as well. I just got yours and I'm reading through it as quickly as I can.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. All right, I'm going to go through. So this is the vote,
everybody. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis? Ope, you're muted.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. So it is 12 to with 3 absences-- or 2? Wait a minute, that's
wrong. 13 in favor, so 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 13 in favor with 2 absences being Director Buzek and Director Dishell.
So that amendment to this piece has been adopted. Thank you. With that in mind, I would like to turn this
over to our General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson for her presentation. Madam General Manager,
please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Perhaps Madam Chair, as a point of order, so we just voted on this Amendment.
Then do we need to vote on the entire plan?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're right. We did do the strategic plan. We did have a motion from
Director Tisdale and his second film Director Williams. What I'd like to do is go ahead and do the vote on
the strategic plan.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: As amended?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: As amended, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, can I just clarify something that I talked with CEO GM Johnson ahead of
time about? OK, so just on a smaller note, on page 5, the numbers you may note, are from 2020 and the
ridership in service miles have been affected by the pandemic. And in discussing that with Ms. Johnson,
she had said what we might do is put an asterisk to indicate for people looking that that data is reflective
of 2020 and of course, we all know that was adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and I just
wanted to verify that-- thank you, first of all-- and verify that you're fine with adding that before you finalize
this publication.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair and to Director Cook's statement, yes, I
am fine with that. Those numbers came from the 2021 facts and figures and that is reflective of all of our
data that we provide to the National Transit Database and that can easily be done relative to putting an
asterisk there saying what those numbers are reflective of. So that can be done prior to the publication
contingent upon the presentation this evening and your overarching support of the plan going forward. I
am amenable to that. Thank you very kindly.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. That's all, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Ms. McManus, I saw your hand up.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Sorry, I've had a problem unmuting. I had my hand up because I thought that
staff had a presentation on this and we went right to the vote. So I just wanted to at least give General
Manager Johnson an opportunity to speak if that is not moving forward as part of the protocol.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would like to ask the General Manager to go ahead and do her
presentation. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair and thank you very much Ms. McManus. I was
wondering about that as well. So if I can have Jillian bring up the presentation for me, I'd greatly
appreciate that. So good evening once again Madam Chair and members of the Board and to all that are
virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, RTD's General Manager and CEO.
This presentation I will deliver this evening is by far the most significant in my 274 day tenure, as it will
pave the path for the agency for the next five years. The undertaking has been one of collaboration,
earnest dialogue, open mindedness, forward thinking, and a commitment to continuous improvement
here by the Board, me, my team, as well as staff, and I thank you all. Next slide, please.
The presentation that I will provide will include how the proposed 2021-2026 strategic plan came to be.
First we will start with some background and provide context. Secondly the engagement process that
ensues with the Board, the leadership team, and staff. Then an overview of the plan itself and rounded
out, how we will collectively bring this plan to life. Now for background and contextual information.
On October 1 of 2020, following the Board's selection of me as the agency's new General Manager and
CEO but prior to my official start date of November 9th, I sent to the Board my initial vision and transition
plan, which is captured on the slide before you. Included were meetings with stakeholders, employees,
and customers that allowed me to assess internal and external entities and issues, as well as engaging
with the Board of Directors. Simply put, I listened and I learned and I gained an understanding of what it is
I did not know about RTD, such as its culture, business processes, and inner workings based upon those
stakeholders opinions, attitudes, and perceptions. This enabled me to identify organizational priorities.
In one of the first meetings as the General Manager and CEO during the November 19, 2020 GMOC
meeting, I presented my initial 120 day plan in which I described steps to create an organizational
alignment regarding strategic priorities such as those identified on page 7 of the strategic plan document
and performance metrics such as those listed beginning on page 19 of the plan. During my engaging
communities to bridge gaps activities, I learned through the hundreds of meetings, one-on-ones, and
listening sessions, as well as the myriad of documents I have read during my short tenure, this agency
has done some great things and has been recognized as an industry leader.
Coupled with these accolades, RTD has had its fair share of challenges and has long been criticized for
not having clearly defined organizational strategies, priorities, and processes. To be frank, I agree with
some of the criticisms. There are long standing gaps that need to be bridged. We have collectively

developed a plan to do just that, such as a clear and effective process to assess the General Manager
and CEO's performance.
The strategic plan will bridge that gap. Enhance financial transparency and improve reporting metrics.
The strategic plan will bridge that gap. Ensure that the internal audit function is included in the strategic
planning process and have a strategy that aligns with the goals and expectations of the organizational
leadership. The strategic plan will bridge that gap. So the question before you is, what else does this
strategic plan accomplish?
First it provides clear, measurable, and prioritized outcomes that RTD is focused to deliver for the
community and its customers. Secondly, it provides an action driven business plan with milestones,
budgets, and internal owners to produce that outcome. And thirdly, it provides a transparent performance
store card that I, along with the members of the executive team, are committed to producing quarterly to
share with the Board and all public stakeholders as to how the agency is proceeding to deliver those
outcomes.
Now I will transition to the engagement process. The interim process used to establish the basis for the
strategic plan began in mid April of this year with individual meetings with members of the Board, which
yielded input that informed the development of the strategic priorities. This was followed by leadership
team workshops and collaborative group meetings between the project team and each department to
discuss their respective why, which translates to the mission, the vision, and values. The amount of work
done by all of us in this time frame is remarkable and noteworthy.
On April 27th of 2021, I recall vividly engaging with all of you in a similar forum and approaching our path
forward by introducing the design thinking process as we discussed our road to recovery focused on the
first two stages of design thinking. One, empathize; observing, engaging, and understanding people's
experiences and motivations. And then the second was define; reframing and defining the problem to be
solved in human-centric ways. And to present focused strategic steps along the agency's road to recovery
from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The initial Board focused discussion relative to the why, the mission, vision, and values was held on May
5th. And the mission, vision, and values discussed that day where eventually molded into those found on
page 6 of the strategic plan. Following on June 5, 2021, the full Board of Directors met in person for a
strategic planning workshop to discuss and establish performance outcomes associated with strategic
priorities. Recognizing the clear intersection with the General Manager's performance, the strategic plan
alignment was discussed in the past for GMOC meetings.
On June 26th, the Board and the executive leaders met in person to crystallize the strategic planning
efforts and come to consensus on the path forward to establishing a blueprint for the agency's long term
success. Which brings us to the core purpose of the meeting this evening. RTD's 2021-2026 strategic
plan is both ambitious and actionable. No strategic plan should be an easy reach. As I often say, no one
can spell challenge without change.

This plan will serve as the guiding vision for strategic success. I truly believe that this plan will elevate
RTD to new heights through a focused pursuit of excellence. During our strategic planning retreat on
June 6, I shared with all of you my why.
I firmly believe that public transportation is the great societal equalizer, unleashing people from their
limitations and providing access to opportunities by providing a means of transport. That is why we have
our why in that we are people in the people business here at RTD. We make lives better through
connection.
In my listening sessions I heard from a wide range of voices, including the Board, but there was not an
abundance of trust with RTD. A vision as defined is aspirational as well as inspirational. A statement of an
idealistic emotional future of an organization. That is why we, collectively, are aspiring to be the trusted
leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value to our customers and community.
The organizational values, which are ideals and beliefs that we collectively hold to be true, as well as in
developing an intentional culture include passion. We will be purposeful in delivering our work. Respect;
we will demonstrate respect and integrity in our interactions with both our colleagues and community
members. Diversity; we honor diversity in thought, people, and experience being receptive to unique
ideas and viewpoints to achieve optimal results and problem-solving.
Trustworthiness; we will be forthright in our actions. We will do what we say when we say we will do it.
Collaboration; we will approach our work in a collaborative manner, seeking and acknowledging valued
input from our colleagues and the community. And last but certainly not least, there's the value of
ownership; we will commit ourselves to continuous learning and do what it takes to deliver our shared
vision.
Our what is what the agency strives to achieve as embodied by these four strategic priorities, which were
developed collectively and will serve as the functional pillars to plan, develop, evaluate, and measure
RTD's overall performance. So on page 15 of the plan, you can see the strategic priority. But recognizing
we just had an amendment, the community value reads as follows. "RTD strives to be a strong
community partner providing value to our customers, as well as the broader Denver metro region while
sustaining planet Earth."
Customer excellence. "RTD strives to consistently deliver high quality customer service." Employee
ownership. "RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly skilled and engaged workforce and financial
success, as RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial resources."
Now recognizing all that I've said, organizational alignment is paramount to any strategic plan. In order to
produce desired outcomes, there must be clear actions, the right organizational structure in place to
execute, as well as talented people in those roles and prioritize tracking metrics to monitor progress. The

blueprint for success involves the why, the what, the how, and the who, and translates to outcomes
driving organizational focus.
The strategic plan will serve as the functional pillars, as I've said before, to plan, develop, evaluate, and
measure RTD's overall performance. I have spent the past few minutes talking about how the plan came
to be. Now let's talk about bringing the plan to life. All of you in your capacity at the governing body of the
Regional Transportation District provide clarity with our why and our what, the mission, vision, and value,
as well as measurable strategic outcome. And in your capacity, you empower staff to do the how and the
who, develop work plans, milestones, and budget in addition to the performance metrics.
This slide nicely illustrates the Board's paramount role with the strategic plan. The Board provides
oversight and monitors staff's progress toward achieving defined outcomes. I, along with the executive
leaders, develop the work plans, will provide quarterly progress reports, and ensure there is budget and
resource alignment.
On page 9 of the strategic plan, the tactics for each department are outlined and described along with the
success outcome each tactic aims to achieve. With your recent action relative to the approval of this plan,
you have launched a new day for RTD as we collectively work to create a performance driven
organization. So reflecting on what has led me to this moment in time, the Board hired me to lead this
agency with vigor and courage.
This strategic plan brings to fruition my initial plan submitted to the Board on October 1st of 2020.
Coupled with the invaluable work and input garnered by this Board, the leadership team, and staff, it
creates organizational alignment amongst the Board, the General Manager and CEO, and staff.
Moreover, it bridges the gaps for fair and effective process to assess the General Manager and CEO's
performance, enhanced financial transparency, and improve reporting metrics, ensures that the internal
audit function is included in the strategic planning process.
Lastly but equally important, it provides a blueprint for success that involves the why, the what, the how,
and the who and translates to outcomes driving organizational focus. In closing, I am immensely proud of
where we have come in the past 274 days from November 9, 2020 until today, August 10, 2021.
Tremendous strides have been taken and I look forward to the continuous transformation of this agency.
Thank you for your support, engagement, and open mindedness as we collectively and collaboratively
develop the agency's multi-year blueprint for success. Madam Chair, this concludes my presentation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. Are there any questions or comments from
the Board? Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you Madam Chair, and I have to commend the General Manager and her
team and everyone involved in building the strategic plan, and of course, the Chairwoman. I know she's

worked laboriously on this as well and this is really tremendous. Sort of an interface question. The
Reimagine RTD process, how does that interface with this strategic plan?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, as you can see in the course of the plan itself, sir, it's incorporated in and
relative to the scorecard with planning, but Reimagine RTD is a very important tactic. Quite naturally as
we talk about where we're going futuristically, there were guiding principles that you adopted on April 20th
that we would use intentionally as we make decisions about service delivery and having those couple in
with the overarching strategic plan.
They're on parallel tracks and will be working in earnest as we develop and shape our future going
forward with our service delivery model that is basically reflective of where people need to go, when they
need to get there, factoring in the importance of access, diversity, and other aspects that are incorporated
in those four adopted principles of April 20th.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to thank Ms. Johnson for everything she's done
since she came here and to let her know-- although I think she already knows-- that she's made a huge
difference, not only to all of us but in the corporate culture of RTD that I think will continue to move us
forward as it has so far. So thank you so, so very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Williams. I greatly appreciate your words.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'll just pile on. Yeah, thank you. Ms. Johnson, I appreciate it. I just wanted to say how
excited I am to be at an agency that's going to turn its eye towards being performance based. I think the
fact that we will have some metrics and have data, which has been a theme for the last couple of months
of the areas that we don't have that history.
And so the idea that we'll have baselines, we'll have metrics, and we'll be focused on performance, I think
is going to do great things. Not just for us as an organization, but for our customers. And finally, I just
wanted to-- actually, two other things. Also thank you for putting together that slide. I think it's packet page
48, maybe slide 5 that showed the interface of how we're looking at the oversight of accountability
committees, state audit, so forth.
I think there's a lot of opinions out there as to how we should run our agency and I think being proactive of
showing how we're addressing those in our own strategic plan is extremely helpful. And the last thing I

just want to say is I'm really personally just excited and motivated by the mission of making lives better
through connections. It's why we're all here.
I wanted to express to staff and to Ms. Johnson that I have been thinking about that a great deal, whether
I'm out in the system, whether I'm just out in the world in Colorado. And I was thinking about it today at
one of our nice events in Golden and it's just an exciting mission and it's about making things better for
our customers and then measuring that success. So really just appreciate the discipline and the culture
that comes with that for the purposes of making lives better. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll be brief. I wanted to concur with what has been said previously by Directors Williams
and Davidson. I think this is a really, really great start to moving this agency forward and I found the
quality of the document to be superb, so thank you CEO and General Manager Johnson. I'm excited to
move forward with this as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I do not see anyone else in the queue. OK. General Manager, I
would just like to say to you that as a member of the community who has been involved in transportation
for as long as I can remember and with the Board of Directors off and on since 2010, I have never seen a
document that was more transparent, user friendly, or inclusive. And I am absolutely thrilled and over the
moon that we are presenting this tonight to this Board of Directors in collaboration with your senior
leadership team to move this agency forward. So I just want to say thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair and thank you once again everybody assembled here.
This was not done by myself, it took the support of all of you being open minded to change the trajectory.
So I really appreciate it. I do. And I'd be remiss to not publicly thank as well our project team, i.e. TransPro as well as others that worked with me like Michael Davies and John McKay in getting this all together.
And of course, the leadership team and their departments have spent an exorbitant amount of time in a
short four month time period and basically being open to continuous improvement and embracing this
because I do know it's new for a lot of individuals and there is enthusiasm around where we can go with
this and I'm excited as well. So I appreciate it and thank you once again.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. OK. So the recommended action is for the Board
to adopt the 2021 through 2026 strategic plan developed in concert with the Board of Directors, General
Manager and CEO, and the members of the executive leadership team.

The motion was made by Director Tisdale and seconded by Director Williams. I will also note that there
was an amendment to the-- I'm sorry. So I'm going to ask the General Counsel to help me with this
because I want to make sure I do this correctly in terms of the original amendment and then-- the original
recommendation and then the amendment on how to read it into the record now.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, there are facts and motions being accepted and if there's no further
discussion, you can go ahead and just call for a vote on the main motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, so I will call for the vote on the main motion. The motion is Director
Tisdale, the movement from Director Williams We'll do the roll call. Ms. McManus, can you help me with
that please?
KATE WILLIAMS: Barbara, you can't call the roll if you're muted.
SPEAKER 1: She's off mute now.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I was getting the listing back up. Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek, absent. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell, absent. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The item passes unanimously for the strategic planning process. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE Thank you. OK. Thank you ladies and gentlemen. With that in mind, are
there any other matters to come before the Board? I'm seeing none. I will now entertain a motion to
adjourn the meeting at 6:13 PM. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hello. Second Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE I say Director Tisdale's the movement, Director Williams is the second. Is
anybody in opposition to closing this Board meeting? OK. Seeing none. We are adjourned as of 6:13 PM.
Thank you all for joining us this evening and we will now continue on with the regularly scheduled
committee meetings with the first one being Communications and Government Relations. Should we take
just a five minute break to get into the next meeting? Thank you so much ladies and gentlemen.

