Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on Friday, April 13, 2007
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Analyst

Date:

April 13, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on
Friday, April 13, 2007 at 12:00 pm.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Others Present:

Chairman Chacon, Directors McMullen, and Martinez and Barbara
Yamrick via conference call.

Cal Marsella, Greg, Ken Hardin, Ty Perry, Michael Washington, Manny
Herrera, Linda Wilson, Ed Romero, Les Townsend, Sarah Fuentes, John
Dawson, Jim Stadler, Marla Lien and Lisa Trujillo.
****
Director Chacon called to the meeting to order at 12:03 p.m.

1.

Call to Order

2.

Introductions
Juanita welcomed everyone and asked that they introduce themselves.

3.

RTD Employment Opportunity Outreach
Manny Herrera, Senior Manager of Human Resources, shared with the committee
that currently they send job postings out to 70 organizations but have now
enhanced outreach efforts by expanding their list.
Manny then passed out the EEO 1 Report for 2006 (available upon request). The report
reflects the various distributions by ethnicity.
Juanita indicated that the committee wants to encourage people within our organization
to apply and qualify for internal postings.
Manny talked about how successful the Internship Program RTD is and that many
interns are hired full time.
Chris Martinez indicated that the committee would like to see RTD grow as an

Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on Friday, April 13, 2007
Page 2
organization just as FasTracks is.

4.

Report on PMC DBE Team Assessments
Les Townsend,

5.

Technical Assistance Summary Report

6.

Small Business Opportunity Office Activities

7.

Other Matters
Marla discussed process the thanked the three board members for being here at
meeting. She discussed the program that RTD tried to put together to get more DBE
and SBE contractors that would otherwise have trouble getting bonding. MOU’s with
varies chambers. Tried to put together own program by self insuring program. No
response on first procurement so it was cancelled. A second more detailed
procurement went out.
Juanita, Chris and Bill McMullen suggested moving forward.

7.

Next Meeting Date
TBD

8.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Martinez declared the meeting adjourned 1:20 pm.

