2023-06-27
Board Meeting
Part 1
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I will now call the Tuesday, June 27 RTD Board meeting to order. We
are convened as of 5:34 PM. I respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to
speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that committee
meetings of the RDT Board will still be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. You can visit RTD-denver.com. And a live stream is also available on
RTD's YouTube page.
We will start with the Pledge of Allegiance. Director Whitmore, could you lead us in the Pledge?
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Catlin-- oh no, Director Williams, would you please lead us in
the land acknowledgment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on
which our buses and our trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and
other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders,
who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate our commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacy of
inequity of all of the native and historically oppressed peoples and to recognize their current and future
contributions in our district as we move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And tonight we have a Statement of Employee Appreciation
that the Board has adopted. Director Sloan, could you read that, please?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. It would be my privilege. And I would especially like to announce the employee
recognition that we're doing this evening. The Statement of Employee Appreciation is the Regional
Transportation District Board of Directors recognize that RTD's dedicated workforce is a lifeblood of the
agency. Every day RTD employees do extraordinary things to make lives better through connections. We
honor their work-- excuse me. [COUGHS] That had to come when I was talking-- we honor their work of
delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult
and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our profound
gratitude, commitment, and support toward all RTD employees.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here, here. I agree. Thank you very much. I'll now call the roll. Director Bouquet.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ah. Welcome from faraway. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am here, Chair Guissinger. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick. He will not be with us tonight. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha. Director Ruscha, I believe she's coming but not here yet.
Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. With 13 present-- is it 13? And two absent, we have a quorum. Tonight we
have a special presentation. I'd like to introduce former Board Chair Lee Kemp, who was Chair of the
RTD Board for five years. But he's here tonight to present a flag to Chief Fitzgerald in memory of his son.
Welcome, Mr. Kemp.
LEE KEMP: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you [INAUDIBLE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Excuse me, Mr. Kemp, if you could move the microphone closer and speak into it.
Yeah, that'd be great. Thanks.
LEE KEMP: How's that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That'd be great.
SPEAKER 1: [INAUDIBLE]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

LEE KEMP: Thank you. Now can you hear me? [LAUGHS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can.
LEE KEMP: Madam Chair, thank you. Board members, distinguished staff, participants, my name is Lee
Kemp. I'm a Colorado Ranger. And I'm here tonight to present two flags to Chief Fitzgerald for the loss of
his son, who was killed in action on February 28, while doing police work for the Temple University in
Philadelphia. A tragic event, but-- anyway, I have two flags. I have two representatives here. One flag
was flown as a US flag in Washington under Senator Bennett. Hannah is here tonight representing
Senator Bennett. And another flag, flown at our state Capitol by Governor Polis. And [? Shaun ?] is here,
representing the Governor's office.
But I have two certificates showing that the flags have been flown. Now they also have personal letters
from both Senator Bennett and from the Governor that they would like to hand to you later, after this, for
you and your family. But, sir. I'm so sorry.
JOEL FITZGERALD. Thank you, Sir. Appreciate it.
[APPLAUSE]

So I'd just like to thank the Board. I'd like to thank the Colorado Rangers, Congressman's office, and
obviously, our Governor's office for acknowledging my son's loss. It is something that we'll never get over.
It's something that leaves a void in myself and my family every day.
He did the job the way you would have wanted him to do it here in Denver, and he did it that way in
Philadelphia. So we're proud of his sacrifice. We miss him greatly, deeply. But we are so very proud of
what he did for the City of Philadelphia, for Temple University, and for the people in Philadelphia, and that
he's had such an effect upon so many people across the country.
You can't be more proud of a child of yours for doing the great work that he's done and becoming the
transformational symbol of what you're supposed to do in a community and how you should treat people.
So I thank you. I Thank the members, obviously, of the Board of Directors that called and reached out. So
many of you reached out the day that it happened and really let me know that I was part of the RTD
family. And this tells me I'm more than just part of the RDT family, that my wife, his wife Marissa, my

grandkids, my son, we are all part of the family here in RTD, part of the family here in Colorado, and we're
respected and appreciated. So thank you so much for this.
[APPLAUSE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kemp and Chief Fitzgerald. I know I speak for all of us
at RTD in offering our deepest sympathies. We've heard wonderful things about your son. And the
sacrifice and commitment that your family has shown to public service are very impressive. So thank you
all. And thank you to the Governor and to Senator Bennett as well.
We have several retiree awards. One of the many rewarding duties of serving on this Board is the
recognition of RTD retirees. And the time has come for us to recognize those employees who are
embarking on their retirement. We're fortunate enough tonight to have three retirees. And we'd like to
recognize them for their years of service.
The first one is Martha Bembry, Senior Manager of Safety, Security, and Compliance, who has been here
for 16 years. Leah Riley, our Chief Administrative Officer, would you please introduce Martha and provide
any remarks you may have.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the Board. I don't believe Martha is here,
unfortunately. But I will say a few brief things. Martha was in public transit for over 30 years. She spent 16
of those years here at RTD, serving us. She was a really critical component of standing up the N Line and
also the implementation of all of our commuter rail lines.
She was also an integral part of our compliance and ensured that the agency closely followed all the
regulations from the Federal Railroad Administration. And I know from directly working with her that the
safety of commuter rail employees was paramount to every decision she made. And Martha is going to be
remembered for her hard work and dedication throughout the years. And if she were here, I'd tell her if
she puts as much effort into her retirement as she did her efforts in this agency, it's going to be successful
for her. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

A second retiree is Warren Holloway, a bus operator for 17 years. Are you here, Mr. Holloway?
WARREN HOLLOWAY: Yes [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And I see Mr. Worthen.
[APPLAUSE]
And Fred Worthen, our Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, has a few words for Mr. Holloway.

FRED WORTHEN: Well, first off, I want to thank the Board for reinstating these honoring events because
it has been a long time. But I will tell those of you who remember these events that this is one of the
greatest pleasures of my job is honoring the work of those who actually are the face of our agency.
Warren has been with the agency for 17 years, mostly at East Metro, a little bit of time at Platte. I actually
had the great pleasure of meeting him just a few days before he officially retired, in the hallway over at
East Metro. And I was giving him a hard time. I said there's no way he's old enough to retire.
And of course, he showed me his driver's license. But Warren has been very active in the community.
He's part of the jail ministry and his church for over 40 years now. Nine grandchildren-- and has been a
great asset to the agency for the last 17 years. I'm trying very hard to talk him into working regularly as a
part-time retiree.
[LAUGHTER AND APPLAUSE]
But Warren is a great guy, fantastic personality. And hopefully, he will be working part-time for us. But
we're going to miss having him out there in the field because he's the consummate professional for us.
Thank you very much for your years of service.
[APPLAUSE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Holloway, we'll take a picture in just a few minutes. But did you have anything
you wanted to say?
WARREN HOLLOWAY: Madam Chairman and all of the RTD Board, all the guests that are here today,
it's a privilege to be here. Thank you for this opportunity. Just, I'm going to try and make it as brief as I
can. I remember when I started RTD. Fulton Bell was the street operator. Some of you remember Fulton
Bell. I have to put on my glasses so I can see. And I was doing the 15, and I was parallel, going
eastbound on the East Colfax. And I had two gentlemen that got into a fight on the bus.
And I was just new, and I hadn't driven. Just before that, it took me five times to get my CDL.
[LAUGHTER]
Everybody else finished their-- breezed through their class, the course and everything. I was always the
last one out when it came to doing the homework and things after class. But I was doing the 15, and
these guys got in a fight on the bus. And as it turned out, there were officers there at the State Capitol,
who came out and intercepted everything. And we emptied the bus out, put our four-ways on, put on the
brakes, opened all the doors. And I sat there, and I cried.
I broke down, and-- I started at 55 at RTD. Most time when people are getting ready to retire, I was
starting a new career. I sat there and cried because I said, "I can't do this."
[LAUGHTER]
Fulton Bell, the street operator, came up to me and said, "what are you going to do?" So from that
moment on, after that, first three years it was very difficult for me here at RTD. It was a whole new
environment. I never worked in a Union situation. I never worked those hours that you would work. And it

just took three years for the adjustment. As a matter of fact, the Lord had to give me an attitude
adjustment because I didn't want to be here.
[LAUGHTER]
The most likely to not succeed out of my class of 25 people. I think there's only one other person, and
he's a train operator. But I Thank you for the opportunity you gave me to be a professional, to be able to
represent this district and to be able to be the face of the district to the public. Just last week, I got the
opportunity to talk to Debra for the first time at a press conference-- after a press conference. And I
shared with her just briefly I was retired and things.
I think RTD is in a pretty good hands with all of you. And thank you for listening to us bus operators.
Continue to be there for us because we need you. We need you. So again, I just want to thank all of you
for this opportunity.
[APPLAUSE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Holloway. And thank you for all your years of great service. Next
one is Victoria Salazar, a sales information representative for 31 years. Are you here Ms. Salazar?
VICTORIA SALAZAR: I am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, great. Great, great. Stuart? Stuart Summers, our Chief Communications and
Engagement Officer will introduce Victoria and has a few remarks.
STUART SUMMERS: Good evening, Madam Chair and members of the Board. It's my honor and distinct
privilege to take a few minutes and recognize Vicky Salazar, who recently retired after 31 years of
dedicated service at RTD. Vicky has been a very familiar face to many since she started in 1992. She first
started as a telephone information agent and then transferred to sales and information in 1996. And that's
where she worked up until her retirement earlier this month.
When Vicky started working at RTD, there was not a trip planner to assist customers with route and
schedule information. Instead, Vicky had to learn and memorize every bus route and connecting point to
provide customers with accurate and timely information with all the schedules and stops. Vicky excelled in
this role because she was able to give instructions and information off the top of her head, a skill she
continued to provide to our customers during her three decades at RTD.
Vicky has worked in every sales outlet location, has been part of every rail opening at RTD. She has
supported technology changes over the years with her positive attitude and has been a great mentor and
example to all of her colleagues. Her supervisor told me that the team greatly misses Vicky's work ethic,
misses her greatly, even though it's only been a couple of weeks, her ingenuity, her passion, and her
dedication. She was a pillar of their team, a leader, and leaves a lasting impression for all of us here at
RTD.
Vicky, on behalf of all of us in the Department, thank you for your years of service. And you are going to
be missed.
VICTORIA SALAZAR: Thank you so, so much.

[APPLAUSE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead. Great.
VICTORIA SALAZAR: Madam Chair, Board members, and guests, my family, I want to thank all of you for
giving me the opportunity to work here at RTD. It's been a pleasure for these 31 years. And like Stuart
said, I've seen it all.
[LAUGHTER]
I've seen it all. And I want to thank all Board members that have been here, all General Managers that
have been here to guide the way for what RTD has become today. I want to thank all of you for believing
in me to do the job that I have done. I think I did a pretty good job in getting people from one stop to
another. I believe I did a pretty good job. And I do want to thank all of you once again for believing in me
and for allowing me to do the best that I could. Thank you so much.
[APPLAUSE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Are we doing pictures? Are we done? Did-- yeah.
[INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think they just wanted a picture [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER 2: Give us all one moment. We'd like to do a photo with the retirees, the CEO, and the Chair of
the Board, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, yes. Wonderful. Oh, thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you again for your service. I would also like to recognize three other retirees
who were unable to attend the meeting tonight, Craig Hinrichs, Maintenance of Way Supervisor for 27
years; Mitch Kuharski, Construction Project Manager for 21 years; and Barb Vigil, a bus operator for 16
years. Thank you all so much for your service to RTD.
Our next item on the agenda is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to
address the Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, we'll take the in-person comments
first, followed by those who are participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to
the podium, when your name is called. If you've not already signed up to speak and would like to do so,
please approach the podium when I call for additional speakers.

For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual
hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in,
please press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at RTD.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
RTD.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers, please begin your remarks by stating your name, and you'll have up to three minutes to
provide your comments. I have a list here of people who have signed in, and I'm going to take it in order
and then there may certainly be others who have come in after this list was picked up. And we will check
in again in a few minutes. The first speaker I have is Jerry Jimenez. So, Mr. Jimenez, if you would come
to the podium, and please state your name, and you may proceed.
JERRY JIMINEZ: Madam Chair, Board, my name is Jerry Jimenez. I'm a bus operator out of the Platte
Division. I come to speak to you guys about the assaults that have been happening. Me personally, I've
been a seven-year driver. I've been involved in three different assaults, two on myself, one on another
driver. The most recent one is the one I'm going to speak about the most.
I was assaulted on May 6 at Union Station. We closed down the mall buses due to the Cinco de Mayo
celebration parade. We could not operate, so we all parked. We got out of our buses. We were sitting on
the planters waiting for our restart. We'd already been closed down for about two and a half hours before
we were getting ready to restart. So as all of the drivers are congregating together, all of a sudden out of
the blue, from my left, a transient came by with a bag. They had stuff in a bag. One was a Gatorade bottle
and some other things. And I got blasted upside the face.
I was not happy. I remained calm. I turned to my co-workers, had them call security over. Transit police
showed up. The person who assaulted me literally just went and sat on the next planter over, waited for
them to come. It took about five minutes for them to come. They sat there and waited.
When the transit police came and assessed the situation, I was bleeding out of my mouth. I told them I
wanted to press charges. They said they couldn't do that. They wrote her a citation. She walked off. They
didn't frisk her. They didn't check her for anything. They took her name, her information, wrote her a
citation, and he walked off.
I then-- about a month later I talked to him-- about two weeks later, I talked to the Deputy Commanders
about the situation, and they said they'd get back to me. They said the assailant, about a week after I
talked to them, they got the assailant again for trespassing, but still have yet to hear anything from what
had happened with this person that assaulted me. I felt deflated. I felt deprived, to be assaulted and not
be able to do a thing about it. That's pretty much what I have to say, you know? I was-- I was a mess
afterwards. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Mr. Jimenez. Yeah, I'm sorry that happened. Dawn Russell is
our second speaker. Ms. Russell, if you can get to the-- oh. Yeah, they'll help you right now. Thanks.

DAWN RUSSELL: Vicky are you-- oh, Vicky, are you still over there? I looked back and recognized you a
few minutes ago, and I didn't know you were going to retire today. But I just want to say, for one of the
passengers that would always roll up, always in a hurry trying to catch the next bus, train, or whatever,
and I would ask you where I was going. And you never had to look. You would just send me in that
direction.
VICTORIA SALAZAR: It's at the top of my head
DAWN RUSSELL: It was at the top of your head. Thank you very much.
VICKY/ SALAZAR: You're very welcome. It was nice to serve you, nice to help you.
DAWN RUSSELL: Yes, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just watch it.
DAWN RUSSELL: I know, and I'm sure it relates to what the bus operator was just speaking of. And I
know that y'all are faced with trying to figure out how to best provide transportation in the best, most
efficient-- moving us across the city. And there are big responsibilities with that. And I just wanted to say
to the bus operator, sorry for that experience.
And then, why I'm here is I just wanted to share when I was down at Union Station. And there was an
encounter, I guess, with the transit police. And I don't think, when it first started happening, I realized what
was going on. And I'm going to run over because I've got a sleepy brain and it takes me a minute to catch
up to what I'm talking about. So I may need a little extra second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DAWN RUSSELL: I was profiled there at Union Station. It was the same route that all of the services are-the main service on the LD, on the Denver to Longmont bus. And it had been cut down to those limited
services with that over-the-road bus. Well, I was there with a lot of riders that I rode with every day. And
we recognized each other because that's what a bus community does.
And I remember, I was trying to figure out how I was going to get home because I missed that straight
shot to Lafayette. And so I was kind of going around where you go get the brochures, and I was
approached by the transit police that started questioning me about what I was doing there. And at first I
said, "catching a bus," not thinking much about it. And he followed with a line of questions, like "where do
you live?" "Where are you going?" "What's your address?"
And then all of a sudden, about the time that I realized that he was questioning whether I was actually a
bus rider or not, my fellow bus riders that were there with me, they rallied around and said she rides this
bus all the time. And so the crowd, like we often find in situations where friends save us, I felt like that
that's probably when I started thinking about coming and testifying. I just remember what that felt like. And
there's a lot of people that come to Union Station and depend on that transportation. And they never need
to be approached about the validity of them being there. So thanks for listening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Russell. Richard Farley is our next speaker.
RICHARD FARLEY: Good evening, members of the Board. My name is Richard Farley. I am co-chair of
the LoDo District, Inc., which is a registered neighborhood organization that's business oriented. We

strongly support respect to the ride-- Respect the Ride amendments. They are common-sense
requirements that will reinforce the safety and desirability of transit. The lower downtown neighborhood is
unique in its reliance on dependable, safe, and attractiveness of transit. The Respect the Ride
amendments will help encourage more ridership to downtown and lower downtown. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you, Mr. Farley. Marty Steinberg is our next speaker.
MARTY STEINBERG: Thank you for allowing me to speak. I come here as a business owner in LoDo.
I've been in business for about eight years. I have about 30 employees in a spa that is down there. And
having the Respect the Ride go through is so important to us because my employees need a way to have
good, safe transportation. And it's been very difficult for them to want to take the buses or the trains
because of the safety issues that are around there.
I've even offered EcoPasses to all of them if they want to take it. And they all say no. I'd rather ride my
bike or take my car or get an Uber or that type of thing. So I think this is so important to our businesses
that are down here that it's-- this needs to be passed if it goes through. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I believe the last name of the next speaker is Orton. Mr. Orton? Yeah.
Great.
JERRY ORTON: Good evening. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Jerry Orton, Present of the Lower
Downtown Neighborhood Association, also a board member on that organization. And I'm on that same
board with Dick Farley, the LoDo District-- a resident at 17th and Wewatta, a business owner at 15th and
Market, and an EcoPass buyer as a business owner since 2009. All of that, I think means, to me, is that
the Respect the Ride amendments are critical for us and our city. And we urge you to pass them. And
thank you for passing them.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Orton. Our next speaker is Susan Melia. Please state your name,
and you may proceed.
SUSAN MELIA: Hi, my name is Susan Melia, and I'm here as an RTD rider. I take the E Line to the Tech
Center three days a week. I'm on that train for over 30 minutes. I really hope that you pass the Respect
the Ride. When you're stuck in a tin box for 30 minutes between stops, where you have no way to get out,
safety is really important. I now carry pepper spray. I carry a flashlight that turns into a taser because I've
experienced numerous issues.
And when I talk about safety, one of the things I think about is enforcing the pass. Right? I happened to
do my own little experiment for the first three months of the year. My pass was checked seven, maybe
eight times. And of half of those times, I reported issues on the train.
And the people that are the problem on the train are our service resistant, it's the folks that are on drugs
and suffering from mental illness. I understand there are people that feel like the train should be a shelter.
It's not a traveling shelter. It's really designed for commuters.
When I talk about safety, I also think of the cleanliness of the train. When you have people that have been
sleeping out in the streets, urinating all over their clothes, there are people on the train who will not sit
down because they've sat in urine. That's not the way you want to commute to work.

I've seen drug paraphernalia. I've seen people start to light up and other commuters yell at them. I would
actually tell you, too, that my coworkers in the Tech Center all live in the suburbs. And I have been told
many times, "Wow, you really take your life into your hands when you commute in." They cannot believe I
take the train.
Now I will say, I've lived in Colorado for four years. I previously am from Massachusetts, from the
suburbs-- huge commuter. Loved it. Commuter trains, subways, I've done it all. And I never once felt
unsafe. I never once had to carry a taser. I never once had to carry pepper spray. I do not feel that way
here.
Now, my husband would tell you I should not take the train. I'm fortunate, I do have a car that I could drive
if I wanted to. But I'm adamant I'm going to take the train because I feel it's so important that we stay true
to what transportation was meant to be. And it's really important that, as Board members, that you're
voting based on the needs of the commuters. Again this is not meant to be a traveling shelter. This is
meant to help us get people off the roads, to help with congestion due to all the traffic. If people are not
feeling safe, they're not going to come.
And then the second thing is reliability. I mean, obviously right now, there's a lot of construction going on.
I'm a huge fan of the apps. When the app tells me the train's coming and it doesn't, that's disappointing.
But I also use the one to report all kinds of issues. And the only thing I would add to that is, when I report
something and there's something going on the train, and I just get a generic, "Hey, thank you," that's not
helpful. I don't if you're coming to address the issue.
I've been fortunate that about half the ones that I've had to support, I've actually had the privilege of
opening up a chat, not that should be a privilege anyone should have because obviously it's something
serious if I'm reporting it. In 33 minutes after I get off the train, that person is still on there. So thank you
for listening. And again, I hope you pass the Respect the Ride.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]
Appreciate your comments. Amanda Johnson?
AMANDA JOHNSON: Good evening, everyone. Thank you for having me. I'm a light rail operator out of
Elati division. I have a few pictures with me. I actually have quite a few in a Dropbox file. Just like this
lovely commuter here that said that the open drug use on board is out of control. It's bothering the
operators to the point where they're having migraine headaches. They're getting nauseous. They're
having blurred vision. And we have a lot of ODI reports, the Workman's Comp reports. There's nothing
that they can do for us. Except for, "well, we'll just send you home and, hopefully, you'll feel better." Well,
that's not OK with us.
The graffiti that is put on the trains, this one says RTD is my free ride to smoke my blues, which means
they smoke their fentanyl on board. So just like on Sunday, I had nothing but a three-car H Line full of
graffiti, drug paraphernalia, and a warm cup of pee left for me at the end of the line.
They leave cigarette butts to continue to go out on the train. This is also a Coors Light can. That was 8:00
in the morning on a D Line. Also, more drug paraphernalia, foil, cigarette butt put out on the floor of the
light rail trains-- this is what you get to see when you come onto the light rail. You get to see this on the
floor, on the stairs, waiting for you to get on in the morning.

I have plenty of other things, but also, crushed up fentanyl pills on the windowsill of a light rail train. This
was on my W Saturday morning. I do multiple lines. I do a R Line, I do a W Line, and I also do a H Line.
No line is immune to any of this kind of stuff.
The seating-- no one wants to sit in this. I don't know what this is, and I don't want to know what it is. Also,
this is another one where somebody had left a dirty pair of underwear and diarrhea on both seats. I had to
hand this train off to my relief operator. Also, this is another one. This is human feces in the stairwell,
where I caught this gentleman with his pants pulled down defecating in front of me. I was not happy
because I was stuck in the Mineral tail track with him.
We have a lot of stuff that is left for us at the end of the line, people who are passed out from doing drugs,
alcohol, whatever. We can't wake these folks up. We have such a hard time. We're also told by control
sometimes, there's no security for us. So what are we left to do? We're left to turn the train by ourselves
with these people we don't know. I don't know what they're capable of. I'm by myself. And so is everyone
else, even some of my other operators that are here today.
We turn our trains by herself. A lot of our pullback operator positions have gone away. And that's
unfortunate, but I understand. But I also have-- I mean, they leave it on the seat. This is another piece of
foil that they have used to smoke fentanyl off of.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. We really appreciate your service to RTD. And, yeah, it's
impressive.
AMANDA JOHNSON: Yeah. I'm a five-year veteran. And before-- I know I'm going over. I'm so sorry. But
my boyfriend was also a 5 and 1/2-year veteran light rail operator. We carpooled together. We scheduled
our routes about the same. We were able to vacation with our families. He resigned two weeks ago. He is
not the first, and he is not the last. There are more operators looking to leave because of the drug use.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
AMANDA JOHNSON: I appreciate your time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We appreciate your time too.
[APPLAUSE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Joe Melia?
JOE MELIA: I suppose I can't take everyone else's extra time that they didn't use, so I'm going to use
mine very efficiently.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
JOE MELIA: I was going to talk about the experience my wife had a couple of Decembers ago, but I feel
almost embarrassed to be up here, listening to your employees and bringing them to tears about their job.
So we've heard about all the safety things. I'm going to take a little bit of a turn here. I come from the
private sector. This is new to me. If there's a problem in the private sector, if an employee came to me
and I managed people, and they said any of these-- one of these dozens of things that have happened,
that would be fixed that day.

There is no support for employees. There is no support for frontline employees. I talk to them all of the
time. The cleaners that are there, minimum-wage cleaners. Everything that people just spoke about
today, a couple of minutes ago, those are the people that are cleaning up. We're walking on eggshells
around this issue.
It's not a hard issue to fix. It's a hard one to decide, to have a little bit of-- I don't know-- intestinal fortitude
to come to the table and say, "we're going to fix this. We're not going to kick the can down the road." I
know your elected officials, many of you at the table. That doesn't cut it. You're supposed to be supporting
the people that are keeping this thing running.
This is a business. If you can't keep employees-- and you know better than I do, it's easier and less
expensive to keep an employee and a customer than it is to go out and get new ones. You lose people.
And if these issues aren't fixed, you lose more people. They're never going to come back. You can give
them two free months. You can give them six free months. You can give it to them free. You've got to
have guardrails.
It's not a Utopia where everyone's going to behave. And I'll tell you, I just feel embarrassed being here
talking about my personal things, which I run into. But I can't imagine showing up to drive a bus every day
or to take tickets or do anything and have to deal with that day in and day out, consistently. And yet, they
still show up for 17 years, five years, five and a half years.
You get great employees, but you're not supporting them. The Chief, since he came in, huge
improvements. And I think this code of conduct, it's being reinvented for the times that we're in. And we're
trying to fix it. Fix it for us, the customers. Fix it for your employees. Forget about all the white noise.
We're your customers. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
Brian Holloway. Still here?
SPEAKER 3: OK. [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, OK. Great Ms. Kaiser?
MANDY KAISER: My name is Mandy Kaiser. I've been an RT employee for five years, four and a half at
light rail. The revised policy and code of conduct is sufficient, very well articulated, and covers most
issues. However, the negligent act of enforcement is the major issue. Operators feel unsupported,
defeated, and abandoned in this growing crisis. This is our daily collective experiences. On a daily basis,
operators face the growing fentanyl crisis, being actively cooked, cut, and smoked in our trains and on
every single station across the entire alignment as a result of the lack of code enforcement.
It has made it difficult for operators to safely and effectively do our jobs. The side effects include nausea,
dizziness, mental impairment, extreme drowsiness, fatigue, respiratory symptoms, itchy burning skin and
eyes, and, yes, even blackouts. This is the result of looking the other way at this illegal activity, as it is
being done on RT property with no real repercussions. This is also due to the increase in the homeless
population and mentally ill actively setting up shop on and around RT properties since COVID.

It has become truly embarrassing, tedious, and unsafe for legit, paying customers, all of which have
asked why the rights of these non-paying homeless drug users, actively committing crimes daily, trump
the rights of the legit, paying public. These are the very reasons employee retention and ridership are so
low. Violence against operators has drastically increased in the past few years, and nobody's doing
anything about it. This includes threats of sexual assault to the operators, especially the minority female
operators-- only 20 of us out of 180. It also includes threats of being shot, stabbed, assaulted with
baseball bats, PVC pipes, followed into bathrooms, threats of being killed, beat up, spit on, verbally
assaulted, and racist rants, and the list goes on.
In addition, one would think that we just came out of a world-altering pandemic, that the hygiene and
biohazard policy be strictly enforced. Instead, every single day these biohazards are left on our trains.
This includes feces, urine, blood, vomit, dirty needles, used tampons. Lewd and lascivious acts are
committed every day, like men masturbating in public, people having sex, et cetera, et cetera. All of this
attracts rodents, bedbugs, lice, roaches, flies, and so on. This is a safety hazard to both the public and
operators.
In conclusion, light rail should be a point of pride for the city, as it once was. Instead, due to the lack of
security, their training, and unavailability, as well as enforcement of an already-established policy, it has
become a safe haven for criminals that will only get worse if not taken seriously. It's not a matter of when- not a matter of if, but when a catastrophic event happens that could have been prevented. I implore you,
as our Board of Directors, to take what I am telling you seriously, to provide us a safe work environment
and the paying customers safe and reliable public transportation system, as you were elected to do.
Thank you for your time.
[APPLAUSE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Thanks very much, Ms. Kaiser. And as with Ms. Johnson, thank you for
your service for RTD, and thanks for coming to speak with us tonight. Derek Mitchell. There she is.
DEREK MITCHELL: Good evening, Board members. It's kind of hard to go after that, but I'm just going to
kind of echo the things that the last few people have said. A little bit about me-- I'm a light rail operator
over at Elati. I am in my 20th year. The things that's going on the trains is out of control. The security, it's
like there isn't any.
The homelessness on the trains is ridiculous. We get to the end of the line, they don't want to get up.
They're sleeping. They got their feet on the chairs, on the seats. I am on the safety committee, actually at
Elati. And we do discuss some of these things that is going on with the alignment.
The stations are trashed. A lot of drug use in the stations-- inside the-- on the rails on the alignment,
there's trash. And nothing is being really done about it. And it's not fair to people who ride the train, who
has to get on the train with people who don't-- poor hygiene, drugs. And it's sad. It's really sad. It's sad for
the operator who has to put up with that every day and the people who's on the train.
This is not an overnight fix. I understand that. But something has to be done about the homelessness, at
least. And that's not just on a train. There's homelessness all around the alignment that is not safe, for
them or us or the people on the train. There's homeless camps all along the alignment. And it's just not
safe for them or anyone else. So, like they've said, there's a lot going on on the train. And to come to work
every day and put up with it is kind of like-- you got to come to work. You got to do what you got to do to

feed your family. But some of this stuff should not be happening. So, thank you for your time. Appreciate
it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Mr. Mitchell.
[APPLAUSE]
Next speaker, and the last one I have on my paper here is Kim Fleming. Please state your name, or
names, and go ahead.
MANDY KAISER: Good evening. My name is Kim Fleming. I'm with my colleague, Chelsea Primak. We
are here from the African Community Center, which is one of Colorado's refugee resettlement agencies.
We are here to be the voice for our community members. We hear, almost on a daily basis, directly from
our clients about every-- same vein as what the other speakers have talked about, safety. Our country
welcomes these families, and we promise them a safe life here. And unfortunately, to get them there
we're getting stuck at the transportation part, hearing especially from mothers who have young children,
who rely on RTD to take their kids to school, to go to medical appointments, to attend English classes, to
get to and from work.
But when we hear from them, "I tried taking the bus, but this incident happened to me. I didn't feel safe. I
felt threatened. I don't want to take my kids on the bus." What can we tell them? They don't have another
option. We have a lot of other community members who spend two, three hours a day commuting to and
from their jobs. Again, they're trying to support their families here, maybe supporting families back at
home. And a lot of the people we work with are coming from war zones, you know, from places where
they've had a lot of trauma. And so incidents that may not even be traumatic to someone who was born
and raised here might be triggering for somebody.
So our ask is just to keep our new Americans in mind as you are thinking of the safety issues and,
hopefully, trying to remedy some of those so that we can confidently tell our community members, "RTD
is safe. The bus and the train are safe places for you to bring your family and for you to commute."
CHELSEA PRIMAK: Thank you. I'm Chelsea Primak. I've worked in refugee resettlement for over 16
years now. And I have seen this part of it change drastically. As Kim said, our community members
depend on public transportation. Initially when they get here, that is their only option. We provide them
with bus passes each month. We're not able to afford to provide Uber rides or other alternatives. And I'll
just say that, in the past years, we would see people continue to take RTD for years and years and years
after they arrived here. And now, we see people, as soon as they can, borrowing money from friends,
getting really bad loans, and buying a car as quickly as humanly possible so that they don't have to take
this anymore.
We also have quite a few veterans who worked with the US troops in Afghanistan and Iraq, who have
worked as contractors at Union Station and other places. And we have heard horror stories from them as
well, saying that it's different and worse, in some ways, than active combat. So we are here to be the
voice for the voiceless. And really, this is a great pool of people that you would have as regular riders for
years and years and years, that would be loyal customers but are really afraid now. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you both. Appreciate your comments.
[APPLAUSE]

Is there anyone else in the room that wanted to speak and has not yet signed up, before we go to the
remote speakers? Yes, please. Go ahead and go to the podium and state your name, please.
ANDREW ILTIS: Good evening. My name is Andrew Iltis. I am-- I can't get that tall enough for me. I'll just
bend over. I am with the Downtown Denver Partnership, and I also act as the Executive Director of the
Downtown Denver Transportation Management Association, working with a lot of businesses and
employers and employees that utilize transit quite often. In 2019, we had 39% of people using transit to
get downtown to work, which was a really great, great milestone for us and our transportation system and
our city. And we hear now that that would be almost impossible to get to that number just because of the
personal well-being of the employees of those large companies.
They just don't feel like they can provide safe transportation. They don't believe that, by providing an
EcoPass, they're able to attract their employees to use those transportation options. So as where
downtown had an advantage, we were able to provide this economic advantage for employees. All the
people, from the hospitality industry to white collar office business workers, were using transit. And now
we just don't see that as possible. And as we've heard, this is impacting most extremely those who don't
have a choice.
The last thing I'll just say is that we see transit as a socioeconomic equalizer. And we really believe that,
until we're able to solve this problem of personal safety, personal well-being on our transit vehicles, that
we won't be able to get to that economic advantage again. And so I implore you to support the policy
amendments for Respect the Ride. And we look forward to working with you in the future.
[APPLAUSE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. Anyone else in the room that would like to speak? OK. Do we
have-JILLIAN: [INAUDIBLE] we have one more.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry. You may come on up to the microphone and state your name and
begin, please.
JACOB: Hi, I'm Jacob. I'm a bus operator out of Boulder. I'm just kind of with the other operators here,
just to explain that the fentanyl use is just rampant, even on our buses-- just as bad. I think I have an idea
of how you guys could attack it, if you could just give me an email, and I could give you what I think is a
good step-by-step program. It's just it's frustrating.
I've actually been exposed twice out of the last two weeks. I had to go home because it gave me a
massive headache. I couldn't drive safely. And I could only imagine what's doing it to the passengers
because these people just do it in front of children, babies. I mean, they don't care. It's disheartening.
I also have personal issues with it from my own wife, but not me personally, but people I know. But it's
just really disheartening. And it would be nice to see something change. I mean, just like all these other
people have said, it's just-- it's hard. So we're losing people from the operator side and customers. And
honestly, these next two months with the free ridership, I'm kind of scared because these people that
usually just-- because that are homeless that just avoid the bus most of the time because they don't want
to spend any money, now they're going to be welcome onto these platforms. And who knows if they're
going to do drugs or whatnot, you know.

So just wanted to put my piece out there. So, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And again, thank you for your service. And you mentioned
that you had some information for us. You or any of the others, if you'd like to follow up, you can send an
email to rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
JACOB: [INAUDIBLE] card?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't know if we have a card. I think it's on website. So, Kate, writing it down?
Great. Thank you. OK. And others, you can get on the website. I see one more speaker in the back there.
Again, state your name, please, and you have three minutes to speak.
DAVE HUDSPETH, JR.: Hi, my name is Dave Hudspeth, Jr. I'm out of Boulder, been there for, like, 12
years. But that's beside the point. In April of '22, I was assaulted, and it took a long time for-- it was a
Saturday. It took a extremely long time for our supervisors to get up to Boulder. We didn't have any in
Boulder at the time, so they had to come from Denver.
So, the police officer that was there, he had made a suggestion. He said, because it took a long time for
our dispatch to contact Boulder PD, so he says, whenever you come across this again, do what your
company tells you to do and then call 911. OK? I did that in February of '23. And whenever Dispatch
initially called me, the police officers were already there, and the other guy was already apprehended.
So that's what we're going to-- that's what I'm suggesting for everybody else to be doing, is follow
instructions, what your boss tells you to do, and then step out of your seat and call 911. The cops get
there and apprehend the person before the dispatch even calls you. That's a problem.
The other thing that I have is that supervisor had told me-- well, no. I told the supervisor my story. He
wrote a different story and said that I shoved the perpetrator off the bus. Well, number one, I wouldn't do
that because that's-- we could get fired for that. Now, that's crazy. If we can get fired for just pushing the
person that's attacking us off the bus, that's unacceptable. You need to be able to protect yourself and
your passengers somehow, somewhere, some way. And by pushing a person off the bus, that should
have been commended, not being fired. I didn't push him, so I wasn't fired.
And also, this free ride service, that's what you guys got. It's fine. It's no big deal. But the last time that it
was done, I saw a lot of passengers that was regulars disappear. And then I saw a lot of homeless people
take over. And just recently, I've started seeing some of those other passengers come back. And then
they say, another two months of free? They say they don't know if they're going to be coming back-something to look at.
I know there's a lot of pros and cons on freebie, but just take a look at it.
[APPLAUSE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And as with the others, thanks so much for your service. Anybody else
in the room to speak? OK. How about remotely? Do we have anyone raising their virtual hand or calling
in?
JILLIAN: We do. We have, first up, James Flattum.

LYNN GUISSINGER: James Flattum-- go ahead, Mr. Flattum. State your name, and you have three
minutes.
JAMES FLATTUM: Thanks very much. Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum. I'm with
Greater Denver Transit. I think we have a few people in the queue from our group who were going to be
making comments tonight. I'm going to be continuing, following up on the Respect the Ride code of
conduct revisions. Appreciate the overwhelming volume of operators and riders tonight who have
expressed their experience on the system and just how radically different it was then, before the
pandemic.
And I also wanted to express appreciation for what the Board is trying to do here. We agree, or I agree,
that having a clear code of conduct that minimizes ambiguity is a really good thing. Something that
simplifies the decision-making process for staff who are responsible for enforcing the code is a good
thing. But importantly, in terms of what the riders and the operators experience, the behaviors that have
been brought up tonight have all been, almost all of them, have been prohibited under the old code of
conduct. So if we're talking about something that we're rolling out as a public safety measure, where the
public is going to be expecting some sort of different experience on RDT in the future, it's difficult to see
exactly where this new code of conduct is going to deliver on that, chiefly because there is a huge gap in
between the resources RTD has to enforce a safe transit system and what they need to do it.
From what we can tell, RTD is over 200 bodies short to deliver, basically, a system where they're at least
even able to be present to enforce any code of conduct. So what I would urge the Board to do tonight is
create a resolution, a proclamation from the Board and from management, that's aimed at your city and
state partners because this is something that you're not going to be able to do alone to improve and
address the state of the system it's going to be important that you acknowledge, explicitly, the gap
between your ambitions that you've included in the language of this new code of conduct and what the
capabilities are of the agency to get there. And from what we can see, there is no bridge. There is no
bridge between where RTD is today and the resources that are going to be needed to address this. We
need state and local support from our state partners.
We would urge this resolution make specific and measurable requests from city partner personnel,
including social workers, mental health professionals, addiction specialists, and law enforcement to
provide a genuine alternative to individuals present on the system because they feel they have no other
place to go. RTD's system will not feel meaningfully more safe or welcoming until city partners step up
and support their transit agency, as peer agencies have benefited across the country in the wake and
recovery from COVID.
Finally, to address the Ride with Pride Day that RTD Directors Ruscha, Guzman, and Dishell have been
promoting, definitely want to express my personal support for this, for this initiative. However, when it
comes to experiences on the system, I think it's very widely acknowledged that the RTD system is a place
where members of the LGBTQIA2S+ community are at a higher risk of experiencing targeted aggressive,
intimidating, and violent behavior, which was already prohibited under the prior code of conduct, higher
risk than other places in the Denver Metro area. Because of this, Greater Denver Transit supports the
Board amending the motion to adopt a strong position against aggressive, intimidating, and violent
behavior targeted at anyone, much less, and specifically, members of the LGBTQIA2S+ community who
are using RTD services. Thank you. And that concludes my comments.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. We appreciate your comments. Again, anyone, if you want
a response or want to send your suggestion, you can send it to rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Is there
someone else in the line?

JILLIAN: Next up, we have Richard Bamber.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Bamber, state your name, and you can go ahead, please.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi, there. Good evening. It's Richard Bamber, also with Greater Denver Transit. I'd
like to talk about the apparent result of the public engagement process. We had a two-month window for
the public was engaged, consulted, so [INAUDIBLE]. I've got the report here. It's 743 comments, where
the public were just allowed-- I say the public. It was the public, our community, and also RDT employees- were allowed to basically write any comment. And yet, the number of changes that have happened to
the code of conduct we were being consulted on-- that is the April side-by-side document in the Board
packet-- is exactly zero. So that leads me to kind of suspect that that's not really a public engagement, if
you're not actually going to listen to your public, community, and employees.
The other thing is, I should note in the agenda packet tonight, we see that the previous attempt at the
code of conduct has been included, the one that was drafted in December 2022. That's the one that's got
55 clauses, of which there was some sort of comment on that. So I hope that's just in there for
completeness of the record, and no Director thinks that that's the version they are voting on tonight.
Back the point-- I'm a regular W Line rider. All the picture that you have been given tonight from your
employees, from riders, from community members is true. The problem on light rail, because of the nature
of it with no second person, is more prevalent. And part of it is because, while RTD has generally made
progress at Union Station, some of that progress has been at the cost of pushing the problem onto the
light rail. The W Line, Sheridan, and Wadsworth stations are particular. And I'm sure many people in the
room tonight can name other stations that are trouble spots.
So what I would like to do is RTD-- it's all going to be about enforcement. A lot of the things that have
been said today are already illegal under the code. These are things-- assault, drug use, littering,
aggressive behavior is already illegal. OK? So what we need going forward is a code that is not
ambiguous, does not have vague, subjective phrases. We don't need that. So I would encourage the
Board to adopt amendments that are aimed at reducing the complexity of code, reducing the number of
clauses, and making this code very, very simple to understand.
At the end of the day, for the benefit of the room, drug use shouldn't be happening on our trains. Assault
shouldn't be happening on our trains. Nobody, a customer or an employee should be experiencing that.
And finally, I'd like to echo James's comments. We support the Rider Pride Day and any amendments
that is related to safety of that community. And also, I'll finish off, if you do decide next year to paint a bus,
can you please not cover the windows. Thank you. Good night.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. Who's next?
JILLIAN: Next up we have Earl Lee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Lee, state your name, please. And you may begin.

EARL LEE: Thank you, Madam Chairman. My name is Earl Lee, and I'm here tonight-- I might be a little
bit unpopular here in just a minute because my approach is we need to postpone the vote on the Respect
the Ride. I think that the way it is written, as many people have said, there's ambiguity, there's confusing
and contradicting statements in there. Remarks regarding what's trespassing-- you know, you're not
allowed to be in a building or on a bus when it's out of service or closed-- that type of rhetoric simply takes
up too much, too much space in this entire document.
I think it needs to be cut down. I've forwarded to the Board Office this afternoon a letter stating specific
items that I think need to be addressed, along with an example of how I would like to see the Respect the
Ride to look. I see it as being bullet points. I think I have 22 bullet points, and they're all very short
sentences.
Some of the things that-- some of the ambiguity here is-- one of the items is large items being brought
onto a bus. It says you cannot possess or store large items on the bus. What does "large" mean? It
means something different to everybody. And the size of something being brought on the bus is not really
the issue. It's how much room is being taken up. And I think what we're trying to do here is we're trying to
be so sensitive to the less fortunate, trying to be so inclusive that, as someone else pointed out, others of
us are taking the brunt of that, and our rights are being violated in trying to be too inclusive with some
others.
Another one has to do with service animals. Again, it's very ambiguous. It says "service animals." So
does that mean that anybody who brings any animal on board and states to the driver, "this is a service
animal," that the driver has to accept that? I have heard from drivers that that's exactly what they've been
told. If they ask the question, and none of them do anymore, but if they ask the question, "is that a service
animal," the people say, oh yes, it is. And they are supposed to just allow that dog or cat or whatever-potbellied pig, skunk-- just some of the things that I've seen come on the bus-- let them on the bus. That
clearly needs to be defined.
ADA is unwavering. It's an animal that is specifically-LYNN GUISSINGER: If you could please sum it up, Mr. Lee.
EARL LEE: OK. I'm sorry. Anyway, I encourage the Board to postpone voting on this tonight. I would like
to see a 60-day postponement. I would like to see an ad hoc committee, which I would be more than
happy to serve on, to help refine this and deal with the problems as they need to be dealt with.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Lee. We're well over. Thank you. OK, who's next?
JILLIAN: Next up is Stavros Roditis.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Stavros Roditis, please state your name, and you may go ahead.
STAVROS RODITIS: Hi. My name is Stavros Roditis. I'm also with Greater Denver Transit. I just want to
say the same as everyone else. [INAUDIBLE] is a major factor in why we have as big of an issue as we
do in this city. To the point-- and the City of Denver has removed parking minimums around parcels of
land close to frequent transit. However, if you look, very few new developments are built without parking.
And by the way, structured parking costs about $50,000 per parking space.

And the reason why no new developments are built without parking, even if they could provide the price
points, is because RTD is just not seen as a viable alternative to the car, in part because of the safety
issues. And, yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Is that-- is that [INAUDIBLE]? Jillian, who's next?
JILLIAN: There are no more hands I see in the queue. We did, however, receive a long list of emails to be
added to the transcripts of tonight's evening's meeting. We have one from the ACLU Colorado letter, City
of Lone Tree letter, Colorado Coalition for the Homeless letter, CPV Auraria Neighborhood Association,
Denver Street Partnerships, Downtown Denver Partnership letter, Earl Lee letter, Fritz Junker email,
Greater Denver Transit letter, James Flattum email, LoDo District letter, Molly McKinley letter, and Root
Ed letter.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much. With no other participants in the queue, we will close
public participation at this time. We're going to take a quick break in a few minutes. But right now, our
next item is Item 8, External Entities Report. We have one report from the Citizens Advisory Committee.
Matt Appelbaum, the floor is yours.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thank you. That was interesting. Yeah, so I'll try to make this quick because you
guys are running late. So we did have a meeting earlier this month. It was not quite the meeting we
expected because we were going to take up our bylaws that a subcommittee of the CAC had worked on
for a while. And just before we got to that, your legal staff decided that maybe we needed to put a pause
in that and check in with the Board.
And I think we do need to do that. And I'll try to explain why very, very quickly, and what we might do, and
what the problems are. The CAC, as you might recall, was really set up a long, long time ago as an
advisory committee on FasTracks. And so the enacting documents really speak to that role of the CAC.
Well, of course, this is many years later. The CAC is not an advisory group on FasTracks, or at least not
solely on that. And there is kind of a disconnect now between the procedures on the books and what the
CAC is doing and would like to do and what we think you on the RTD Board would like us to do.
And so that needs to be resolved, the sooner the better as far as we're concerned. CAC has talked a few
times, including this month, about what we think our role should be. And we're pretty much in agreement
among ourselves. As I've told you many times, you've appointed great people to the CAC, remarkable
knowledge of transit and mobility and urban design and architecture and all sorts of relevant stuff. And so
we want to keep working on your strategic-planning issues, long-term vision, a lot of policy stuff, while at
the same time representing, of course, the citizens, and the districts, the users of RTD, and ourselves as
customers of RTD.
One of the problems we have, and that came up when your legal staff looked at it, is kind of a timing
issue of when items go to the CAC, which right now seems like it can only be after they have gone first to
you on the Board, which makes it rather hard for us to give you comments and recommendations if we
see things after the fact, not before the fact. That obviously isn't a problem on long-running issues. but on
things that are a little more immediate, it is a problem.
So what we'd like to do, what we would suggest if it's OK with you, is this needs to be resolved. We need
to understand what our marching orders are. We need to have some bylaws. We need to have an
updated set of rules that no longer reflect the old version of the CAC, which was just looking at
FasTracks.

We think what would be best is if there were perhaps a small subcommittee. On our end, my co-chair
John Sousa and I are happy to serve on that. On your end, you would have to pick some people, of
course. We don't think this is very difficult, honestly, a meeting at two or most, again the sooner the better
so we can resolve this. And the outcome, we hope, would be a revision, on the Board's part, of the
procedures that created the CAC, and on our part, the set of bylaws that are acceptable to you and to the
RTD legal staff.
So that's really where we're at. We didn't expect that outcome, to be honest with you. But in some ways,
maybe it's a good outcome because it will allow all of us to really sit down and figure out, a little more
carefully, what the CAC should be doing and what its procedures should be. So that's the report.
Only other thing is a thank you. We did meet. We had some one on ones with Board members. We'd like
to meet with additional Board members, if that's possible, those of you who are willing to meet with a CAC
member. That would be great. Just we only got to, I think, four or five of you over the last few months. But
it would be lovely to meet with more of you. And again, please consider setting up a subcommittee with
John and I on it so we can move ahead with this. We'd really like to get this resolved in the next few
months. so the CAC understands a little bit better what its role is. Thanks, so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Matt, and to the CAC members. And I hear two things. One of them is
to get going again on the one-on-ones, and then to talk about what a subcommittee might do or how we
move forward with your next questions. And so I will commit to working with Jack Crow, our new Board
Manager, and with the staff that work with you, Brandon and Jen Webster and others. And we'll get back
to you shortly. OK?
MATT APPELBAUM: Yeah. Thanks so much. Appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome. I understand we have one of our retirees, who wasn't here earlier,
who is here now. Martha Bembry, the Senior Manager of Safety, Security, and Compliance for 16 years.
And Leah Riley said some really nice things about you in your absence, Ms Bembry. But we're going to
ask her to briefly do it again.
[LAUGHTER]

LEAH RILEY: Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board. Again, Leah Riley, I'm the Chief
Administrative Officer. I'm joined by Martha Bembry. Martha worked for three decades in public transit. 16
years of those were with RTD. Martha helped stand up the N Line, and she was a critical part of the
implementation of all of the commuter rail lines. She is an integral part of the agency's compliance and
ensured that we closely followed regulations set forth by the Federal Railway-- Railroad Administration.
Excuse me.
The safety of commuter rail employees was paramount to every decision that she made. Martha will be
remembered for her hard work and her dedication throughout the years. And if you put as much effort into
your retirement as you did to your job, it will be successful.
MARTHA BEMBRY: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Bembry, if you'd like to say a few words, go ahead.
MARTHA BEMBRY: Thank you, everyone. My time at RTD was very educational. It was beneficial. And
the people that I worked with were phenomenal. And just, I hope they continue on and do a great job
working on with safety. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think we're doing another picture real quick.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm going to do a couple of these committee reports, and then we'll take a break for
just a few minutes. TABOR ad hoc committee report-- Director Broom, do you have anything to report?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just briefly-- we're stuck in a spot right now. We've had some
exploratory talks with the bond attorneys that work with the district to determine if there was ways we
could extend our current-- we're not currently bound by TABOR because the voters have given us some
leeway with past financial transactions. But those transactions are now being paid off. And so we're trying
to figure out if there was a way to maybe extend some of those obligations and extend the TABOR
provisions. But that, apparently, does not work.
And so what we're going to work on now is probably to come up with a ballot question for some time in
the future that would deal with expanding our various revenue sources because right now we're far too
reliant on one single source of revenue, which is the 1% sales and use tax. And while the Board has
touched on this in past years, we've never made a really big effort. And so the effort is going to be to put
together a working group to look at revenue sources and to see what we might be able to put together to
then take to the voters to ask for approval.
You know, I met Douglas Bruce many years ago at a Colorado Municipal League meeting. And he sat
right next to me during a long meeting. And he had a big shoe box. And in that shoe box, he had
hundreds and hundreds of index cards. And it was amazing the detail that he went to. He probably asked
me 2,000 questions during that meeting about what was being discussed by CML. Because let's face it,
the nomenclature that we use in government is far different than it is in the private sector. And so he was
just trying to educate himself.
But it's amazing what one person can do, if they're really, really engaged in doing that. And so to his
credit, the fact that we have to vote on any debt that's issued is a good thing. You have to vote on any
increases in taxation. That's a good thing. But the bad part that we have to deal with is the formulas that
are in there, that when you have a really bad recession year, and your revenues are knocked down, then
you have a very small base from which to grow on.
And so it may take you five or six years to get back. And in the meantime, you have to refund those extra
monies. And so it just doesn't make any sense, the way the current law is set up. And I guess 83% of the
jurisdictions in Colorado have debruced. And so there's a precedent for that.
So I guess my advice would be, don't give up. Let's take another shot at it. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. [LAUGHS] Thank you, Director Broom. The Audit Committee, is there a report
committee, Chair Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: The Audit Committee will meet on July 7 at 1 PM.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Good report. I think we'll go ahead and take the break here and come back
with you, Director Tisdale. We're going to take a 10-minute break. We'll be back at 7:15, please. Thank
you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

Part 2
LYNN GUISSINGER: For the longer wait. We are at item 12, the Finance and Planning Committee report.
Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have anything to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The minutes are in your packet. We hope you will
approve them. And our next meeting is on July 11. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Operations and Safety Committee report, Committee Chair Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, we met on June 7. We had a safety performance review that was very informative.
And you can find that information on the website in the meeting information. We also had Carl Greene
and Gabe Christie give a great report on bus stops and customer amenities.
And that's about it. We're going to meet next on Wednesday, July 12, at the same time and the same
location.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Committee Chair Davidson, are you still there?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Apologies that I can't be with you via video. The
Performance Committee met twice in June, once on June 5. We unanimously passed the recommended
action on tonight's agenda for the customer surveys contract with ETC Institute, not to exceed $984,550
for five years. That's three base years with two option years.
That same meeting, the committee also received a helpful and thorough presentation from RTD Chief
People Officer Charlene Pileggi. Ms. Pileggi walked the committee through an overview of the concept of
a compensation philosophy and discussed considerations, factors, types, components, and samples of
various philosophies. This included a discussion on pros and cons of various approaches. We also took a
look at the Gallagher report and those areas in the General Manager and CEO compensation analysis
that were found to be lagging, matching, and leading the market. The compensation-- or, I'm sorry, the
Performance Committee then agreed to take the presentation into consideration for further discussion at
future meetings.

We again met on June 26. The majority of that second meeting was spent in executive session for
consideration of personnel matters regarding compensation performance appraisal and employment
agreement with General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson.
What we're doing now is weighing the inputs and discussions we have had throughout the month of June
to then meet again on July 17, 2023. At this meeting, the committee will consider recommending a
compensation philosophy to the Board of Directors. Committee members have shared feedback
regarding important considerations to weigh in the creation of a compensation philosophy. And we
encourage other Board members to please reach out to us on the committee, as well as to the Board
Office, to share any ideas and priorities they have.
At our July 17, 2023, meeting, which will take place at 8:30 AM, we will also be discussing improvements
to the performance evaluation process. Thank you, Madam Chair. That concludes my report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Davidson. Let's see. I believe that is all of our committee
reports. The Board and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. I'd like to note that the
June 26 Performance Committee minutes were not included in the packet, as that meeting occurred after
the packet was published. But they will be included in the July packet for approval. Are there any
corrections to any of the minutes?
Unless there's objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, may I please have a motion to
approve the minutes for the following meetings, May 31, 2023 Board meeting, June 5, 2023 Performance
Committee meeting, June 6, 2023 Finance and Planning Committee, June 7, 2023 Operations and Safety
Committee, June 22, 2023 Executive Committee. Is there a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe I heard Director Tisdale as the movement, and Director Broom as the
second. Is there any discussion on this motion? All right, I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on
this action?
And I forgot to mention that Director Ruscha has joined us some time ago. So we now have 14 Board
members here. With 14 yes votes, we have-- and 0-- and I'm sorry? Oh.
AUDIENCE: We have 12.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have 12 people here voting now. With 12 yes votes and 0 no votes and 3
non-present, 2 of whom are just coming back in, the motion passes.
All right, the Chair's report. I have-- just I want to update you on several matters we're working on or
discussed at the Executive Committee and that are going on. First, I want to give a big welcome to Jack
Kroll. Jack comes to us as a former Chair of the CU Board of Regents. And I can say even in his first
three weeks, he's been a big help, brings a lot of wealth of knowledge and energy to the job. Jack, would
you like to take a minute or two to address the Board?
JACK KROLL: Sure. I don't know if the microphone is working here, but I learned how to project some
time ago. It's truly an honor to be here. This is the opportunity of a lifetime to continue my passion for
public service.

I have a lot of love and compassion for elected boards. I've been through what you've experienced. I
hope to bring a lot to the table to help this Board and the important mission it serves to use for [? rest. ?]
I want to give a huge shout-out to the Board office staff, especially Tai-Shrae, for all of the work they've
done-[APPLAUSE]
And if you haven't heard from me already, I'll be reaching out to set up some time to meet each of the
directors. Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I see you're waiting to speak. Is that after the Chair's report, Director
Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I want to speak to the fact that we all want to say congratulations to the Chair
before she gives her report on her recent wedding.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. I appreciate it. Yeah.
[APPLAUSE]
Thanks. All right, well, I have a second celebration that is maybe not quite as big for me. But the
Department of Transportation approved the full $25 million requested for completion of Highway 119
project. Boulder County led on the application with strong support from RTD, CDOT, and others.
It will include bus queue jumps, safety improvements at intersections, and other improvements to reduce
travel times. And the $25 million essentially completes the funding needed for the project. So thank you
all.
Let's see. We've had a question come up about how Director requests for documents should be handled.
In the past, for larger requests and documents, the Board Office would file a CORA request to make it
easier to track.
And this came up. I think there was a bit of a misunderstanding that the Director needed to file a CORA
request. That wasn't what was happening. The Board Office would do that. And I worked with Jack Kroll
and Melanie Snyder on this issue. And what I can say is, everyone's committed to getting directors the
information requested as quickly as possible. And Ms. Snyder and Mr. Kroll are working through the best
way to manage that.
At this point, a related issue that's come up a number of times now is around Director requests for
information from staff. And as Chair, I've been working with others here to make sure we have some
processes in place to get Directors the information they need while still being respectful of staff's time and
bandwidth. Staff have work plans, KPIs, and a lot to do to achieve our mission of providing transit to the
region. You've heard some of the challenges that we're dealing with tonight.
So when requests are sent to various people in the agency or a number of times, they can cause a lot of
extra work and some consternation. So we have several suggestions. One of them is that now that we
have our Board office fully staffed, we're requesting that all correspondence and requests go to the Board
office. Jack Kroll and our great Board team will handle those requests. And we'll be certain to respond or
include you in the response if your request is from a constituent, and you would like to be included.

That said, our Board team is also busy. So I'm asking you to be respectful in choosing your requests. We
expect in the near future to begin reviewing the Board operating guidelines, because they require that we
review them annually, and we need to get on that. I think we're a little behind.
There are also two resolutions that discuss the amount of time-- staff time a Director should require. And
these may be part of that review. These were from prior years.
Second step that we're taking, the Board office has a list of several remaining topics for onboarding of
new Board members. And I've asked the Board team to schedule those. I think the first one has been
scheduled at this point for Finance. That schedule will go out to everyone, so it will be a place where you
can take your questions. And all of you are welcome if you want to dive in on a particular topic.
And thirdly, Jack Kroll has brought a good suggestion, which is that we set work plans for the committees
at the beginning of the year, typically. And it would not be at the beginning of the year now, but might be.
Since we're not changing any of our Board members next year, it might be something we look at for the
next 18 months. And obviously, there would be additions to these. But staff knows the order and timing of
a lot of things-- the budget, the mid-term financial plan, a number of other things that would be coming to
the Board.
And so what I'm hoping is that the Executive Committee, the chairs of the Standing Committees, and our
GM CEO and Board staff can work together to start to form some committee work plans that they would
take to those committees and to the Board. And it would give us a guide to the committees' work and, I
think, help us to more efficiently realize our goals-- for instance, some of our goals coming out of the
Board retreat. I think Finance and Planning is working on some of the diversifying of funds.
Another one we talked about was sustainability. There's a lot going on right now. But if we have a plan for
when we would be focusing on a sustainability plan or whatever it is we want to do, then it gives people
an idea of where to bring ideas.
So that's it for me today. I'm happy to answer any questions or listen to feedback now, or whenever it's
convenient for any of you.
AUDIENCE: Good job.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, thank you. [LAUGHS] OK. And now we have the GM CEO's report. Ms.
Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. And good evening, Chair Guissinger, members of the
Board, and to all that are assembled, both here in person and virtually. I'm Debra Johnson, RTD's
General Manager and CEO. And this evening, I will share with you the following information centered
around our strategic priorities.
Regarding community value, I will discuss meetings and events in which I have engaged since the last
Board meeting that was held on May 31, including a meeting with the General Manager of the Front
Range Passenger Rail District, a meeting in which I engaged with leadership, APTA participants
conducting research for their capstone project, a professional development seminar hosted by the San
Antonio chapter of WTS in which I served as a keynote speaker, my participation in the Northwest
Conference Amalgamated Transit Union.

Also in relation to community value, I will share information regarding both Denver City Council
Committee meeting and a meeting of the full City Council in which RTD-related matters were discussed.
Additionally, a meeting with business leaders representing the retail and restaurant locations in the
Denver Union Station historic building, as well as a meeting with Denver City Councilmember Elect
Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez, my participation in a state task force regarding transportation modernization.
Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss the Zero Fare for Better Air kickoff event at Denver Union
Station. And speaking to employee ownership, I will touch on staff's flexible response to the NBA Finals,
as well as the festivities following the Denver Nuggets championship victory earlier this month.
AUDIENCE: Woo-hoo.
[LAUGHTER]
DEBRA JOHNSON: Before I commence with the substance of my report, I will first take the opportunity to
address hiring statistics recently cited in a Denver Post article published on Sunday, June 25. The article
itself, as well as individual responses to this article garnered via social media, call into question the
veracity of hiring statistics reported by me to the Board during the January 2023 Board meeting.
The People Power figures I cited in my General Manager's report delivered during the January 2023
Board meeting accurately reflected the data available at the time through Workday, which serves as the
agency's human resource management system software platform.
Next month, during the Operations and Safety Committee meeting on July 12, Chief People Officer
Charlene Pileggi will be presenting an update regarding the agency's People Power, including hires,
separations, and vacancy rates for certain front-line positions. Should Directors have any further
questions on this matter, please do not hesitate in contacting me directly.
Moving on to my report as outlined with the strategic priorities, community value-- on Tuesday, June 6, I
met with Andy Karsian, the General Manager of the Front Range Passenger Rail District, to discuss
alignment around timelines relative to the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study and the Front
Range Passenger Rail Service Development Plan, as well as mutual presentations to our respective
boards that we anticipate taking place in the fall of this year.
On Friday, November-- excuse me. I don't know why I said November. Perhaps I'm tired. On Friday, June
9, I was invited to address the Northwest Conference of the Amalgamated Transit Union, which was held
in Denver. Twenty locals across the United States and Canada participated in the conference, in which
participants engaged in discussions and informal sessions regarding matters from federal safety rules,
workplace health, safety issues, and alternatively fueled vehicles.
During my remarks, I spoke about potential legislation to enhance front-line employee safety, the Joint
Labor Management Safety Committee and alignment with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, RTD's
collaboration with ATU to bolster the union pension plan, de-escalation training and the Employee
Experience Committee created at RTD to enable discussions regarding workplace and quality-of-life
matters, several of which you heard from public commenters this evening.
On Wednesday, June 14, I was interviewed by participants in the Leadership APTA program, whose
research project is focused on gentrification, specifically how transit responds to the geographically
changing needs of the community and what options are made available to them. In conducting their

research, the participants are working to identify effective policies and strategies the transit agencies can
implement to mitigate or address these effects and support the needs of those being displaced.
For those who may not be familiar with Leadership APTA, the American Public Transportation Association
offers this transit industry program to develop and support promising industry leaders. Over the years,
program alumni have made outstanding and visionary contributions to APTA, the industry, and their own
organizations and communities.
On Friday, June 16, I participated in a professional development seminar hosted by the San Antonio
chapter of the Women's Transportation Seminar, during which I presented a keynote address regarding
the importance of leaders cultivating a kitchen cabinet of trusted voices to serve as their sounding boards,
support networks, and advisors.
RTD was invited to participate in two Denver City Council-related meetings this month. The first was a
meeting of the Citizens' Council-- excuse me, the City Council's Business Arts Workforce and Aviation
Services Committee, commonly referred to as the BUS committee, on Wednesday, June 7, in which I was
invited to provide supplemental remarks following Denver International Airport CEO regarding creative
solutions and mitigating pain points for airport employees. During the meeting, the committee
unanimously approved the creation of a master intergovernmental agreement among concessionaires at
Denver International Airport, allowing RTD to establish a program to expand access to annual transit
passes for employees of airport businesses.
I also shared information with the committee regarding the Zero Fare for Better Air initiative and Respect
the Ride, as well as potential changes to the fare structure following the Board's consideration of the
system-wide fare study and equity analysis that will come before this body in July.
During the second meeting with the full Denver City Council on Tuesday, June 20, the Council adopted a
proclamation strongly supportive of RTD's proposed Zero Fare for Youth program. I addressed the
Council to provide parameters on how this program could be effectuated and Thank. Council Member
Amanda Sawyer, who sponsored the proclamation. Director Rosenthal and Government Relations Officer
Michael Davies were also in attendance. I am pleased to report that Council members spoke favorably of
the program and its potentially far-reaching impacts to families and young scholars throughout the greater
Denver area.
I would be remiss not to note that on Thursday, June 22, Federal Transit Administration officials approved
RTD's request to expand the pilot beyond the six-month period permitted under current federal
regulations to a 12-month period, which would run through the 2023-2024 school year and conclude
August 31, 2024. The Board will have an opportunity to consider the approval of the Zero Fare for Youth
program as part of the larger discussion surrounding the system-wide Fair City and Equity analysis during
the July meeting cycle.
Also in regard to proposed Zero Fare for Youth program, I received a letter of support on June 26 from
the RootED Denver nonprofit organization, which was mentioned in earlier comments this evening,
relative to it being part of the transcript. This correspondent stated that RootED is committed to ensuring
every child in Denver has the opportunity and support to achieve scholastic and career success. The
letter also states that the organization is optimistic that the Zero Fare for Youth program, if executed
properly, will address the current inequities of school transportation affecting public school students in the
Denver area.

On Monday, June 5, I and Dr. Joel Fitzgerald, Chief of Transit Police and Emergency Management, and
Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, met with representatives from City
Street Investors. The purpose of this meeting was to discuss ongoing efforts to restore and maintain a
welcoming transit environment at Denver Union Station and the surrounding area, as well as to discuss
how City Street could support RTD's efforts. For the Board's reference, City Street Investors are involved
in restaurant and retail development, including businesses located in the historic Denver Union Station
building.
On Thursday, June 8, I and Government Relations Officer Michael Davies met with Denver City
Councilmember Elect Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez for a wide-ranging discussion of agency programs and
initiatives, including the system-wide fare study and equity analysis, the expanded Zero Fare for Better Air
initiative, the proposed Zero Fare for Youth program, and Respect the Ride.
And just yesterday, I received a communique from the Commissioner of Education and the Colorado
Department of Education, who has appointed me as a member of the Colorado School of Transportation
Modernization Task Force as a representative for public transportation providers. The task force, which
was created by Senate Bill 2394, is being established to make findings and recommendations to improve
public school transportation. The task force will prepare, publish, and share its findings with the Education
Committees of the General Assembly, the Colorado State Board of Education, and the Governor by
December 1, 2024.
Regarding customer excellence, on Thursday, June 22, RTD hosted an event in the Train Hall at Denver
Union Station to officially announce the expansion of the 2023 Zero Fare for Better Air initiative. This
year's Zero Fare offering commences on Saturday, July 31, and runs through Monday, August 31.
Guest speakers included Governor Jared Polis, Senator Faith Winter, Representative Jennifer Bacon,
Lakewood Mayor and Chair of the Metro Mayors Caucus Adam Paul, Executive Director of the Colorado
Energy Office Will Toor, Kay Kelly from the Office of Innovation in the Colorado Department of
Transportation, and Denver Regional Council of Government Executive Director Doug Rex, two members
of the Executive Committee, First Chair Peggy Catlin, and Treasurer Dishell also were in attendance and
participated.
And lastly, in relation to the strategic priority of employer ownership, my thanks and deep appreciation to
all RTD employees who were able to quickly and deftly pivot to accommodate the service changes,
detours, and disruptions throughout Denver following the NBA Finals, culminating in the Denver Nuggets'
first NBA championship victory. My thanks also to RTD PD, who collaborated with Denver Police
Department to coordinate efforts to ensure there were minimal impacts to transit service delivery
throughout the Nuggets' final run and the ensuing championship celebrations.
Tens of thousands of Nuggets fans were able to attend the parade as well as the rally to commemorate
this historic occasion. And thanks to the front-line employees who truly make lives better through
connections. And with that, Madam Chair, I conclude my remarks, and I yield the floor. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Anybody have questions or comments for Ms. Johnson?
Dr. Rosenthal? Sorry.
[LAUGHTER]

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson.
That was quite a long list of things that you have been working on. And I just have to commend you and
your entire team and all the staff and officers in this room and in RTD's organization for all the hard work,
the dedication, and sacrifice that you have.
I think in that long list, I'm not to point out-- reiterate all of them. But I think there are some things that
need to be repeated, because they are tremendous, big successes, and much as we have issues that
we're working on that are difficult.
For example, the two months of Zero Fare for Better Air, and that is huge. Your office, yourself, everyone
in the organization, working with the legislature and the Governor's office on that. The Zero Fare for
Youth, that is also tremendous. That is a lot of conversations nationally, with federal government.
But I think bringing it a little bit more down to earth, too, is the RTD passes for the small business at
Denver International Airport. That is something that has been worked on, proposed, thought about,
discussed. Then it was like, oh, what are we doing again? And you-- actually, you and your team working
with the airport, working with those concessionaires, making sure that those workers who serve so well at
the airport, make sure that they have cheaper fares for their passes, but also the small businesses that
struggle to purchase those passes.
And that is your office that did that. So I think kudos to you, to your staff, to everybody here at RTD for
doing that. I know sometimes maybe you're buffeted by forces in our country and our community. And
that is difficult, and certainly sometimes, maybe even some on the Board. And I'm sorry if even myself
sometime, if I've annoyed you or what have you. But I think-- I just want you to know you're appreciated,
and thank you for your work.
[APPLAUSE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you very much, Director Rosenthal,
for your comments. I know this was a big issue for you as it related to Denver International Airport. But
trust and believe, it was a group of people working on this-- Michael Davies working with staff at the
airport Theresa Rinker with our sales program. And I know I'm leaving out other people as well.
But trust and believe, our team works hard, and they just need to be supportive. And I am their staunch
champion. And so that gives me great pride to sit here before you and to be able to say that because
oftentimes, they don't feel supported, as you heard this evening. So thank you very much for taking the
time to acknowledge their work. And on behalf of all of them, I say thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Dr. Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I just want to concur with regard to the EcoPasses for the Denver Airport
workers. The article in the paper made it sound like it was all Denver Airport that scored the big win. They
didn't do it alone. And I know, as Director Rosenthal has just stated, that you and your team were the
impetus behind that. Thanks again for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Item 18 on our agenda is unanimous consent agenda. There's one item
tonight listed. On that item is the Community Value and Customer Excellence Surveys Contract Award,
for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a

contract with ETC Institute for the provision of community and customer surveys. The contract is for three
base years, with two additional one-year options exercisable at RTD's discretion.
The total not-to-exceed cost for all five years would be $984,550. If anyone has a change or has
questions on this item, please feel free to advise me at this time. And I will, of course, be happy to pull it
from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration as a recommended action.
Seeing no one, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Broom as the movement and Director Williams as the second. Are
there any no votes on this action? With 14 yes votes and 0 no votes and 0 abstentions and one person
absent, the motion passes.
There are three recommended actions on the agenda tonight, listed in section 19 A, B, C, and D-- no,
excuse me, B, C, and D. If the Board would indulge me, I'd like to move the current item C, the State
Lobbying Services Contract Amendment up so that it is the new item B, since we have other items that
will probably take a lot longer. Any objections?
OK. The first action is B, the State Lobbying Services Contract Amendment for the Board of Directors to
authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute an amendment to exercise the two
one-year options to extend the current State Lobbying Services Contract with Brandeberry McKenna
Public Affairs through July 27, 2025, for a total cost not to exceed $250,000. Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek is the movement and Director Williams is the second. Mr. Davies,
did you have a brief presentation, or you just want to take questions if there are any?
MR. DAVIES: Yeah, I have no formal presentation. I'm just happy to take any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, are there any questions or comment, any discussion on this motion? Director
Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I'm excited to see this. And hopefully, this will be approved.
BBMK has been there for us, has saved our bacon many times, talked many a legislator off the cliff, and
has really helped us move our agenda forward. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that that is the case. And I think you would support that, too, wouldn't you,
Mr. Davies?
MR. DAVIES: Absolutely.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Great presentation for tonight.
[LAUGHTER]

So all right, are there any no votes on this motion? I assume you're under Director Buzek. All right. With
14 yes votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions, the motion passes.
All right. Before we get into our second action for the code of conduct, we need to take another fiveminute break, please. We will keep this one to five minutes. And then we will move forward. Thanks. We'll
be back at 8:01.

Part 3
LYNN GUISSINGER: One minute, and we will start again. Please take your seats.
OK, calling the Board meeting back to order, please. The second recommended action for us tonight is
item C, 2023 Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy Revisions, for the Board of Directors to
adopt revisions to the Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have Director Tisdale moving, and Director Buzek as the second. Just to
be clear, the Executive Committee tabled this item to tonight. So this is the original set of revisions. And
we will be the presentation and then some staff changes after. I see two speakers waiting. We were going
to-SPEAKER: I was going to divide the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, great. OK, Director Dishell.
JACK KROLL: We have a-LYNN GUISSINGER: What's that?
JACK KROLL: --it's like the presentation, then we need the motion [? for likes, ?] and then we'll divide the
question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. All right, staff presentation. Is that you, Ms. Johnson, and Mr. Summers?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. If we can have the presentation brought up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Point of personal privilege. If we're going to divide the question, is it not more
appropriate to have each presentation accompany each separate question?
SPEAKER: No.
SPEAKER: No, I think it's an attribute presentation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it seems like time-wise, we might-- I mean, I guess--

SPEAKER: Let's just hear the presentation first.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Snyder, is this a-- the question is, should we divide it after we-- but I think the
preference is to just do one presentation and then divide it, if you're OK with that. Sorry, Jack.
JACK KROLL: If it is acceptable to Director Dishell, the plan was to have a presentation, and then
Director Williams will make a motion to adopt the changes as provided by staff. And then we were
intending to divide the question at that point.
LYNN GUISSINGER: To accept your motion.
JACK KROLL: Oh, yes. So the intended plan here is, we'll take the presentation now. Then Director
Williams will make a motion to adopt the staff changes. Assuming that's seconded, which we assume it
will be, then we were planning on dividing the question at that point.
BOBBY DISHELL: It seems like you'd be amending something before dividing it, and then you'd be
dividing it post-amendment. Is that correct?
JACK KROLL: The Board may adopt whatever plan it wants. This is the recommendation from staff. If you
are making a motion, and you are recognized to divide the question at this time, it's not a debatable
motion. So, Chair, do you recognize the question or the Director to divide the motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. If you-- I mean, I think that the presentation is all one piece. So I think it will
go smoother, and we'll get out of here sooner, if we can do the staff presentation and then divide it, if
you're OK with that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, that's fine. I just would also like to reiterate that our goal here is not to get out.
Our goal here is to have a public deliberation. And it sounds like there's a lot of folks who are not as
interested in that, my fellow Board members who are talking out of turn. And so that's fine with me. But
our whole purpose here is not to get out of here tonight. It's to have a public deliberation on the items.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Pardon me, but I think that's taking it a little out of context. My point is that we have
this plan, and it has a single presentation. If you want to divide it now, I can ask if we can divide the
presentation. I'm not trying to cut off debate. I'm just trying to run the meeting efficiently. And-BOBBY DISHELL: That's fine. We can proceed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We're not trying to cut off any debate, OK? So everyone's on the same page we'll
hear the presentation, there'll be a motion by Director Williams to adopt staff changes. And then we'll
entertain a motion to divide the question.
SPEAKER: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's move forward with the staff-- Director Ruscha, did you have something? No,
OK. With the staff presentation at this point, please.

SPEAKER: He's working on the-LYNN GUISSINGER: Presentation, OK. Great. Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Once again, Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO. And joining me this evening for the presentation is Stuart Summers, who serves as
our Chief Communication and Engagement Officer. Next slide, please.
During this presentation, I will give a snapshot of both the Administrative Code of Conduct as well as
staff's recommended revisions to the code, which has been rebranded as Respect the Ride. There will be
more on that momentarily.
Mr. Summers will prevent information regarding the robust public outreach campaign, as well as the
feedback received from customers, community members, and RTD employees. And lastly, I will round out
the presentation by presenting a brief overview of the service suspension policy. And lastly, we will come
back and then entertain whatever direction which the Board Chair provides.
One thing's for certain. I'm sure you have all read the report that encapsulated the feedback that was
received and contained in the Board packet. I do respectfully ask to hold any questions and comments
that you may have until after the end of the presentation so that everyone has an opportunity to garner
context. Thank you. Next slide.
So now we're going to turn to the agency's existing Administrative Code of Conduct. Next slide.
So as the Board is aware, RTD's statutorily defined purpose is to develop, maintain, and operate a mass
transportation system for the benefit of inhabitants of the district. Being a recipient of public funding, RTD
must ensure equal access to its services. But moreover, as the Chief Executive of this agency, it is right
and just. Hence, it is incumbent upon the agency to ensure, to the extent possible, that a welcoming
transit environment as well as a workplace are provided for all customers and employees, respectively.
In providing and maintaining that welcoming transit environment, RTD must also ensure that individuals
utilize the agency's vehicles and facilities for their intended purposes. To that end, the agency's code of
conduct, referred to as Respect the Ride, outlines a framework of acceptable behaviors and guidelines.
Next slide, please.
Next slide, please. Thank you. No-- right there. Thank you.
So RTD first implemented a formalized Customer Code of Conduct approximately 6-and-1/2 years ago in
December of 2016. The agency revisited the Code of Conduct during the early days of the COVID-19
pandemic. The Board adopted the most recent iteration of the code in July of 2020.
Four months ago, staff brought recommended revisions to the Code of Conduct for the Board's
consideration during the Operations and Safety Committee meeting on February 15, 2023. Next slide,
please.
Following the initial adoption of the code on February 15, 2023 by the Operations and Safety Committee
on a vote of 5 to 2, the Board requested that staff conduct a public engagement process to solicit
additional feedback on the recommended revisions. As you may recall, after a robust discussion at the
Board Executive Committee on February 22, this item was tabled to a date certain of June 27-- hence,
here we are-- with a corresponding request for a thorough and comprehensive engagement process.

Prior to the launch of the public engagement process, the Customer Code of Conduct was rebranded as
Respect the Ride. The feedback period opened for 60 days beginning on Monday, April 3, and concluded
on Friday, June 2, at 11:59 PM, during which time staff launched a comprehensive media strategy and
engaged with customers, community members, and RTD employees across the myriad of events and
through engagement surveys, the responses to which Mr. Summers will share in just a moment. Next
slide, please.
Rebranded as Respect the Ride, the guidelines contain their end focus on RTD's provision of a safe,
convenient, enjoyable experience for all customers, with an emphasis on respect, respect being one of
RTD's organizational values defined in the agency's strategic plan as the ideal that we will demonstrate
respect and integrity in all our interactions with both our colleagues and community members, while the
code is intended to continue to deter illegal activities and discourage disruptive behaviors. Next slide,
please.
The revisions simplify the existing guidelines and emphasize an expectation of respect for fellow
employees, customers, RTD vehicles, and facilities. Next slide, please.
Focusing on an expectation of common courtesy, education is key in establishing and maintaining a
welcoming transit environment. As such, encouraging customers to respect the ride will always be the first
step in encouraging appropriate behaviors at stations and stops and aboard transit vehicles. For
individuals who may be in need of Public Health and Safety resources, RTD deploys a professional
support team to assist those individuals. The team is comprised of third-party mental health care
clinicians and an outreach coordinator focused on unhoused individuals. And in areas where the agency
does not have the resources or expertise to assist those individuals, RTD can provide information
regarding available community resources.
I cannot stress enough that enforcement of the code is limited to situations where a more direct response
is warranted beyond education or resource assistance. Verbal or written warnings are often effective
tools. And sworn police officers or contracted transit security personnel engage with contacted individuals
in a fair and reasonable manner. Next slide, please.
Now, shifting focus to the proposed Respect the Ride revisions-- going forward to the next slide, please-staff is recommending 17 rewrites and four removals from the current 49 sections currently found in the
code, with the goal of simplifying the existing code, eliminating redundancies, and emphasizing the
expectation of mutual respect. The revisions were shared with customers, community members,
stakeholders, and employees throughout the two-month engagement process. Next slide, please.
So going forward to the next slide, with that, I will yield the microphone to Chief Communications and
Engagement Officer Stuart Summers to share information regarding the public engagement campaign
and the resulting feedback. Mr. Summers, the floor is yours.
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board. It's my pleasure to talk a little bit
about the engagement campaign and then the results of our feedback survey. As you all received a
couple of weeks ago, we had about a 100-page summary report that was prepared with all the-- collected
all the information that we received.
In March 2023, RTD staff developed a comprehensive outreach and engagement strategy to garner the
feedback that we were asked to collect. During that two-month campaign, we utilized a combination of
assets, including earned media, which is public relations, owned media, which would be things like our

website and other assets, and paid media, like paid advertising on social media and other digital
platforms.
All campaign materials were available in English and Spanish. And we had a full internal employee-facing
communications suite that we utilized. Next slide.
A few highlights that I want to point out that I think are worth noting, we have more than 31,000 social
media impressions, 2,000 engagements. This would include things like likes, retweets, comments on the
posts. We garnered 519,000 total impressions across digital advertising.
Spanish-language campaign on social media garnered 682 click-throughs to the Respect the Ride
campaign website. And the QR code which was used on our vehicles was scanned 149 times to learn
more information about the Code of Conduct. And that's just a few of the highlights. Next slide.
So getting to the feedback survey, this is designed to be a listening tool to gather information about
perceptions, opinions, and attitudes. It is not an intercept survey of customers. It's important to note that
this is not a statistical representation of RTD's customers as a whole, community members, the Metro
area, or RTD's employees. It is meant to provide individual perspectives and comments that were
collected.
Respondents were limited to one response per device. And we put in the survey skip logic to allow for
better data collection to ensure that respondents were only required to answer questions that they felt
were applicable to them or they felt comfortable answering. Next slide.
Overall, through this feedback survey, we had 1,683 respondents. All respondents were required or
asked to identify their connection to RTD. Of that, 913 identified as customers, 301 RTD employees, 136
as community, and 333 skipped this question to identify which category they fell into. As you'll note in this
presentation in the top right-hand corner, it corresponds with a page number in the summary report if you
have additional questions, and you want to follow along. Next slide.
One of the questions we asked was, how familiar are you with RTD's existing code of conduct that was
approved in 2020, as GM CEO outlined a few minutes ago. Of the 913 customers, about half were
somewhat or very familiar. Less than that, community members, 40.8% were somewhat or very familiar.
And 81.4% of RTD employees were somewhat or very familiar. This points to a need for more education
and signage and information about the Code of Conduct, with less than half of individuals feeling that they
were somewhat or very familiar with the Code of Conduct. Next slide.
Another question, how much do you agree with the following statement, the proposed changes to RTD's
Code of Conduct support a safer environment for customers. Of the 913 individuals that identified as
customers, 77.6%, or 685 individuals, somewhat or strongly agree with that statement. 76.5% of
community members somewhat or strongly agree. And 79.2%, or about 225 RTD employees that filled
out the survey, somewhat or strongly agree with that statement. Next slide.
If the prohibited activities or behaviors you observed were less common or prevented completely, would
you use RTD services more often? Of the 913 customers, 80.6% indicated that they would use RTD
services more often. Of the community members, 85% indicated that they would use RTD services more
often. That was 108 individuals, for a total number of 840 respondents indicating that they would use the
system more than they currently are. Next slide.

One of the questions we wanted to ask was about the prohibited activities and behaviors that have been
observed in the last six months by the respondent. So this is for customers' top five observed behaviors.
Number one, littering-- 667 customers indicated that littering was the number one thing that they
observed. Individuals were allowed to select all that apply.
Number two, loud music, 621 individuals, for 68%. Illegal drug use was number three at 66%, or 603
individuals indicating that as the top three. Next slide.
For community members top five observed-- and, again, able to select multiple options. Number one,
littering at 66.2%. Number two, illegal drug use at 61.8%, followed by fare-related violations at 56.6%.
And then number four and five rounding out, smoking marijuana or cigarettes and threats or harassment.
Next slide.
When we asked this question to RTD employees of which prohibited activities or behaviors they've
observed and were able to select all that apply, the number one, at nearly 80%, was illegal drug use. 240
employees indicated that. Number two, littering, at 79.1%. And then fare-related violations rounding out
the top three at 77.1%. Next slide.
Another question we asked was, of the prohibited activities and behaviors, which do you feel is the most
important issue for RTD to address? And respondents were limited to one response. They could only
select one option. Number one for customers was illegal drug use. 347 of the 913 customers indicated
illegal drug use.
And I will note that you'll see four down on that in the not listed. Under not listed, there were 70 that
added additional context. And about a third of those said all of the above or some sort of variation of all.
Next slide.
When this question was asked of community members, the number one also was illegal drug use, 43 of
the 136 total respondents at 38.7%. And similarly, under the not listed, about a third of individuals
indicated in their open-ended response something of all of the above or all options. Next slide.
When this question was asked of RTD employees, number one again, illegal drug use. 124 of the 303
respondents indicated illegal drug use. And additionally, under the not listed, approximately about a third
also indicated all of the above or unable to select just one option. Next slide.
One question that we asked specifically to RTD employees was, please tell us how much you agree with
the following statement. The proposed changes to RTD's Code of Conduct supports a safer environment
for employees. With this question, 72.4% somewhat or strongly agree that it does support a safer
environment for employees. Next slide.
And then to the open-ended responses, which was a bulk of the summary report, we received 531 written
comments from customers, 66 open-ended written comments from community members, and 146 from
employees. And all of those comments are included in the summary report and the public documents.
And I will say that staff did not make any edits, any changes, or any alterations to any of those public
comments.
One last thing I want to point out is, we went through the open comments, read through all of them,
obviously. We tried to figure out if there were some categories, terms, or topics that were the most
frequently addressed. For customers, the number one topic that received open feedback were fare or
fare-related comments and topics. For community, it was issues around safety or being safe. And for

employees, it, again, was fare, fare-related violations were what most of those open-ended comments
were about. And with that, I'll yield the floor back to Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Summers. So before concluding, I would be remiss not to
briefly summarize the service suspension policy that accompanies Respect the Ride. So if we could move
forward to the next slide, please.
So the policy, just to be clear, is an administrative tool utilized to promote a welcoming transit
environment, both for customers and employees. For customers who do not Respect the Ride, the policy
establishes suspension periods based on the severity of the offense. The more serious or the more
frequent a person's violations, the longer the person's access to facilities and services are suspended.
For example, a one-year minimum suspension is warranted for an individual committing a crime of
violence. To reiterate, for RTD's purposes, this is an administrative, rather than a criminal, matter and is
intended to address behavior that is detrimental to a welcoming transit environment. Anyone receiving a
suspension is given notice of the reason for the suspension and is afforded the opportunity to appeal the
suspension. During the appeal process, relevant information related to the incident or incidents that
warranted the suspension, as well as any mitigating or aggravating factors, will be taken into
consideration.
So with that, that concludes our formal presentation, Madam Chair. And I would welcome any questions
or comments from the Board at this time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. We will go to discussion here in just a minute. I think I'm getting this in
the right order. Director Williams, do you have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I've been waiting very patiently. I move to amend the Code of Conduct and
Service Suspension Policy by adopting the staff's proposed changes dated April 3 that are outlined in
pages 152 through 156 of the Board meeting packet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have a second?
SPEAKER: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. And then do we have a-- I don't know if this is Director Dishell or a
Director Ruscha motion to divide the question.
SPEAKER: It says we need to get a vote first, right?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No. No, not for a motion to divide, apparently.
SPEAKER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: I move to divide the question as follows. A, for the Board of Directors to adopt
revisions to the Service Suspension Policy. And B, for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the
Code of Conduct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, is there a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will second that, Director Ruscha.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha has seconded it. And my understanding is that this is not a
debatable item. So it's a matter that goes directly to vote. Is there anybody who would vote no on this
motion to divide? OK, seeing none, the motion carries with 14 yes votes and 0 no votes and one person
absent. All right.
We have a motion to-- a motion and a second to amend to adopt the staff's changes as of the April 3
version. I believe it's April 3. Do we have discussion?
JACK KROLL: Speaker, we're going to discuss the Code of Conduct first and then the suspension policy
second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. This is on the Code of Conduct. Any discussion on that item? I believe we
have some amendments. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is more of a question. Are we allowed-- generally,
when we have a staff presentation, we can ask for follow up, or we can ask clarifying questions. Is this
where we could do that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's for now. You're welcome to ask questions and raise comments and any
other discussion.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. So actually, I was wondering if staff could walk us through. We have some
additions to the code. If they could just briefly explain the rationale for those.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, do you have some specific questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, I think there are four new rules, and just understanding the rationale behind
them would be helpful before, I think, we discuss-SPEAKER: That's why I love being here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that Ms. Johnson? Or whose-DEBRA JOHNSON: So there's no confusion, Madam Chair and Director Ruscha, if you could specify
exactly what package page you're referring to so nothing's left to ambiguity, I would appreciate that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe that the matters at issue, the chart that shows the old version and the
newer version is 152 to 165 or something like that.
SPEAKER: 152 [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER: 152 to 156.
LYNN GUISSINGER: 152 to 156. It should-- going there, it should become clear.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So the first one, I'm looking out on package page 152, where we have proposed
revision, where it says, "Being within an RTD fare paid area without prior payment of the proper fare." So
in relationship to that rationale, recognizing what we're moving towards with the welcoming transit
environment, is we look to have a closed fare payment system. It's to ensure that people have the

adequate fare, and they're in the area in which they should be in, and they're utilizing the facilities and the
vehicles for the intended purpose, which is for means of public transport.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mm-hmm.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I am going to clarify my question. I just-- I was hoping that
you could provide the rationale to the Board for the new rules, because these are rules that we might not
be familiar with or would be new to the community, just so that we don't have to infer the intent.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, so just a point of clarification. So as I look, you're looking at the proposed action
that says, "new addition." Is that correct?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. And I think in the presentation, it said there were two new additions that would
be brand-new rules. And I was wondering if you might take a moment to walk us through those.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. So as we have on package page 154, right immediately after item 20, where
the new edition says, "Engaging in harassment, sexual harassment, or bullying. This includes offensive
behavior, unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature, abusive, repeated conduct directed toward an individual
because of their sex, race, color, national origin, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender
identity, pregnancy, ancestry, age, military status, disability, genetic information, or any other status
protected by law."
As we stated, this is administrative in nature. Quite naturally, there are certain elements relative to us
being a public agency. Of course, we're going to adhere to local, state, and federal laws. And this just
qualifies what those are. And we call that out specifically.
The following line says, "Engaging in language that is violent, profane, or calculated to provoke a breach
of the peace. This includes, but not is limited, fighting words or threatening language that causes others
to fear for their safety." Once again, that supports the effort of creating a welcoming transit environment.
And we've qualified that specifically by including language so there's no ambiguity in what we are
expecting relative to behaviors and guidelines.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, I think there's one more. And I apologize, because I'm scrolling through to
find the appropriate page.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I see one on page 155-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I just saw.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Three from the bottom. It doesn't have a number, but new addition, it says.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So package page 155, it is the one right before the marigold-highlighted
element that says, wheeled devices. And this says, "Occupying or remaining on RTD property where the
totality of the circumstances indicates that an individual is not using RTD services, contracting lawful
business, engaging in protected speech, or otherwise exercising a fundamental right." This new addition
also speaks to what I just said in my aforementioned comments relative to ensuring that the purposes of
our facilities and vehicles are being used for movement or access to public transport. And we're qualifying
that in such a way, recognizing that oftentimes, we have had various comments relative to people
occupying spaces without the intent of utilizing those for the means of public transport.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I don't have any further questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Anybody else with questions or comments on the presentation? Staff changes
and the presentation? OK, I think we have a few amendments, not as many as were handed to us earlier,
but maybe five or six. Yes, ma'am?
KATE WILLIAMS: Do we not vote on this movement before we go to additional amendments?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think they're amending-- they're moving to amend the version that's on the table.
STUART SUMMERS: So the best way to handle this is, we've made a motion to amend. And we have all
of those changes available in the Board document. So that we get the best and most complete outcome,
if there are additional Director-initiated amendments, we should entertain those before holding a final vote
on the Code of Conduct as amended by staff, which you have recommended, and any additional
amendments which come from Directors that are approved to be included.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct.
SPEAKER: Well, I wanted to know. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
STUART SUMMERS: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we received one yesterday from Director Dishell. I think we'll start with that
one. Just going in order, Director Dishell, you have an amendment?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. It is on the screen? No. But I also just want to quickly note and commend staff on
the presentation and on the survey itself. We had almost twice as many, or more like 1-and-1/2 times as
many, Spanish-speaking click-throughs as we did English click-throughs. And I think the emphasis on
Spanish-language engagement at the agency is newer under Ms. Johnson's leadership.
And I think it's important for all of us Directors to take note and look at those numbers and look at our
community and who is really engaging with us and the way in which they are engaging. That is really
amazing to see and really, really amazing. So thank you, guys.
Now, on to the amendment, which was circulated via email. So I move to amend-- oh, it's on the screen.
Wonderful. I move to amend rule number 16 to read as follows, "Engaging in disruptive behavior"-- oh,
can you scroll up a little bit on the screen? Or down. Yeah. So that I can see it.

LYNN GUISSINGER: There you go.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. "Engaging in disruptive behavior that materially interferes with other
passengers'," apostrophe, "utilizing or accessing RTD services or materially interferes with RTD
personnel performing official duties."
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to explain that at all?
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh-LYNN GUISSINGER: Chris, we need a second. Yeah.
DIRECTOR BOUQUET: I'm happy to second the amendment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. OK-SPEAKER: Director Bouquet seconds the motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell has made the motion, and Director Bouquet has seconded it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, and the logic behind the motion, so you want-LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to start with an explanation?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, so the logic behind the motion is to shift from the exhibiting verbiage, which
focuses more on the way in which someone exists and presents themselves, to engaging, which is a
more active act and requires someone to be doing something. And then adding the-- changing it from
"reasonable" to "material," just sort of elevating that standard to avoid what might be perceived discomfort
with other people's existence to someone truly actually engaging in behavior that interferes with
someone's ability to use our services or interferes with someone's ability to do their job.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, so I have another procedural question. So right now, I'm OK with my own
amendment. And I'm OK with Director Dishell's amendment. But I understand that there are other
amendments, and then do I get to vote individually on the ones I'm OK with and the ones I'm not?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We will vote individually here. That's correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: After we hear them all? So we don't vote-LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I think what we'll do is, we'll take this-- unless somebody else wants to change
it, I think we have a motion and a second. We'll have discussion, and then we'll vote on Director Dishell's
motion before we move on.
KATE WILLIAMS: And what about mine?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, these are motions to amend your motion. So we'll come back to yours. Yours
is the big motion. OK.

KATE WILLIAMS: That's why I was asking for help. I'm a transit person, not a policy person.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other comments or discussion? Anything from staff?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, I would recommend that we utilize the word customer in lieu of
passengers.
BOBBY DISHELL: Friendly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Is that a friendly-- you're open to that? OK. May I borrow this? Any
other comments? Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much. Is there a definition of materially interfering?
BOBBY DISHELL: How many times have you argued that one?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't think we should have to argue it, right? I guess I have a concern that it's just
undefined. But if staff is OK with it, I'm good. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. It's essentially the same point, that I was
comfortable with reasonable. I'm nervous about materially. But as Director Buzek says, if staff can live
with that, that's fine.
I do appreciate the change of exhibiting to engaging. For one thing, that's just what the balance of the
document already says, so it's a very sensible amendment. So I'm quite happy to see that. But I raise the
question of materiality to see if staff would like to comment on it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think that's a very good question. Would staff like to comment on the question
of materially rather than reasonably? No? OK, Director Sloan.
DIRECTOR SLOAN: Yes, thank you. I, too, agree with Director Tisdale on the engaging verbiage. But
"materially interferes with other passengers utilizing or accessing RTD services" can be interpreted as,
well, if you get on, and you get to your place, you don't have a complaint. So I believe "disturbing the
reasonable comfort" is more in line with the intent of the Code of Conduct than "materially interferes with
other passengers." And I don't know why we have to then add extra wordage about interfering with RTD
personnel if we can just put the two together.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I'll take Director Ruscha real quick and then come back to you. Director
Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. We also don't define what is reasonable. And I think that
we'd have a range of definitions for what reasonably disrupts or impacts customer comfort. So I would
agree with Director Dishell that materially is just more appropriate and, I think, draws a more clear line.
We are not here to-- we're not targeting individuals. We are here to target behavior.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I was just going to explain that the logic behind removing "reasonable comfort"
has to do with someone's mere existence could make someone reasonably uncomfortable. If you were
born in a place where you may believe that a marriage is only between a man and a woman, and you see
two queer folks together on a train, that may reasonably make you uncomfortable, and you may take
action to make yourself reasonably comfortable, which would be directly harmful to those individuals. And
so the reason for changing it from "reasonable comfort" to "material interference" has to do with the fact
that, again, you need to actually do something to interfere with someone's transit, as opposed to
"reasonable comfort."
Well, I know most people are probably thinking of, you're playing music too loud. My main concern is that
there are a number of-- and an increasing number of people who are feeling discomfort with other
people's existence and taking action on that discomfort. And as a result, the interference language was
added.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Whereas I don't necessarily go along with the explanation
that Director Dishell offers, staff has not expressed any opposition to this. So I'm going to support the
amendment unless staff says they're against it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I guess in order to address some of the concerns,
the key words are also "disruptive behavior." It's not just sitting there. It's also a person engaging in
something. And that's both in the proposed change and in the planned amendment. So I believe that we
should stick with the current proposed change. I don't think it's necessary to make any change to this.
And so I'll vote no at the appropriate time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I'm sorry for speaking twice. But I agree with what Director Sloan said. You
know, "materially interfering" can be so many things.
For example, you get on the bus, and somebody pushes you or spits in your face, but you make it to your
seat. I got to my seat, so is that materially interfering? It didn't really interfere with me. I'm in my seat. Is
that a violation of our Code of Conduct? I think it opens up too many unwanted activities to be acceptable.
Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to note that things like spitting, interfering with
someone's ability to exit, get into an aisle, profanity, et cetera, those things are already covered in the
other rules that we have. I'm not sure if we're at 49 or 51 rules. But just about every other disruptive
behavior is covered in a different rule.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Next point. Anything else? Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Call to question.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, I have one quick comment. But I guess looking for a second on calling the
question. Or can I make one quick comment?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Make the comment. It's OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I don't see a huge difference in terms of the ambiguity of "reasonable comfort"
versus "materially interferes." But I do hear the argument that judging it by somebody else's comfort could
be problematic. I think that, again, this is warnings from our police and security. And I don't see a huge
difference between these two, so I will probably support it as well.
I'm calling-- we don't even need to call the vote. There's no more discussion. So we will go to the vote. I'm
going to call the roll to go through it. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
DIRECTOR DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Har-- is not here. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
DIRECTOR SLOAN: No

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we have-- oh, my vote is a yes. Thank you. 1, 2, 3, 4, we have 4 nos and
10 yeses. The motion passes. All right.
And now I think we have maybe four or five motions from Director Ruscha and Director Guzman,
amendments. Who would like to start?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. So we did send out quite a few of these, and we worked on them very
hard. So what we would like to do is present five to consider. And then we have asked the Chair of the
Safety and Operations Committee if she is amenable to us bringing the rest back through that committee
so that they can be fleshed out in the committee process and brought back to the Board at a later time.
So-LYNN GUISSINGER: For the record, she said yes. And so did the Vice Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. So we will begin by looking at number-- the first number 4. Sorry, there
was a misnumbering in the packet that we gave you.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: If somebody can just direct me to exactly which document and where we are, I'd be
happy to follow.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This document is-- it's a very good question.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It starts with Director Dishell amendment on one side. The other side has Regional
Transportation Resolution number. It goes with the Colorado Proud Day. But you want to find the Director
Dishell amendment and go in a couple of pages to amendment 4. There are two amendments 4. We're
going with the first one here.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so we are addressing it. I'm sorry. A motion has not been made yet. So I'm
speaking out of turn. But I'm asking on a point of order. I take it we're about to have a motion to amend to
adopt language that is set forth in this document as amendment 4.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Correct.

LYNN GUISSINGER: First amendment 4, correct. All right.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, and it's the first of the two discussions that are labeled amendment 4.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Just I'd like the record to be clear for anybody who ever reviews this. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman, go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I apologize for the misnumbering. It was just a mistake. So I motion to amend the
language to add language to the rule that says, "Failing to"-- currently, the rule says, "Failing to leave an
RTD vehicle once fare has expired or upon reaching the fare zone for which fare was purchased." There
is a staff-proposed change to it, which says, "Once media has expired or upon reaching its final
destination." We would like to make the change, which is an addition of language to the staff-proposed
change, which is that "a fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit or if the service has
been delayed or interrupted in such a way that it would have caused a customer to pay more than
originally required to complete their trip," which I think is common sense, but it does happen.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Anything else you'd like to add? Do we have a second to this motion?
SPEAKER: Point of order on behalf of Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams is looking at-- not able to find where this language failure-LYNN GUISSINGER: You see the packet that is-- the front page is Director-KATE WILLIAMS: No, I see that. I don't see where-LYNN GUISSINGER: This should be-- if you go two pages again and look on the back of that page, there
should be an amendment 4 and then another amendment 4.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I was reading-- OK, got it. Thank you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Let's see. We have a motion. Do we have a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll second that motion, Ruscha.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion from Director Guzman and a second from Director Ruscha.
Any discussion? Director Williams, are you still wanting to discuss?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
KATE WILLIAMS: So then the language in red-- I'm sorry, apologize. This is why I didn't want to do this
without having time to study all this. I'm sorry.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Right.
KATE WILLIAMS: So the current rule says, "Failure to leave an RTD vehicle once fare is expired or upon
reaching the fare zone for which the fare was purchased"-LYNN GUISSINGER: No. That was the original rule. The current rule is the next one, failing to exit-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. Madam Chair, that's actually the original motion. The motion that I made
is what you see, because it would retain the current rule.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. But the motion that we are discussing-DOUG TISDALE: The motion Director Williams made to amend to adopt staff changes is what you would
see under staff-proposed changes. That's the sub-motion we're currently under. But the sub-sub-motion is
now the motion to amend to include the language that Director Guzman has moved and Director Ruscha
has seconded.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's right. But this is an amendment to that amendment. So we need to-KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The language.
KATE WILLIAMS: That is my point. So now, what we are seeing that I don't know about anybody else in
the world-- yeah, they are seeing it-- in red is what I need to take a moment to read and understand and
perhaps to have an explanation of what the reasoning behind the changes are, since that seems to be
what we've done so far is, Ms. Johnson explained her reasoning. Director Dishell explained his. So,
Director Guzman, what is the reasoning behind the read language?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So the read language is that we failed to consider in this rule that fare media may
expire while you're in transit, either because of a disruption to service, a deer making contact with the W
line, for example, and pausing that train as you're getting back from BIA and have transferred to get to
Golden-- just an example, a hypothetical-- that would have otherwise caused you to pay for two separate
fare media and not just one.
Now, the A Line fare is a full-day fare, and it would get you all the way there without a problem. However,
if somebody was just doing a regional, it may expire while you're in transit. So it's just to be thoughtful,
create the welcoming environment that if you are 3 hours into your trip, you're delayed a half an hour,
your fare has now expired, but you're still on the train or on the bus, that it's till you get to your final
destination, that you're not going to be recharged 30 minutes before you arrive at that final destination. I
think it's kind of a common-sense approach to collecting the fare properly if somebody only intended to
ride for 3 hours and ended up having to ride for longer not due to their own cause.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson, would you like to address this? Or would you rather hear other
comments first?
DEBRA JOHNSON: In relationship to this, if there's broader discussion on this, I'd rather hear the
rationale associated with such, because--

LYNN GUISSINGER: My fourth speaker is waiting. So if you want to hear the four speakers who are in
the line and then-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, that would be most helpful to us. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. This was also brought forward in consideration of those
who might have a three-hour pass. And it's very similar to the idea if you're in line at the time of closing or
when the polls closed, you know that you are still in line. You will still be served. So this is really intended
for folks who are currently in transit going to their destination, but their fare has expired because it had a
time on it. And I suppose it also could mean a day pass if you're on a trip that extends past what is it,
midnight or 2:00 or whenever that expires.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So my concern is that this proposed amendment is so
wide, you could drive a truck through it, in that a person is on, let's just say, a train. And they want to get
onto a bus. And in order to reach their destination, they say, OK, well, I need to get onto that bus. And so
they leave the train. They need time to get onto the bus. And they could say to someone who maybe
checks fares, well, you know, I need to get to my destination.
But then would this also open up the opportunity that they could just stay on transit forever? They could
keep saying, well, I'm getting on another bus and another bus and another bus. I have not yet reached my
destination yet. And that is a good and valid concern for a person to stay on transit in perpetuity. And I
think that we need to be aware of-- inasmuch as tonight, we're talking hypotheticals, and we're talking
about how some might misuse this system, I can definitely see somebody misuse it by saying, well, I'm
just not, quote, at my destination, end quote, when there is no destination.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. And this is a question for staff, which is, should the Board choose to adopt the
fare policy that has been proposed, my understanding is that we would no longer-- you're paying for a fullday fare. And so with the time-based element, is this really a stopgap measure for the time between when
the code of conduct goes into place and when you're able to purchase full-day fare? And I guess that's a
question for Ms. Johnson just to confirm, and then for Director Guzman to also provide insight.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. I don't want to be presumptuous relative to
what the Board may decide to consider at the July meeting. But let's say we're in a utopian society, and
everybody agreed unanimously that we would basically leverage a new fare structure. This would not be
applicable for all intents and purposes, as we look at our new fare structure going forward. And so when
we talk about day passes, they generally end at a time certain. And that's usually in alignment with the
service delivery model that we have utilized.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's a good question. Go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, and then Director Guzman or Director Ruscha, either way. Would that change
your amendment looking in the future, should the Board choose next month to adopt that fare structure?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So perhaps we should just clarify just for everyone. We also have day
passes. Could staff, just for the record, remind us when they expire? And do we run service after
midnight? I'm also thinking about that situation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: We currently do have transportation that exceeds midnight as we go forward. In
relative to the day past, I don't have that information off the top of my head. Doug MacLeod, our Chief
Financial Officer, come save me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: To the rescue.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. Doug MacLeod. The new fare structure would be we have both a day
pass and a single-trip pass. That single-trip pass is good for 3 hours. The day pass is good for the service
day, which is-- I don't recall what the exact hours are, but it does pass midnight. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else? Director Dishell, I believe.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair, sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So two things. Director Rosenthal, it's upon reaching-- the final destination refers to
the RTD vehicle that this person is on, not their personal interpretation of what their final destination is.
Ownership is not given to the customer in that situation. It's given to the vehicle that they're on.
This is intended to protect customers from overpaying for fare that is not necessary because, through no
fault of their own, they're stuck in transit. It's as simple as that. Somebody's checked my fare, and it
expires 30 minutes. We hit a problem in transit. And the train or the bus does not move for 20 minutes,
and it's going to take me 15 to get to the destination or the end of that line. My fare will have expired by
the time I arrive.
Are they going to throw me off 50 feet away from the train consist? Are they going to allow me to ride to
the end fairly because I paid that fare and, through no fault of my own, I'm delayed 20 minutes. And I'm
thinking of EH&R lines and construction work that's being done where delays are real, but somebody is
paying for a three-hour pass to get somewhere, and they may not make it.
And this is not an everyday thing. This is a small measure until we move forward into the new structure,
and we can address it again then when it is a different relevance in the situation of the new system-wide
fares that potentially may pass if this Board moves in that direction.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. I'm glad we're having this discussion. Director Guzman, I think I understand
where you're going with this. I think that the verbiage is excessive. I think if it's that a fare is not
considered expired if a person is still in transit, no or. No or. If the service has been delayed or
interrupted, and quit right there. Then you would solve the problem that you-- I believe that you're working
toward, which I think we all are supportive of.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am friendly to that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody else with me on that one? Do I need to read it again for the record? So the
original statement, we're all in favor of, "Failing to exit an RTD vehicle once fare media has expired or
upon reaching its final destination," period. A fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit, if
the service has been delayed or interrupted, period.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: That helps.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Making a motion to that effect?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have a second for that?
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I'm wondering, Director Williams, if when you read that, you meant to say
that the new language would read, "A fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit, and the
service has been delayed or interrupted." Is that what I understood you to be saying? I will second that.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's correct. It's and instead of or.
DOUG TISDALE: If the person is still in transit, and the service has been delayed or interrupted, so that
there are two conditions present. That's how I understand the amendment, and that's what I seconded.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is kind of picky. But in that statement, I think a person could argue that they are in
transit. And would it be more clear to say-- to discuss it as a trip, because that person purchased fare
media for a specific trip with an origin and destination. But the process of being in transit could be argued
that it was-- that, well, I'm still in transit, to Director Rosenthal's point. So to amend the amendment, I
would suggest changing it to say, "a trip."
KATE WILLIAMS: If the person is still on a trip?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, that wouldn't be good. No, Kate. If a person's trip or service has been delayed or
interrupted-- if a person's trip. I struggle with the term "in transit" is my point.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are you wanting to make a motion to amend this language?
BOBBY DISHELL: Point of personal privilege.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
BOBBY DISHELL: Would staff mind adjusting the language on the screen so we can all work from a
common set, versus our own--

LYNN GUISSINGER: A fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit, and the service has
been delayed or interrupted. That's the language. While they are working on that, Director Ruscha, I
guess you're next. We'll come back to you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Point of personal privilege. When we are amending amendments on the screen, can
you use the strikethrough option so we can see what is actually being amended? Thank you. And so to
Director Rosenthal's points about folks potentially taking advantage of this rule, we have multiple rules
already that address fares evasion and not having the appropriate fare. So I do feel like that is already
taken care of. The purpose of this amendment is to not cause conflicts between customer and staff when
they did purchase the appropriate fare, and they are still in transit.
And I would also note that we have not debated, voted, or done much in the public body regarding future
fares changes. But one major proposal before us is to eliminate the three-hour pass and replace it with a
single trip. So the amendments before us and the Code of Conduct before us relates to what is relevant
to this moment. We don't know what will happen in a few months when we talk about the fare media
changes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I think in order to alleviate the concern that I brought
is to put something to the effect of, "In their current bus or train." So that way, it is upon-- so failing to exit
a vehicle once fare media has expired or reaching its final destination using their current bus or train.
So in other words, they can't just keep getting off one transit and another transit and getting on another
transit and saying, you know what, I'm not at my destination yet. And this goes to everybody's point,
which is, well, you know what? They're late, or there's a delay, what have you. So I think if it really, truly
means this bus or this train is late, then I don't see why anybody would oppose such a change.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. So we've got two discussions here. And am I hearing a motion? Do you
want to come back to you?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I suppose that I would be moving to amend the amendment to the amendment. Is
that correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think so.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And to clarify that it says, "on the current bus or train in question," let's just say. And
if somebody wants to wordsmith. But you understand where I'm going with it. So nobody can say-LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't exactly. Where are you putting that?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right at the end of the word destination.
LYNN GUISSINGER: In the first sentence.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Or actually, is still in transit-- actually, that's a better spot for it-- "In transit on their
current bus or train."
DOUG TISDALE: Will the gentleman yield for a question?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Rather than "current," do you want to say "initial"?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: On their-DOUG TISDALE: Current, because anything I'm on is the current one.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right, on their initial. Yes, that's fine. That's a friendly change, "on their initial bus or
train." And that would take care of my concern.
SPEAKER: Can we vote on that separately?
LYNN GUISSINGER: On what? This?
SPEAKER: Director Rosenthal?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, we don't have a second yet. Is there a second?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion from Director Rosenthal to add "on their initial bus or train,"
and a second from Director Buzek. It is getting a little strung out here. I'm going to take the next two
speakers, and then maybe we'll start to see if we can make them so-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Yeah. Ms. Johnson, do you have someone that wants to-DEBRA JOHNSON: No, I'm going to speak-LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Yeah, this kind of wordsmithing would be good in ops.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that what you were going to say?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Madam Chair, if I may, I was just conferring with the ADM bus operations. We
don't have a route or a train that travels for 3 hours. So that's what I wanted to qualify or clarify. If there is
service disruption, understood. But when we're talking about the verbiage that you guys are currently
discussing, where we talk about "initial bus or train," really, you're talking about on a revenue vehicle. So
we could basically make that more succinct there. But we don't have any bus or train that is in revenue
service on a one-way trip for 3 hours.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, so in other words, you're addressing the "on their initial bus or train," that's the
language that doesn't make sense-DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. That's all I just wanted to offer up because I heard some comments relative to
the 3-hour pass and things of the like. And then I think it's important to note, too, as we talk about going
forward that we will have fare capping.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. Director Sloan?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just wanted to say that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I do agree that no one would disagree with the substance of the
proposed amendment. I would like to point out two things, though. One is that all these rules are subject
to reasonable interpretation by our law enforcement. One of the reasons that we have the proposed staff
changes is to simplify. And we are now expanding the language on each of these provisions.
The other is, a Board of 15 people is not the appropriate place to do wordsmithing. And we will-- because
we received these on our way into the meeting rather than before the meeting, I think every one of these
amendments is going to have the same difficulty. I'm uncomfortable with reaching different wordage as
we go forward tonight as a general proposition. Because I'm uncomfortable with us reaching a good
provision, I am going to vote no on each of these, not because I oppose them, but because they have not
had thoughtful vetting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. If we could refrain from insulting a director's work, I think the meeting will
go more smoothly. So we do actually have routes that take an hour and a half. Sometimes you have to
transfer. Sometimes you have to wait for 30 minutes. Sometimes the bus is late. Sometimes it blows by
you.
Again, we have-- I didn't count-- multiple rules on fares evasion and paying for the correct fare media. The
language that's now in front of us on the screen no longer reflects the intent of the amendment. So, again,
the point here is to ensure that we don't entrap a paying customer into an arbitrary rule, and also to make
sure that we are not creating more potential for conflict between staff, be that an operator or RTD PD or
our contracted security and the customer. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. So this no longer reflects what you're looking for. Is that right? OK. I
don't think there was any insult there. I think it was just a statement that people haven't had a chance to
review these. Normally, they go through the committee, and that probably is a better process than getting
them right before the meeting. So Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. In regard to the comment relative to multiple rules
addressing this, I'm not finding all of those. That's undoubtedly my fault. And the Director is undoubtedly
correct in what she states. But I'm not finding multiple rules that address this specific issue.
Secondly, the GM CEO's suggestion, at first, I didn't agree with. And then I realized it is an excellent and
elegant fix to the whole thing, given the scheduling, so that we don't even need the words, "and service
has been delayed or interrupted," because we're talking about the initial bus or train. So I think that's fine.
If we wanted to, I think we could adopt that, and we could fix it. However, that having been said, I am-when we get back to the amendment by Director Guzman, as seconded by Director Ruscha, before the
amendment as made by Director Williams and seconded by me and then the amendment by Director
Rosenthal, which was seconded by Director Buzek. But when we get back to that first amendment to the
amendment, I'm going to move to table. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Okey doke. Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And just because we may disagree with a Director does not mean
we mean any kind of insult. So I didn't hear that either.
However, the fact that we got these moments before our meeting is problematic, because we don't have
time to consider or understand what your intent is and consider it. And then we're faced with these
amendments after amendments. And what you just talked about is what happens. It's not what you
intended or what you wanted. And now it's changed dramatically. And it could pass like this, whether you
like it or not.
So I think a better way is to have this come through committee like the original one did and came out of
committee unanimously. It should go back to that committee, and all of these amendments should be
proposed, given their due consideration and good discussion and wordsmithing that reflects your intent. I
think that's really important. That's all I have. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's similar. I want to point out that nobody is insulting anybody here, and that's
not a necessary comment, and that I think that Director Guzman and Director Ruscha spent a lot of time
and put a lot of thought into this and that the rest of us would like to put the same amount of time and
thought into it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, two things. Just one on the 3-hour thing, when I would take the 0 to Union
Station to the FF1 to get to Boulder for school, on a snowy day, that takes more than 3 hours. It just does.
And that's one fare.
So secondly, to just the comments that have been made, I can understand and would agree that it is
offensive to tell someone who worked pretty hard on a series of amendments that it hasn't been duly
thought through. So I just-- language is important. And so that's that.
And I think the other side of it is, we all have had the same amount of time to consider the language. And
just because they chose to bring forward amendments, and other folks may or may not have, we've been
getting letters for a long time. It's not new. And it's not unprecedented for amendments to come at the
Board.
And so I appreciate what folks are saying. But I think the other reality is, everyone has had time to think
about these rules. And if you're just now interpreting the rules as we're looking at these amendments,
then maybe you didn't do the homework ahead of the Board meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I guess at the risk of looking like I haven't done my homework, with all due
respect, perhaps you're right, to the level of others. But we have had some discussions about postponing
very valid work to our committee to further look through these types of items. This one may be a moot
point in five months or whatever. But others may not.
So I guess my thought was to have these-- well, whichever ones we choose, perhaps this one-- be
postponed to the Operation and Safety Committee for further work. But with that thought in mind, we do
need to move forward with something tonight. We've heard it loud and clear. But I do respect the work,

and I expect the thoughtfulness of that. And I think it's worthy of more discussion with the committee later
on. And I don't know what that proposed date looks like, Madam Chair of the committee, or Madam Chair,
or our staff. But it's just a thought to get off center here and move along and not just cast these aside.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So OK, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree with Director Whitmore. I, for one, spent 4 to 5 hours
reviewing all of this material, and I read every single comment that was written in our packet. And I think
we need to move forward. And I did do my homework, and I was quite comfortable with the Code of
Conduct as staff proposed the changes.
So I think what we're talking about here is that these several pages of amendments, we have not had the
same time to vet those amendments as some of us had to look at the initial staff proposal. And I think
that's where the concern is about the time, because I would have liked to have had more time to consider
these proposed amendments.
I think the quality is good. I really appreciate the rationale. But I just had to read them right before this
meeting. And I didn't even get all the way through it. So I think that's the concern, that we have not had
time to look at these amendments, because a lot of us did take the time to look at the staff proposals. And
I, for one, was very comfortable with the staff-proposed changes. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: How would we like to proceed? Would it be
LYNN GUISSINGER: Rather than-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Amenable to the Board-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: If I withdraw my motion, if somebody else would make a motion to move this to
committee so it can be worked on. And we will take these amendments there and do that work with the
committee to potentially bring them back what is worthy of being brought back so that it is thoughtfully
vetted-LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And entertained by everybody to move forward in a faster manner.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's great. And are you talking about all of the amendments, Director
Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I only made one here. But I think the next motion could be to move all of them to the
Safety and Operations Committee.
JACK KROLL: So if you are amenable to withdrawing your motion, we can go back to the staff changes
as amended along with Director Dishell's. I don't believe you need to make an additional motion to table

these items to the Performance-- or the Operations and Safety Committee because Director Williams has
already indicated her willingness to entertain all of those.
Should Director Williams decide that that's not the case, your other-- which I don't think she would. I'm
just going to outline your options here-- is that you would then need to initiate a three Director-initiated
action items through the Operations and Safety Committee, at which point then they would go on the
agenda. My recommendation is, if your motion is successfully-- if we're going to withdraw that motion.
Now, Chair, if we can agree that we would be then back to the original motion made by Director Williams
that has been amended by Director Dishell's amendment. At that point, as the Chair, you could choose to
end the debate by asking your colleagues to end the debate and call the question, which would require a
2/3 majority vote.
And then the question is called, and then you're voting immediately thereafter on simply just the Code of
Conduct amended-LYNN GUISSINGER: As amended by staff.
BOBBY DISHELL: And Director Dishell. So I think that's the best course of action here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. I'd like to hear from Director Guzman and Director Ruscha. I think that
sounds like a course of action that will be supported. But I'd like to hear where you are.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I guess I'll go first. My dear peers, I am a new Director. Thank you. I've been
reminded of that almost every month. And it is not easy to catch up with all of you who have had more
experience and time doing this, because this is not the world I came from, nor the world I live in most of
the time.
So I thank you in advance for your consideration in Operations and Safety. I also thank you for giving us
the time to try and be Directors, because this is not easy, OK? I now have to go back to my community
and answer for what I am about to do. And I am certain to be very disliked for this move. So I want to put
that on the record.
But I'm grateful for the opportunity to be able to come back and have a second chance at getting this
right. And as I learn, and as we learn, I appreciate you assigning us the grace of trying to do this and
keep step with all of you who have had much more practice. Therefore, I withdraw my amendment to this
motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. I think a member cannot unilaterally withdraw. It has to be
done by unanimous consent. And that means if anyone objects, it cannot be withdrawn. And then you
have to go through the process of either laying on the table or postponing to a definite time or postponing
indefinitely, each of which are three separate motions governed by different rules.
And I don't want to anticipate that somebody will object to this. But it also begs the question that
Executive Manager of the Board brings up, which is, if this is, in fact, withdrawn, rather than either tabled
or postponed, it requires a new three-Director initiative to bring it before the Operations Committee.
Therefore, speed might be facilitated in this process if, in fact, we had a motion to lay on the table, which
always sounds like a death knell, but you can take up from the table, too, and then let that be considered
by the Operations Committee or postponed to a definite time for the Operations Committee. I just wanted
to lay those procedural options out there. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe-- and maybe Ms. Snyder or Mr. Crowe. But I believe that our Chair of the
Operations Committee can put it on the agenda and has agreed to do that, so that that's the point. You're
saying that he cannot withdraw his motion, is that-DOUG TISDALE: Except by unanimous consent. And I don't know if anyone is going to object to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that correct, Ms. Snyder? Or Jack? Everybody's looking it up. All right. Well,
maybe the easiest thing to do is to go for unanimous consent and do it that way. There are several other
amendments that I think Director Ruscha or Director Guzman was speaking of bringing. So those are still
out there. And I guess the question is, are you OK with this process? OK, you are recognized to speak,
Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So it should be noted that, as Director Dishell said, we had
multiple emails from key constituency groups and constituents about the original proposed revisions back
in February. I understand and respect that staff went out and did a survey process and had some
dialogue. But none of those individual groups were ever offered a one-to-one meeting or a one-to-five
meeting or a one-to-ten meeting. And that is very different from how we previously changed our Code of
Conduct when key constituency groups raised concern.
Previously, we had ad hoc committees. Some Directors here were involved with them. We didn't do that
with this process. The process was, we had a survey that didn't specifically ask about the proposed
changes, but just about having a Code of Conduct in general. That survey, as it's been noted, was
disproportionately answered by folks who ride rail, who were disproportionately white and not necessarily
representative of our ridership as demonstrated in the ZIP code data that we got.
It is our obligation, it is our duty, to actually have debate on these issues. And while I respect
consternation regarding time and folks wanting to go home, it doesn't absolve us of that duty. Now, I had
no less than 32 requests for amendments. I spent a long time trying to get consensus from multiple
groups, RNOs, in and out of my district to bring forth what I did today.
And even then, we were asked to take those amendments and pick five, or else they would be tabled or
shot down. So we picked five. I don't think it would be appropriate to send this to Safety and Operations.
This is a whole-Board exercise.
I could, however, as long as we were allowed to discuss the content, I would be amenable to tabling
these amendments to a future full Board meeting after some additional discussion and folks having time
to sit on it. That concludes my comment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to be clear, this is not about getting home early. This is about Directors not
being handed 19 amendments, 18 amendments, as we're going into a meeting and being able to assess
them. And in terms of the suggestion about not having thoughtful analysis, I don't think that's directed at
either of you. I think people appreciate all the work you went into.
I have to say, I think there is merit. I haven't had a chance to read through most of these. But I see merit
in some of what I've seen. I just-- I think what you're hearing is people saying, this isn't the way we need
to be deciding it. We've had so much time to read through everything else. And the amendments just are
coming to us late. So that said, yes, Jack.
JACK KROLL: Oh, to get back to Director Tisdale's point, he is correct. So you can't withdraw a motion
without unanimous consent. However, it sounds like you probably don't have unanimous consent to

withdraw this. So at the conclusion of the discussion on this, my recommendation is you can have a vote.
And if it's voted down, it doesn't mean that it can't be reconsidered at the committee level. That's probably
the fastest way out of it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. We have two more in the line. We'll see Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to address the repeated comments about people who want to go home. Some
people come to the meeting on time. Some people don't. So if we're going to have that discussion, we're
going to have that discussion.
Secondly, I'm amenable to anything that anybody wants to do. I'm interested in reading these and
considering them. I'm going to move that we postpone the continuation of this meeting to give us time to
give these the work that Director Ruscha and Director Guzman and Director Dishell did with their
constituents who did not get to meet with our staff but did get to meet with them so that we can all digest
this the way it deserves.
And we can postpone this meeting for an hour and go-- there is that option, I believe, and go read this
stuff and digest it and then come back, and we can all discuss it. Is that something that we can do
legitimately?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that there is merit to the idea of the motion to table and move this, since
you're open to taking it in the Operations and Safety Committee. That is open to all Board members. It will
still come back to the Board ultimately. So that may be the direction we want to go. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just a point, I'm not even sure what Amendment is currently on the table. Are we
asking to send this to Operations? Or are we asking to adopt these changes to the amendment on the
wall. And if I may, it is against this Board's rules and Robert's Rules of Order to levy insults at fellow
Directors, subject to censure. So let's, please, again, watch our language. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: So the motion currently on the floor here is to consider the amendment as edited above.
SPEAKER: The amendment to the amendment.
JACK KROLL: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. So rather than motion to table, we just take a vote. Is that-JACK KROLL: Well, if someone wants to make a motion to table, that takes precedence over everything
else.
BOBBY DISHELL: I move to call the question.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. The issue would be that if we make a motion to table at this point in time,
all we're doing is tabling the amendment to the amendment to the amendment, as opposed to if we go
through the process of voting and can vote down each of the subsidiary amendments, then we can
proceed to the main amendment to the main amendment motion to the main motion which I made. And
that would then take that particular Guzman Ruscha motion and put it before the Operations and Safety
Committee's table, which they can then vote to take up from the table, OK?

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So Director Dishell has called the question. We need 10 votes to call and go
directly to the vote. Although there's nobody else in line, so I think if everybody's OK, we will go directly to
the vote. The first vote we are voting on is-JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, Madam-- Madam Chair, I'm sorry. I'm very grateful to Director Tisdale. I
caught one-third of that. Can we say that in layman's terms? Are we currently voting to take the amended
amendment or the original amendment to Operations and Safety?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We are currently voting on the language of their initial current bus or train, as I
understand it. That was the last-JOYANN RUSCHA: So is that the first vote we're taking?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It's just the language.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, it's the Rosenthal motion that we are voting on at this point to amend.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Then we will get after that to the Williams motion-- I'm sorry, to the-- yeah, no, the
Williams motion to amend, and then back to the Ruscha-Guzman motion to amend. So we have to vote
through each of those to get to the Guzman-Ruscha.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the first one is the-SPEAKER: What's highlighted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it's just their initial bus or train is that amendment. Is there anyone that
opposes-- wait, yeah, I guess I need to just call the role. Is there anyone in favor of this motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. We made the motion. We're in favor of it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, we're trying to-- I thought you wanted-- if the goal is to move this to a
committee, I think we want to vote these down. Is that-SPEAKER: All in favor.
All right. Is there anyone in favor of this motion? OK, see, no one-- that motion is-- the motion fails.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, there's one. There's one. There's mine.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JOYANN RUSCHA: Point of order. Can the Chair please when you say in favor of motion or whatever,
what motion are we talking about?
LYNN GUISSINGER: This one we were just saying, it was Director Rosenthal's motion that says, "their
initial bus or train."

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, did we vote on that? That's what I'm asking about.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, and then I have a comment as well. My concern is that we vote down this
amendment, then we vote down the bigger amendment, and then it reverts to the original read language,
including the stricken version. And then that would be voted on potentially to adopt.
And some may say I'm not going to send that. Some people could say, we're not going to send that to the
committee. Let's vote on it now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not hearing that.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Some could say that. So that is my concern, is that we could have a switch at the
end to where our agreement is, let's send this to committee. But then what if it doesn't go to committee?
Then it's just adopted in a version that I don't support.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, if I could get another point of order. Director Guzman made a-- Director
Guzman offered to withdraw his amendment. That was not voted on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess if we-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Do you have unanimous consent on that?
JOYANN RUSCHA: The Chair would have to ask.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Can we have order?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, yeah. We're going to-- I guess we'll go back to that and see if we have
unanimous consent. I thought we were not hearing that. Director Guzman has made a motion to withdraw
his motion. And is there anyone opposed?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, just to clarify, because there was a lot of conversation after. As long as the
motion is just to withdraw the amendment, it's not to send it or table it for a date certain or uncertain. It's
simply to withdraw, then I do not object.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right, I hear no-- I'm kidding. [LAUGHS] All right.
DOUG TISDALE: And, Madam Chair, for the record, let me-LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear no objections to the motion to withdraw.
DOUG TISDALE: Unanimous consent that we suspend the rules to allow the withdrawal in that manner,
because ordinarily, you'd have to go up the ladder of motions. So if we can have unanimous consent to
suspend the rules and to allow the withdrawal of the motion as stated by Director Guzman and allowed by
Director Ruscha.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.

DOUG TISDALE: That's what I would say. If we can ask that question now, if the Chair would ask, do we
have unanimous consent to do that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have unanimous consent to suspend the rules and to allow Director Guzman
to withdraw his motion? Is there anyone opposed to that? Yeah. Thank you, Director Tisdale. All right.
That motion is withdrawn.
Now, we have a motion, Director Williams' motion, to adopt the changes that staff made to the original
motion. Are there other motions?
JACK KROLL: And Director Dishell's-LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell's motion adopted as well. Yeah. All right. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I would still like to go ahead and offer the other four amendments for
discussion. So if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So yes?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. So in your packet-- and these were accidentally misnumbered.
But it's amendment 4, the second amendment 4. It's related to harassment, sexual harassment, and
bullying.
And please tell me if I'm out of order. Would it be an appropriate motion to adopt the language in the
packet that Directors have in front of them? Or would I need to read it in full?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it's OK unless one of the Directors is requesting it be read in full.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. I agree completely with that. Can we just number these
pages so we can at least make a reference for the sake of the record so that people in the future know
what we were talking about?
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a handout, page 1, which says at the top, Director Dishell amendment. Then
there is-- on the second page of that same handout, it says Director Ruscha-Guzman amendments. Then
page 3 of that handout begins with-- or, I'm sorry, contains in the middle the words "amendment 3,"
boldface, underlined, and highlighted. Then on page 4 of that document, there is the phrase "amendment
4" that appears twice on that page, boldface, underlined, and highlighted.
Then the fifth page of that document begins with the words "proposed amendment" and has strike and
replace with and contains five paragraphs set forth in red. Then on page 6 of that same attachment, there
is a heading, "amendment 5," at the top of that page that is boldface, underlined, and highlighted.
Then on page 7 of that handout at the bottom of it, boldfaced, highlighted, and underlined is the phrase
"amendment 7." Then on page 8 of that document, there is a boldfaced, underlined, highlighted

statement, "amendment 8." That is page 8 of that document. Then on page 9, it says at the top, boldface,
caps, underlined, highlighted, "amendment 9."
Then on the next page, it says towards the bottom of that page, boldface, underline, caps, highlighted,
amendment 11. That is page 10 of the document. Then on page 11, it begins-- I'm sorry, it says in the
middle, "amendment 12," boldface, underlined, highlighted, caps. And then the next page is page 12,
which says at the top, "amendment 13" in the same format. And then the next page is 13, and the next
page is 14. And that page 14 says at the top "amendment 17" in the same formatting as described
heretofore. And then the last page of that document has page 15 as relates to these rules.
Just for the sake of clarity, I understand Director Ruscha to be addressing now the language contained on
page 5 of this instrument, which is the second listed amendment 4. And it's the language that begins on
page 5 and is contained therein. That's my point of order and inquiry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Go ahead, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair and Director Tisdale. So I'll go ahead into the rationale for
this proposed amendment. This amendment, to be very clear, does not in any way weaken the proposed
rules regarding harassment, bullying, sexual harassment, or any other conduct based on a protected
class.
So the first point is that offensive behavior in the proposed staff rule is not defined in the original rule
proposal. And that was raised by a handful of groups, including the ACLU. Bullying is actually not quite
defined. And I think bullying is-- it is not even something we could even look to statute to get some ideas
on what the definition of bullying is. But I think if we clearly define harassment, whether it is or is not
based on a protected class, we effectively capture bullying.
So the amendment clearly states that the behavior that we won't permit and the standard that behavior
becomes unreasonable, and thus a violation of the rule. We did separate-- and, again, this was based on
an extraordinary amount of feedback-- general harassment from hate speech, just in the paragraphs for
clarity. It doesn't remove one or the other.
And then to provide the expansion of the greatest possible protections for riders and our staff, we
included gender expression, ancestry, and the phrase, "real or perceived," because a person could make
a slur based on someone else's perceived protected status. That's something we generally recognize in a
civil procedure or employment law or any other areas, which I think a lot of this original language was
borrowed from. So, again, this is intended to, I think, meet staff's intent.
And then we also, in this revision, we capture what we believe to be the one-time incidents and removes
the severe or pervasive standard that we think is written in the current proposal. So "severe and
pervasive" generally means that somebody has to continuously harass you, even if their initial offending
language or conduct was severe. And so with that, you have the language before you. And I would
welcome any conversation or follow up on that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion as written here from Director Ruscha. Do we have a
second? OK. Not hearing a second. I think, Director Ruscha, that what this means is people would like to
go to have more time with it and take it back to the Operations and Safety Committee so that we have a
chance to really understand these.
We are at the-- back to the Director Williams motion. I guess--

SPEAKER: Right.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to call the question?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to call the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have a request to call the question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: What are we-- I'm sorry. Are you asking to end debate and amendments? Is that
what we're doing?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think the calling the question ends debate and goes to the vote on that
amendment. And what that would do is put all the rest of the amendments-- proposed amendments into
Director Williams' agreement to take those up as the Operations and Safety Committee.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So we can't have two motions at once. Are you asking to call the question and the
debate and vote on this? Or are you making two amendments, which would send anything else to
Operations?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think your amendment didn't get a second, so it has died. So it's back to-PEGGY CATLIN: So I'm calling the question on Kate's original motion to adopt the staff-recommended
amendments to the Code of Conduct as amended by Director Dishell.
JACK KROLL: So that would now require-- is there a second to call the question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
JACK KROLL: OK. So now that's immediately-- it's immediately you have to vote on it. And it requires 10
votes to pass.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. OK, I will call the roll. The motion as moved by Director Catlin and seconded
by Director Rosenthal is to call the question of the Director Williams motion, as amended by Director
Dishell's motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. For a procedural motion, I think you can just take a show
of hands.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All in favor of calling the question at this point?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Chair, since I'm not there to raise my hand, I'm in favor.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you, Erik. All right. Do I see-- I see no votes from Director Dishell and
Director-JACK KROLL: Ruscha and Guzman.

LYNN GUISSINGER: No, Guzman is raising his hand. So there are 12 yes votes, 2 no votes. And, again,
this is not the end of your amendments. I appreciate-- I think everybody appreciates the work you've put
into it. It looks like there's some merit here. It's just hard to take on a lot of new amendments before we
have a chance to look at them.
So all right, we have called the vote. This is Director Williams' motion, seconded by Director Buzek-- no-yeah? Who seconded that motion?
JACK KROLL: Who seconded Kate's motion?
SPEAKER: My [INAUDIBLE] yesterday.
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to talk? We just called the question?
SPEAKER: I don't remember.
VINCE BUZEK: I don't remember. It could have been me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I have Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Tisdale. Seconded by Tisdale and amended by Director Dishell's motion. I
think I'll call the roll on this one. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yep.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director-- oh, Hardwick's not here. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, I'm just-- Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a yes. We have 2 nos, 1 absent, and 12 yeses. So the motion passes.
The Code of Conduct as amended by the staff and as amended by Director Dishell passes, and these
amendments will be taken up separately by the Operations-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Now we're on to the main motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: The main motion was the original motion that I made to adopt the Code of Conduct. It
was then amended by Director Williams' motion to incorporate the staff changes. And that motion was
amended by Director Dishell to do a tweak on one particular section. And so now we're back to the main
motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The main motion is to adopt-DOUG TISDALE: And it is appropriate to have that. And I would suggest the absence of debate on the
main motion being desired by the body.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Did you want to speak right now? OK. Does anyone else want to speak? Or
can we move to a vote on the main motion? The main motion is to adopt the Code of Conduct as
amended. OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to say that based on so many of the comments that were written and also
the comments that we received tonight from the public, I think it's really important that we do adopt
something to give our staff some teeth to move forward and be able to enforce some of this stuff. I just
think it's very important that we give them something with which to move forward. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think that we failed to do our duty in even having
discussion. Clearly, again, we had pretty considerable feedback from key constituency groups. And that
also included some staff. So I regret I wasn't able to even present ideas for us to discuss, because public
policy is for this boardroom.
But for whatever it's worth, one of the amendments I wanted to bring forth was to expressly prohibit open
drug use, which is not currently a rule. But we've closed debate, so I guess we'll talk about it in Safety.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. All right. I will call the roll. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Hardwick-- oh, sorry. Director Rosenthal.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Guissinger, I am a yes. There are one absent, one no vote, which is Director
Ruscha, and the other 13 all yes votes on the Code of Conduct as amended. Thank you.
SPEAKER: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SPEAKER: Can we take a break for just a moment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. We're dealing with some odd video Zoom thing. If we take a break here, is that
good? OK. 10 minutes, is that enough for you all? Is that enough for everybody? 10 minutes, OK.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

Part 4
LYNN GUISSINGER: Everybody, take your seats, please. Meeting will come back to order. All right. Let's
see. Give me just a minute. That's what I'm working on.
SPEAKER 1: I didn't see that [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We had a motion to divide the Suspension Policy from the Code of Conduct.
So we still need to vote on the Suspension Policy. Let's see what that-- I think that would read, "for the
Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the Service Suspension Policy."

DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved, Director Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Director Williams. All right. And then, Director Williams, I believe you need
to-- were there changes made by the staff in April?
KATE WILLIAMS: I didn't think there were. [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER 2: I believe there were some changes made to it. I do not have that yet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson or Ms. Snyder, is that right? When the staff made changes to the
Code of Conduct, were there-DEBRA JOHNSON: There changes initially made when this was brought forward to committee that
basically cleaned up some language, being more inclusive, using "their" instead of "his or her," utilizing
"customer" in lieu of "passenger." But those are contained in your Board packet, packet page 171. There
were no additional refinements made since the commencement of the outreach period of April 3.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So there were more changes made around at the same time as they were made in
the Code of Conduct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. And then I want to move to amend the Suspension Policy, adopting staff's
proposed changes dated April 3-- and I don't know what pages they're outlined in. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. That's fine.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's the motion.
SPEAKER 3: Beginning of page 171.
KATE WILLIAMS: And then we need a second to that motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do we have a second to Director Williams' motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So our first motion was Director Tisdale, seconded by Williams. The second
motion was Director Williams, seconded by Tisdale. [LAUGHS] Right. All righty.
[? DOUG TISDALE: ?] [INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]

SPEAKER 4: We needed that today.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director-- Ruscha, do you have a comment, something to add?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So the Suspension Policy has not been walked through
with this Board at any meeting. We got a few points of rationale, but we haven't actually discussed or
heard from staff why they felt these certain changes were needed or how it would help them do their jobs
or keep bus or transit safer. So I would invite us to have that conversation. It also is very difficult to find on
the Respect the Ride website. And we did not workshop the actual Suspension Policy changes to the
public.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Are there other comments. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. There's reference to a citation under Fare Evasion, page 172. What-- and I
apologize if I missed it-- is this a financial citation? And if so, how much is it, or does it vary? Is it a
criminal citation? Is it-SPEAKER 5: Right at the top, in the first paragraph.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, in Fare Evasion, it says, first offence, warning. And then second, third, and
further, each say "citation." I just want to know what it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's right at the top of page 172, in the first paragraph.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Steve Martingano, Deputy Chief of Police- so just for the actual state statute, it's
$75. Different counties put extra costs on it. So the City and County of Denver, if you get a Fair Evasion
citation, it's $82.50. Any of the other seven counties that we service, it's $106.50.
BOBBY DISHELL: And what's the penalty for failure to pay a citation?
STEVE MARTINGANO: So the actual penalty is-- you're talking about-- the statute of it is actually a
criminal offense.
BOBBY DISHELL: Criminal offense.
STEVE MARTINGANO: I'm sorry, a motor vehicle offense. It's not a criminal offense, it's a motor vehicle
offense.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. Thank you. Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha, did you have more?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, I have a handful of questions to this proposal and to understand better staff
intent. But since Director Dishell brought up Fares Evasion, I would like to start with that. So the first, just
to understand-- and this actually just goes generally speaking. When it comes to suspensions, who is
allowed to issue a suspension? My current understanding is that it is RTD PD or a bus or rail supervisor.
But can that please be clarified? I think to the public we said this would fall under the PD's purview only.
JOEL FITZGERALD: So my understanding is that, historically, it has been able to be written by-- or they
have been able to be written by bus and rail supervisors as well. This has been something that hasn't

been placed in practice. However, this is something that is allowed to be done since it's a civil citation.
And in essence, we're able to tell other police departments that they can write under our citations. And
we're able to tell Allied employees that they can write it. And therefore, we're able to allow other
employees of RTD to write it as well, which is a force multiplier for us since the instances of behavior that
led to us putting this forth means that we have to have more people to be able to look out for problems
and to be able to issue those citations accordingly.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So just that I understand, when it comes to fares evasion, any RTD staff
can issue that citation. And whatever legal procedure needs to follow, we're permitted?
JOEL FITZGERALD: There was some-- this question was generated a couple of minutes before we got in
here today. There were some dialogue between myself and legal and others about this. However,
historically, my understanding is, after doing some research, that other people in RTD were allowed to
write these citations at one time.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point of clarification-- we are talking about other employees are capable of writing
service suspension, not fare.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, so then-JOEL FITZGERALD: I'm sorry. I thought that was the question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: That's OK. I confuddled the question, sir. So I think I have two questions. The first is,
just plainly, who is allowed to issue a suspension? And then the second is, who is allowed to issue a
citation for fares evasion that would come with a criminal penalty?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, the fare evasion in and of itself won't make it to criminal penalty because it's a
traffic violation. So-JOYANN RUSCHA: Civil, thank you. Statutory penalty, is that fair.
JOEL FITZGERALD: That's how we want to-JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. So that means that only RTD PD can write a citation for fares
evasion?
JOEL FITZGERALD: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. OK. I might have to get a followup with council on how that works, but I just
wanted to check.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Council or the Board?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I guess maybe offline. I didn't understand how individuals who were not police or
even perhaps security could write a civil citation. But that could be a legal-- that can be a followup, offline
question. Just want to understand the jurisdiction.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, again, we're private property inherently, so we're able to dictate. That's why
we're here before the Board asking for enhancements, because the one administrative penalties that
we're able-- or I should say the administrative penalties that we're able to level against individuals who

are chronic offenders are these type of prohibitions. So we have wide latitude in that regard, to ensure
that those people don't continue to cause problems on any implement of transportation.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. Thank you. So then, I have a follow up, quick question, as it pertains to fares
evasion under the Suspension Policy red line. And if someone could remind me what page that's on
because I'm on a different page.
DOUG TISDALE: 172.
JOYANN RUSCHA: 172? OK. It currently says that the first offense will be a warning. But before the
Board is a proposal to remove that first warning. But we did talk about education a lot at this meeting and
in community conversation and also warning folks and redirecting them to resources. It's also-- it is a
violation of statute, although it's treated the same, as Chief Fitzgerald pointed out, as a moving traffic
violation, to lose your fare. So I guess what I'm asking is why would we remove the warning and replace it
with a potential suspension up to two weeks, as opposed to just having warning as our current policy for
first infraction?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, as written on package page 172, first offense, it does says warning, up to one
day suspension. And "written" is stricken. So that means, if somebody came into contact, they could
educate and informed said customer and say you have to ensure you have your fare. They're not being
issued a written warning. That's being stricken.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So, unless I'm reading this wrong, currently the policy is a warning. We're revising
this to say a warning up to a suspension. So that would be a change of the current policy, correct? And
I'm just trying to understand why that is necessary.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You are correct in-- just a second, Chief. Yes, I want to qualify my statements by
saying, yes, you are correct. It's warning up to one day suspension. I'll yield the floor to the Chief
momentarily. But recognizing what I presented earlier, it depends on the severity, as we talked about, and
provides our law enforcement officials with greater latitude so we can ensure a welcoming transit
environment. Chief, please feel free to elaborate. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You said 99% of what I'd say. I'd only add that our folks on the ground level had
input into the changes that we've made here and needed and asked for stiffer penalties for individuals
who we deal with that are chronic offenders, who perhaps have been issued penalties in the past. Their
duration of the penalty has expired, and then they have re-offended. Some people, who our folks, our
operators, our police officers, our security staff that are contracted with us, deal with every day, are folks
that have earned the status of getting the suspensions or the penalties that they have-- that we've
leveled. And I would say that our response to being able to provide a safe and welcoming transit
environment is to ensure that the chronic violators, those individuals, face something a bit stiffer than a
two-week notice to leave.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And I would just round up by saying this speaks to what we heard this evening when
we had the various operators speak to us. Operator Jimenez talked about his assault. There was
additional comments from others that spoke firsthand about their experiences. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I appreciate that, and I heard the same-- I heard the same commentary. I'm talking
just specifically to fare evasion, which also includes losing your ticket. So I still don't understand why we
need to remove the warning and make it warning, up to a one-day suspension because we don't know if

someone lost their ticket or they purposely evaded their fare. I know I have lost my ticket. I was let go. But
not everybody, you know, has that privilege.
So I, personally, as far as some of these minimum suspensions that we have in this policy, they don't-- I'm
not particularly-JOEL FITZGERALD: I'm glad that you were given that kind of deference. That leads into one point that
I've reinforced since I talked about all of this, and that is that officers have discretion. And the folks that
are out here that are dealing with people make determinations as to whether or not someone is a chronic
offender or someone is like yourself, who may have forgotten their ticket. We're assuming a whole lot
here. We're assuming that people aren't going to allow those folks that lose their ticket to ride and aren't
trying to engage in fare evasion.
I will reinforce again that our folks see it every day on the ground at stations throughout this jurisdiction.
They see folks that evade fares. And it doesn't apply to everybody who rides public transit, nor would we
want it to. So again, your example is perfect because that's what we would like to see. We want our folks
to make good decisions about those folks that, perhaps, lost their ticket in transit. And those things
happen.
And I just had a conversation with the folks in the back. And we talked about the kind of discretion that
they have out there. But we also talked about having the teeth behind what we're standing for here and
what we're asking for, to be able to deter those people who are not paid-fair customers or folks that don't
make mistakes and that cause problems in the system, to not be either allowed to ride for a predescribed,
predetermined period of time or be off the system for much longer time. And the standards that we had in
place. when I first got here, and in speaking with the people that work on the ground, needed to be
reinforced and be more severe. So that's why we've posed the penalties that we did.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Chief. And I don't want to take up everyone's time and continue to
dialogue. I just-- I feel-- actually, I do want to say on the record-- so what our staff does, in terms of using
that discretion, is going to be under your purview and your leadership. So that's actually not my concern.
I'm talking about contracted staff, security staff, et cetera, who might not have the same kind of education
and guidance that our RTD PD are getting every day. And that's why I personally felt more comfortable
with leaving it as a warning, understanding that if somebody evaded fare, which is, again, a civil violation,
it's also theft, and they did something else against the Code of Conduct, we have other rules to still
suspend them.
But if your only violation is a fares evasion or not being able to produce a ticket or a receipt, I personally
would prefer to keep it at a warning first. That still would allow us to capture the repeat offenders. And
then I won't say anything more to the effect of fare evasion. But that was my concern.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Oh, I appreciate that. The information that we get from paying customers is a sense
of frustration throughout the system for those fares that are either not checked or go unpaid. And the
feedback is so intense that, again, we needed to ensure that we put stronger language in place for those
people to deter folks from not paying fare and not-- I should say to deter folks from not evading fare. Our
folks throughout the system, and the feedback that we've gotten through the Respect the Right in
particular, told us that fare is high on the list of problems that people see. And they want something done
about it.

Again, I want to give the officers the opportunity to address the problem. But we also have security
officers out there. And you're right, they are under the guidance of the police officers out there and our
supervisors that are out there. So I rely heavily on our supervisors to make good decisions about the
issuance of tickets. And I have to rely on supervisors to do that. And I think that assuming that they won't
make good discretionary decisions is probably not the best policy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Thank you. I'm on packet page 173, bottom of 173. When you-- I guess,
first a clarifying question, which is, in the first sentence, we say that everyone issued a Notice of
Suspension shall be entitled to a hearing if requested. And then down at the bottom, we say "all persons
receiving a Notice of Suspension shall receive a notice of a hearing," which implies that the hearing is
being scheduled upon the issuance of the citation. And I just want to clarify which one it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you say where you are again, please?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. The bottom of 173, Section 4, Item 1. The first sentence says every person
issued a Notice of Suspension shall be entitled to a hearing if requested.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: And then down at the bottom, starting with "All persons," which is the second line from
the bottom, in black. "All persons receiving a Notice of Suspension shall receive notice of a hearing." And
I just, before we vote, I just would like to clarify which one it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Thank you very much, Director Dishell. That implies if they request it. So if they
were issued a citation and they said I want a hearing, then they would be provided with the notice of a
hearing.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. I have one other question and then an amendment to, I think, make that language
read the intent that I heard, which is when you apply for a notice-- when you apply for a hearing, is your
suspension "stayed," for lack of a better term, in the gap, or are you suspended-JOYANN RUSCHA: Guilty until proven innocent?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, until you prove that you shouldn't be suspended?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm going to yield the floor to-- sorry-- Deputy Chief Martingano.
STEVE MARTINGANO: I'm sorry, Director. You said does the suspension stay in place while they're
appealing it? Is that what you asked?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yes. So they have 10 days to appeal. It does stay in place when they-- they have
several measures to go ahead and appeal it. They could send it through email. They could write us a
letter. At times they even call up to explain it. But during that time, it is in place until we verify all their

information. We look into it, and then we make a determination after receiving what they want to appeal
and what their reasoning is for appeal.
So for an example, if they say, hey, this is my second time without a fare, but I did buy a fare. I bought it
on my mobile ticketing. We then call over to the mobile people within RTD. Hey, did this person buy a
mobile ticket? They did. Here's their receipt. All that kind of stuff is looked into to make a determination on
their appeal. So we take the appeals to the furthest length that we can to decide if they actually should
have been suspended at that point in time or not. Does that make sense?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. So then after the fact, if it's reversed, they're allowed to ride.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yes. Then if it is reversed, the way we do it is, if they are suspended, through our
records management system, we will put-- let's just say Joe Smith gets suspended. We put an alert on
their name, that if that person is contacted on our property, we could see that they were suspended for 30
days. If their suspension was appealed and it was overturned, we then take that alert out of the system so
that when you contact Joe Smith, you run his name, it does not show that they were suspended anymore.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. That all makes sense. I move to amend the sentence beginning with "All persons"
in Section 4-- top of page 173, Section 4, Subsection 1, "Right to a Hearing," two lines from the bottom,
the sentence beginning with "All persons." I moved to amend that sentence to reinsert "their right to."
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have a motion.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, and to capitalize the N in "notice" and the S in "suspension."
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. "All persons receiving a Notice of Suspension shall receive notice of their right
to a hearing." Is that-BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The N-- "Notice" and "Suspension" are capitalized. And there was a second from
Director Williams. OK. Any comments from staff? No. OK. All right. Are you-- there are two more people
waiting to speak. Are you directing-DOUG TISDALE: Wish to speak on the main motion, support the amendment. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Is there anybody opposed to-- does anybody want to speak to this
Amendment? OK. We'll take a vote at this point. Is anybody opposed to this amendment? Right, Director
Dishell's-- oh, did we get a second? Yeah. OK. Williams was the second. Director Dishell's amendment
passes. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: There. OK. Thank you, Madam Chair, for your patience, and all of you. I believe that, on
the whole-LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not sure you're turned on, or you need to speak to it. There you are. Now it's
working.

DOUG TISDALE: Me, of all people, to do that. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate your
patience and understanding. I think that this section, relative to some of these appeals and so forth, could
benefit from some potential clarification. I note, for example, following the section that Director Dishell-Treasurer Dishell just addressed on page 173, if you turn to page 174, in the Item 2 proceedings, and you
go down to the final paragraph of that, beginning "in the event the person does not appeal" et cetera. And
then it says "the original Notice of Suspension becomes final." It almost implies that there is a stay for the
first 10 days to allow the person to appeal.
Now, as I said, I think this could benefit by some clarification. But I believe we have had an articulated
statement from Commander Martingano-- or Deputy Chief-- and from Chief, addressing how the
procedure is done so that it would not make it inappropriate or impossible to approve this policy tonight.
But we could flag this for better language going forward. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So on page 173, there's new language that reads "it shall
be the suspended individual's burden to prove, by a preponderance of evidence, that they did not engage
in the conduct that resulted in their suspension." So for the audience, generally "preponderance of
evidence" just means it's more likely than not they engaged in that conduct, given that it's pretty hard to
prove a negative. I would like to move that we strike that sentence. An individual cannot come to us and
prove they didn't commit an infraction. Rather, we should be providing the evidence we have against this
individual, even if it is a written statement from staff. And then the RDT PD can decide based on that. But
so I guess I'll make a motion to strike that last sentence in that paragraph, given that you can't prove a
negative.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the sentence is "it shall be the suspended individual's burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that they did not engage in the conduct that resulted in their suspension."
You're moving to strike that? Is there a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: I'll second it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Any discussion? Do you have discussion on this item, Director Williams? OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: I understand, I think, the reasoning behind Director Ruscha's movement. But I think it
could be simplified by the addition of because-- "if they appeal." I think if we add the words, "if they
appeal" at the beginning of that, then it is their burden to prove, by a preponderance of evidence. That's
what this is talking about. And that's what Chief Martingano was talking about, is if they appeal the
suspension and they want to go to a hearing, then they need to provide evidence.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Well, it seemed to me, if they're suspended, then that means that the evidence was
already presented. And then, therefore, they're suspended. And if it's appealed, then it's like, well, no, that
evidence is not correct, or not true, or not legitimate. So I think it probably should stay. But I'd like to hear
from Dr. Fitzgerald on that procedure and why the verbiage is that way. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're just absolutely right. It's exactly what the intent is. You get something in
writing saying that you are suspended. And it's signed by the person that is suspending you. Therefore,
you have the statement as to why you're suspended.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's see. Director Williams, are you-KATE WILLIAMS: That's where I was trying to get.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, you're done. OK, Director Tisdale. Are you done, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We [INAUDIBLE]. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think-- and again, this could benefit from some clarifying
thought perhaps going forward. But I believe that the intent behind Director Ruscha's proposal is
something with which I have sympathy and understand. And as I read it, I have to admit that in my own
mind, reading the bottom of page 173 and the top of page 174, that I read it as it shall be the suspended
individual's burden to rebut by a preponderance of evidence that they engaged in the conduct that
resulted in their suspension. In other words, have the agency present the written citation, the ticket if you
will, the report of something having happened. And then the individual doesn't, in the first instance, have
to prove a negative. But if they're going to rebut, they have to have a preponderance of evidence to rebut.
So that's how I was reading it. For that reason, as stated, I would vote against the amendment, but I do
understand the purpose and think that we could clarify that language going forward. And I assume that
that's probably how, in fact, any such appeals have been processed in the past. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I think-- honestly, I think it should be on the agency. Right? If you're going
to say I was wrongfully cited, it should be on the agency to say, no, this was a correct citation, as
opposed to on the individual to say-- to prove it the other way. But I think I like Director Tisdale's
language. I think it can be improved. But I also-- what does an appeal look like? Is there someone from
Counsel's office? Is it just the individual and the officer and a hearing officer? What is an appeal here?
What does that look like?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Most times, Director, when someone appeals one of these citations-- let's use an
example of-- I think Deputy Chief Martingano may have articulated this. If someone is able to prove that
they did have valid fare, most times we address it before it ever needs to get to the point where it goes to
a Commander of Administration, who is the person that's the deciding body for an actual hearing per se.
It's not set up to be some process where you come before a room like this and you present your case.
The person would come in and bring whatever information they chose to bring in or send us whatever
information that they choose to have us evaluate. And we would be able to then backtrack, use video
investigations or other means to prove or disprove whether this person did what they were allegedly cited
for.
So you have a person who cited them because they saw or had this person act in a certain way, whether
it's a violation of fare or some other problem that they've observed. That is their-- that is the witness. That
is the person that saw some of the behavior. So that would be your first step.
The second step, again, is the person that decides that they want to contest, providing us information to
the contrary and then us researching it. And it normally doesn't take that long for us to research and find
out whether the person did or did not qualify for the citation.

BOBBY DISHELL: And one other question, which is our-- and I know that we-- well, let me rephrase. If we
suspend someone for engaging in a crime as defined in the Colorado Criminal Code, recognizing that we
may not actually be prosecuting that crime, and the person is found to be not guilty, are they still
suspended?
LYNN GUISSINGER: If they're found to be not guilty in a court of law, is that what you're saying?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, in a court of law.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it would be-BOBBY DISHELL: 173. I didn't do my homework.
[LAUGHTER]
[INAUDIBLE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you-BOBBY DISHELL: That's not respondent. It says "evidence that a corresponding criminal case was
dismissed may be considered, but is not dispositive."
JOEL FITZGERALD: So there are, as you know, sir, being an attorney, there are different standards by
which the Justice system may work, as opposed to an administrative penalty. You may or may not be
guilty of a crime, but you may be guilty of a violation that meets our threshold for administrative penalties.
That's why we need both.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I'm going to skip over to Director Guzman, since she hasn't spoken yet-- he.
[LAUGHTER]
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It's good thing I'm two spirit. So it is my understanding, Melanie, and I-- sorry. I'm
sorry. General Counsel Snyder-- this is why I wanted to use the honorifics earlier. I had a conversation
about this very issue because I was dissatisfied with the original questioning, and I wanted to get a
deeper understanding that, because this is administrative law, which is on the civil side of things and not
criminal, that this is above and beyond what we are required to do as an agency for any individual. And
that even offering the right to have an appeal to a suspension is more than we are required to notice,
more than we are required to offer.
And I do feel, although I still have a concern about who's responsible for proving what, that the language
can go back through another committee if we need to. But I am confident that, if maybe she can address
it because I don't know the language that you used. I have the notes written down somewhere. But how
that is more than what we need to do in this moment. I'm sorry. Does that make sense? It's a little
unclear. But I'm fuzzy. It's tired-- I'm tired.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Yeah. No, well said. I don't see anybody else in line. Is that right? I mean, we
have another list of potential Suspension Policy amendments. And it sounds like people have some
questions with the language. I think Director Tisdale had a good point in saying we could move this
forward tonight and still look at it through the Operations and Safety Committee. And it seems like we're
getting to a point where that makes sense.
I'm going to call on Director Bouquet also, since he hasn't spoken yet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I was just going to make the point procedurally, don't we have Director Ruscha'
Amendment that I seconded on the table right now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We just-JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I just wanted to make sure that we make note of that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I did want to note for the record, and everyone
received this in their inbox. The ACLU actually wrote a letter with some concerns about our proposed
code and the Suspension Policy. They specifically stated case law, holding that a transit authority with a
Code of Conduct does have to afford due process. And so I would say that, rather than potentially kicking
a constitutional question down the road, we either settle it today or we-- or we just table this until next
month because I think that these questions are pretty meaty.
That being said, I just have one final question before the vote. Could staff explain why they need this
sentence at the end of the paragraph starting on the bottom of page 173? What is currently missing in our
procedure that you need to have a person prove that they are not guilty of an infraction. Excuse me, a
customer-- a customer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I mean, Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So as Director
Guzman was very accurate in stating, we are in an administrative law context here. This is an
administrative code, not the criminal code. So when we're talking about the way this works, we have a
suspension that's issued. The party that wants to change the status quo, which is the person that they
want to appeal, it's their burden in administrative law to challenge the status quo and explain that they
haven't made the violation.
And just to be clear, I'm not going to quibble here on the record with anything that the ACLU put in their
letter. But I just want to be clear. The standard that we're meeting in the Suspension Policy is meeting the
constitutional standard for procedural due process, which is, notice of an equal opportunity to be heard.
And that's definitely what we're achieving here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I don't buy that we don't have due process obligations just because this is
an administrative procedure. But again, I still did not get the answer to my question as to why this
sentence is needed. The suspension is done without a hearing. So that is an immediate consequence.
And a person loses their right to transit at that point.
So I understand what you're saying. In an appeals process, the appealing party might have to prove a
fact. This is all about a set of facts. But one of those facts could be you are providing no evidence that I
committed this infraction. So I understand that the burden is generally, in a civil proceeding, related to
fact. That's not what this sentence says. It says a person has to prove a negative, which-- I mean, do we
expect our customers to just videotape their whole transit experience just in case someone says they
committed an infraction so they can prove us wrong otherwise?
And if I may, if we have a complaint against an operator or one of our staff or one of our PD, there is an
investigation. And that person is not reprimanded or given followup education unless we can find some
sort of evidence. That seems appropriate. So I just don't understand why we would, again, ask someone
to prove they didn't do something, provide some kind of evidence they didn't do something. And there's
nothing in this current Suspension Policy or the revised policy that even allows that customer the
evidence we might have against them.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, Madam Chair. Thank you. So to be clear, the party who's suspended is going
to get all of the evidence that is being used against them. So they'll get all the information. If there's video,
if there's a statement from a witness, they're going to see all of that information. So that is provided to
them. That's part of the notice of what you're being-- the reason that you're being suspended.
So they would get all of that notice. And then it's not uncommon to have, just like Deputy Chief was
talking about, he was explaining a situation where a person could say "I didn't actually do what you said
that I did. I didn't evade fair because I actually paid for it. Here's the evidence of that." So it's the same
thing if there were an assault, for example. If they were suspended because they assaulted an operator,
they could say that was not me. I was not the person that was there that day. Or they could say, this is
what happened that day.
I won't get into fanciful analogies. But that's their opportunity to explain why a suspension is inappropriate.
And that's what the Commander of Professional Services has to take into account, any mitigating
information, any additional information that's provided and look at the entire record of what's provided on
appeal.
JOYANN RUSCHA: But if I may, that's not what the sentence says though. So, I mean again, why would
we, as a body-MARJORIE SLOAN: Point of order-- excuse me. You were not recognized by the Chair. We've been
getting a dialogue between you, Director Ruscha, and members of staff. And that's really not appropriate
for a Board meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it would be good to wrap this up if we can. You have a motion. What's your
motion that's on the floor at this point?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah-- to strike the final sentence in paragraph 4-- or excuse me, Section 4, Appeal
of Suspension.

SPEAKER 6: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
SPEAKER 7: Director [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Dr. Williams, you have your-- are you speaking to that?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. I was going to call the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Call the question.
KATE WILLIAMS: I was going to call the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I guess it looks like there's nobody that's still speaking. Are you OK with if we
go to the vote? We don't need to vote on calling the question then. All right. Let's see. Where is my roll. I'll
call everybody. This is for the Amendment to strike that last sentence-- "It shall be the suspended
individual's burden to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, they did not engage in the conduct that
resulted in their suspension." Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director-- Director Davidson has left. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am a no. So the motion fails. There are three Yes votes, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10-- 10 No votes, two people absent. I note that there are a number of other amendments that were sent
out to us. Those, again, could be raised in the Operations and Safety Committee. Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm trying to find my Speak button. Speak. Speak. Yeah, I'd like to reiterate again that I
personally would really like some time to go through what's proposed and understand it so that I could
either get on board or have a justifiable reason for not getting on board. And so I'm, again, offering that
we move this to some later point in time. And I don't know procedurally how to go about doing that other
than to make the statement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I think that if you-- if someone wants to call the vote on the amendment to-- on
your motion to pass the amended version, that again, we have your agreement to look at these. Or we
could do them a different way if we want to. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do want to applaud the Operations and Safety
Committee for being willing to take this up because there are, as we have said, some tweaks here and
there. We just addressed one of them, where as I said, I in reading this rule, said it's to rebut rather than
to prove. So I understand that. And I think these should be given careful attention. That said, I want to see
a Suspension Policy in place tonight to accompany the new Respect the Ride Code of Conduct that we
have just adopted. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So it sounds like these amendments would also be looked at, Chair of the
Operations Committee, Director Williams, that we would also look at that during our next Operations
Committee. OK. I also want to point out, I don't think they've formally been introduced tonight either. They
have not been formally introduced.
LYNN GUISSINGER: They have not, right?
JULIEN BOUQUET: No one's formally introduced them yet.
SPEAKER 8: Make the motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: So the motion on the-- I'm sorry. May I speak?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: So the motion in front of us now is to adopt the staff changes for now. so that we have
something to work forward with. And then at the Operations and Safety Committee, we will work on
amendments to what we have voted on tonight.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Well said.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hoping we can move to a vote pretty quickly here. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And not to belabor it, but I'm just hoping we don't have to deal with both
the Code of Conduct change amendments and the Suspension Policy both on the same day in the
Operations and Safety Committee. Can we maybe put it into two? Because I mean if-- well, Madam Chair,
just if you don't mind, if we're going to entertain 15 amendments on the Code of Conduct change and
another x number-- five more, I don't know how many-- are going to maybe materialize between now and
that time, plus potentially, we may have amendments from-- staff may say, you know what, we heard
some discussion, or maybe there was an amendment that we thought we need to change. Could we just
not do this all on the same day? Just a suggestion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that that's a suggestion that will be well taken and considered by your Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: I was just going to say, it's up to the Operations Chair's discretion, I believe, if we
would take it on. So I think that might be a conversation offline.
KATE WILLIAMS: Unfortunately, I expect that we will have other items beyond just this at the Operations
and Safety Committee.
BOBBY DISHELL: This can probably be taken offline.
KATE WILLIAMS: And based on what we have seen in the last couple of months, we may have a lot of
other items. So I would be happy to split them into two meetings, if the people who proposed them are
amenable to that, so that we have-- because we will have had time to look at them before that. And
hopefully, we'll be able to go through them quicker. But I'm happy to take it on any way you look at it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. To the previous Director's question, I guess I would just
say that's probably why we voted to divide the question. Tonight we are passing up to-- I don't know-- 54
changes to our code. I would ask my colleagues to not stifle discussion tonight and just, instead of voting
to call the question, to just permit, at least for the public, a few more amendments that I would like to
make.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There is a motion to call the question. But that was for the previous amendment, I
think. So there's a-- I guess there's a request to make some amendments. Were you calling the question
on the original motion from Director Williams?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, that's my motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Motion to call the question-- second from Tisdale? OK. All in favor-DIRECTORS: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All opposed.
DIRECTORS: Nay.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, that means three Nay votes and 10 Yes votes. And so we are calling the
question. OK. This is to adopt the Code of Conduct amendments as amended by-- service suspension,
as-JOYANN RUSCHA: Staff-proposed changes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The staff-proposed changes. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a Yes. There are 12 Yeses, and one No, and two absent. Motion passes.
Now, there is a motion on the table to adopt the Service Suspension Policy as amended. Oh, and that
also included-- this also includes Director Dishell's amendment. And I guess I need either to take
discussion or another motion to call the question.
KATE WILLIAMS: I move to call of the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. All in favor of calling the question.
DIRECTORS: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All opposed. OK. [LAUGHS] So the vote is 12 For, one against. The nay vote is
Director Ruscha-- two absent. We are moving to the vote on adopting the Suspension Policy. Director
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE TISDALE: Yes
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a Yes. That is 12 Yeses, one No. The No is Director Ruscha. The motion
passes. And there are two people absent. All right. We still have one more item, which-- let's see. The
final item-KATE WILLIAMS: It's on the top of page 178.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I've got my little script here. I'm just looking for it. The final action is to declare June
28th is Ride with Pride Day. It's recommended by RTD Directors Ruscha, Guzman, and Dishell that the
Board of Directors adopt a resolution to do the following-- One, proclaim June 28th as Ride with Pride
Day; two, request RTD Administration to apprise the Board of Directors of its vision for the 2024 Ride with
Pride Day and any related Pride Month initiatives no later than March 1, 2024. Do we have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have Director Guzman moving, and Director Bouquet is the second.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chairman, point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: In referring to the written notification from the three Directors-- and I ask this because I
simply don't know. I think this may have been addressed at the Executive Committee meeting. And so I
was not a part of that until the second half, when I was able to monitor that meeting. But the

recommended action simply says to proclaim June 28 as Ride with Pride Day and then to request RTD
Administration to proceed with certain activities. But what was presented to the Board for inclusion, i.e.
the written notification that the three Directors signed, was to adopt a resolution supporting both the
establishment of a queer cultural district in the City and County of Denver and the declaration by the
Board of June 28. Was that original notification amended by the three Directors in the Executive
Committee?
I think, just for the sake of the record, it would help.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe that the original notification was amended by the three Directors,
requesting that the Executive Committee accept that amendment. Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. Again, just to keep a clear
record.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think that the way it was sent out is the-- well, this language is what was
passed by the Executive Committee. All right. We have a motion and a second. Are there discussion? Is
there discussion? Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. So, we don't often do proclamations. In fact, I asked our Board
Office staff to tell me how many proclamations we've done in the past. And since 2015, we've done four.
Every one of them directly related to the provision of transit services. This proclamation doesn't do much
of anything, really. I mean, I don't mean to be offensive in that regard. But it's just a proclamation that this
is Ride with Pride Day.
Now, we were also provided with a memorandum from Board Office staff about an award-winning social
media campaign adopted and put in place by our General Manager and her team, called "Colorado
Proud," that recognizes and celebrates not just one community of interest but many. It recognizes Black
History Month, Women's History Month, Black Women's History Month, Asian-American and Pacific
Islander Heritage Month, Jewish American Heritage Month, LGBTQ+ Pride Month, Hispanic Heritage
Month, Italian Heritage Month, Emotional Wellness Month, Native American Heritage Month.
This proclamation is repetitive in that regard, in that it wants a proclamation to recognize this day and this
community, when they're recognized consistently by RTD. I just-- I don't get it. It also has no fiscal note.
But all of the examples they give about what other transit agencies have done involve spending money-wrapping buses and doing all kinds of things. And there's no talk about where that's coming from in the
budget. So because of all of those reasons, I will not support this item, not because I don't support the
community. I don't support this item. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I, Madam Chair, I'll go ahead and yield to the others before I comment. OK.
Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to put on my Pride-- Pride stuff here. So, as the
members may know, about a half a million folks packed into the City and County of Denver just a short

few days ago and had a wonderful celebration for Pride Festival. And as an out gay man myself, I have to
say that I had a wonderful time.
Thank you to the General Manager. Thank you to all of our drivers, and operators, and mechanics, and
staff, and everybody at RTD who transported half a million people, some of whom drove a car, to be fair,
but many of whom took transit. And so I know that was a Leviathan effort on their behalf. So thank you.
And so I'm kind of struggling with this resolution. I believe it is a conflict of interest for me. And therefore,
I'm going to abstain on it. Much as I internalize and use, every single day, the concepts of justice, and
equity, and diversity, and inclusion, as a person who has been over years as an activist and person who's
been elected and has done so much in the community and, currently in my job on a daily basis,
implementing those standards of Jedi, I just think that it is not up to this Board to impose and
micromanage our General Manager and staff in this regard.
Similar to what Director Buzek is saying, we have a brand. And the brand includes all of the different
communities that he mentioned. And I believe that this resolution can actually be fairly seen as exclusive
and not inclusive. Because, are we going to do a resolution for all the rest of them? And arguably, we
should. But what about also any other community that's not listed, somebody who's not included? And
therefore, that does trouble me.
And I think another point to make is, no matter what the vote is today on this resolution, it has no
reflection, similar to what Director Buzek is saying, has no reflection, whether they're Yes or No or
Abstain, that we're not disrespecting any Board member. We're not disrespecting anybody in the
LGBTQIA2S+ community. We are actually trying to do what's the best policy and what we normally do in
these circumstances.
So I just have to say thank you to Director Ruscha for bringing up this discussion. However, it tears me
that it is not-- that we're not able to move forward with this. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have a brief statement I want to make, and that is that RTD serves everyone equally.
We don't discriminate on race, religion, sex, immigration status, or anything else. Everybody rides. And
members of the Board of Directors are non-partisan elected officials, whose purpose is to affect
transportation policy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Catlin, and then I'm hoping we will go to a vote.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I agree with Director Williams. And I've said this before, I really would like
us to get back to looking at all of our decisions through the lens of, are we providing good, safe
transportation, public transportation. And I believe that this is a little bit outside of that scope. And along
with Director Buzek, I probably will be a No vote, but that does not in any way detract from my admiration
for you, Director Rosenthal, in your very, very articulate speech. I was very impressed. Thank you, very
much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Seeing no one else in the queue, I'm going to move to a vote. OK. Director
Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. I yielded my time to others, so I didn't realize I was taken out of the queue.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, gotcha. OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. So I guess I would ask folks to refer to packet page 178, which is
the accompanying memo to this item. And if you go to page 179, it clearly outlines how this aligns with
our strategic plan, namely community value, customer excellence, and employee ownership. We did
speak with staff. And I will let our GM/CEO speak to, it if she would like, or if the-- excuse me-- the Chair
would recognize her. But in Executive Committee, we did not get-- we did not get those concerns from
staff that were shared here with the Board.
And then, I actually do have an amendment to this that was asked for by community members and was
agreed upon by the sponsors. I don't know if staff has it, but I believe I handed them a copy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What's your amendment?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Should I just read it? May I just read it? Thank you. All right. So the amendment
would add to the "whereas" Section, where it would insert a paragraph at the end-- "Whereas the
members of the LGBTQIA2S+ community using RTD services, being disproportionately targeted with
aggressive, intimidating, and/or violent behavior" still remains. And additionally, it adds a paragraph under
the "be it resolved" section that says, "The Board adopts a strong position against aggressive,
intimidating, and/or violent behavior being targeted at members of the LGBTQIA2S+ community using
RTD services and resolves to make education and enforcement a priority in accordance with the latest
RTD Code of Conduct."
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're adding all of that to the recommended action?
[INAUDIBLE]
JOYANN RUSCHA: To the resolution. If I may approach the bench, I could hand this to you, Madam
Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm trying to figure out where it's added. Oh, under the "whereas?"
BOBBY DISHELL: So this would go here. And this would go-- no, this is the wrong thing. But whatever.
This is Director Rosenthal's amendment. That didn't get brought. But this would go here or as an-[INAUDIBLE]
BOBBY DISHELL: So it would go on the-- if you scroll down, I think.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't see all the whereases on this recommended action. I don't see a
proclamation.
[INAUDIBLE]
BOBBY DISHELL: At the very bottom.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. There it is.
BOBBY DISHELL: So the "whereas" would go there, and the "be resolved" would go at the bottom. Or
does it have an and? No. So the "be resolved" would either go first or second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right. More discussion? [LAUGHS] We got buses to catch soon, or it's going
to be too late here. So-BOBBY DISHELL: So, there's been a-DOUG TISDALE: Point of order-- is that a motion, and is there a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: No, there's no second yet.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I'd like to thank Mr. Bamber, who wrote this. I have the email that he sent to
Director Ruscha, and which she replied, these were OK'd by us. So I don't know who the "us" is. But I'm
not in favor of this, and will not be supporting it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of the amendment?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. No. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I think this changes the whole texture of this action item. And again, and I
hate to say it, an 11th-hour amendment, it's disrespectful to the rest of the Board. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And just to echo what was said earlier, it amounts to a poison pill on this
proposal. We're trying to keep this positive and uplifting and everything. And this is a tragedy that the
folks in our community, in my community, my community, who are being attacked. But this is-- we have
already-- I mean, I appreciate the sentiment. I appreciate the sentiment that we should not have anybody
attack anybody. What do you think we've been doing for the past number of hours with the Code of
Conduct and the Suspension Policy? You know? But we have a system. You know, we have Colorado
Proud.
We have people who are being uplifted. We've got former speaker Ferrandino. We've got the Governor
Jared Polis. We have Larry Meisel from the Jewish community. We've got Fran Campbell from the
AAPIHM community. And can we focus on the current plan? And this just comes across as distracting
from the messaging that we have already set forth.
And if our Directors would like to work on making changes to that Colorado Proud brand, which has been
done, by the way, in collaboration with Colorado Historical Society, Colorado Public Library, private
individuals. And that RTD staff from the Communications and Engagement Department, they partner with
Civil Rights to assess and select subjects for each featured month. You know, let's not bind our CEO and
our Marketing Department, when we already have a plan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Let's focus on the plan. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for your thoughtful feedback. I appreciate that you all look at this is not
an exclusive thing. It was trying to be inclusive. Director Dishell, Director Ruscha, shall we withdraw this?
It sounds like it's going to fail. Let's be honest.
BOBBY DISHELL: Well, [INAUDIBLE] let's vote. Put it to a vote.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Then let us call the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: You've got to vote on the amendment first.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yep.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We've got a calling the question on the amendment first. Do we have-- does
everyone-- who would like to call of the question?
KATE WILLIAMS: Me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All in favor of calling the question on the amendment.
DIRECTORS: Aye. Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Anyone opposed. All right. The amendment is this language that was sent
by Mr. Bamber, I guess. So, I guess I should call the roll. Find it here. All right, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a No on the amendment. So, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, No's. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
Yeses. Have to have eight votes to pass anything. So the Amendment doesn't pass. So may w call the-just want to call the question on the main motion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Hey.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry, just a procedural point of order. Can we get confirmation that, in order to
pass an amendment, we need eight Directors currently.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's in the statute.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It says we need eight Directors to pass a resolution, not an amendment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that right?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just like we don't need eight Directors to pass something in committee either.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Ruscha is correct. That, the requirement of eight
votes, is for formal action.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Then, there were seven Yes-- seven Yes votes and six No votes. No votes are
Buzek, Catlin, Guissinger, Tisdale, Whitmore, and Williams. So the amendment passes. So the motion,

as amended, is there-- did you want to speak? Should we call the question? Are you done, Director
Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I would just like to say thank you for this discussion. I really appreciate it. For
whatever it is worth, I did take other Directors' amendments to this into consideration. And that's reflected
in the motion in front of you right now. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director-- so this is a vote on the motion, the recommended action to adopt
this resolution now as amended. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Broom, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: no
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am a Yes. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Abstain.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Abstain. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7-- let's see. So there are only five Yes votes. There are only seven
No votes, but there are only five Yes votes. So this motion does not pass. All right. Oh, let's see.
Unless anybody objects, I'd like to skip the report of Director activities tonight. Is that OK?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, I just want to make one point that it really applies to the Code of Conduct.
A comment was made that we just passed a Code of Conduct that does not proscribe criminal activity,
such as taking drugs on transit. I would advise that Director to look at paragraph 48 of the Code of
Conduct. That's all I have. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right. And then are there any other matters?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: I do have one other matter I'd like to bring up. It is my understanding that the Board
Office, unilaterally, without consultation with the Board, has banned all food in this room. I'm not in favor
of our having dinner in this room, quite honestly. I think it sends a bad message to the public. And it looks
awkward, at best. And so a number of years ago, we said, we will have dinner, if we choose to eat it,
upstairs. But the notion of not being able to have a snack is something that I think the Board Office acted
inappropriately.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just address that. I don't think that came from the Board Office. I think that came
from our People Power, Ms. Pileggi, and our Legal Counsel. I think it could be revisited. But that was a
decision-- I do not believe that was a Board Office decision.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. I appreciate that clarification. And I would suggest that our People
Power, who are incredibly well respected, loved, appreciated, cherished, and treasured beyond my ability
to describe, should also know that the Board gets to set its own rules in the boardroom. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Anything else? All right. We have a motion to adjourn?
DOUG TISDALE: So move.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: We are adjourned.
DOUG TISDALE: Well I knew that was going to go down.

Deborah Richardson, Executive Director
Taylor Pendergrass, Director of Advocacy and Strategic Alliances

June 26, 2023
SENT VIA EMAIL
Members of the Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District (RTD)
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Re: Vote NO on or Amend Code of Conduct and Suspension Policy Revisions
Dear Board Members:
The ACLU of Colorado has reviewed the proposed revisions to the Code of Conduct and Service
Suspension Policy and urges you to vote NO on the proposed changes or heavily amend those
changes as discussed herein.
Code of Conduct
Many of the proposed revisions to RTDs Code of Conduct encourage profiling and selective
enforcement of the code against black and brown individuals, individuals with disabilities, and
individuals experiencing homelessness. The following code revisions should be rejected or
amended to address these issues:


#16 - Intentionally exhibiting violent or seriously disruptive behavior that disturbs
threatens the reasonable comfort safety of other customers or RTD personnel.
o U. S. Department of Transportation ADA Regulations state the following
regarding involuntary, non-violent behavior that is disability-related and which
does not pose a direct threat (such as involuntary verbal outbursts):
It is not discrimination under this part for an entity to refuse to
provide service to an individual with disabilities because that
individual engages in violent, seriously disruptive, or illegal
conduct. However, an entity shall not refuse to provide service to an
individual with disabilities solely because the individual's disability
1

results in appearance or involuntary behavior that may offend,
annoy, or inconvenience employees of the entity or other persons.
49 C.F.R. Sec. 37.5(h) (emphasis added).
o The proposed reasonable comfort standard is too broad. It covers behaviors that
are protected by the ADA, as described above, and invites reports from customers
and enforcement by RTD personnel on unlawful groundse.g., racism or other
kinds of discrimination. RTD should amend this provision to apply to violent or
seriously disruptive behavior that jeopardizes the safety of others only.


#23 - Strike or amend as follows: Possessing or transporting large items that
unreasonably restrict the reasonable and safe movement of customers on or around transit
vehicles and facilities.
o This rule should be stricken because Rule #33 already covers the intent behind it
in a more narrowly tailored way.
o The term large items is broad enough to encompass many items that are
protected under law, such as a wheelchair. It also invites selective enforcement of
the provision against individuals with disabilities or individuals who are or are
perceived to be experiencing homelessness. For example, it is likely to be
enforced against a person carrying bags with their belongings who appears to be
experiencing homelessness but is unlikely to be enforced against a traveler
bringing suitcases to the airport.



#15 - Intentional littering (including spilled food or liquids)
o Amend to add an intentionality or knowledge requirement to avoid penalizing
accidents.



#29 - Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while so significantly and
severely impaired by the consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs that the customer is
unable thus impacting the ability to safety safely function in a transit system
environment.
o As a matter of public safety and public policy, individuals who are impaired
should be encouraged to take public transportation instead of driving. RTDs
Code of Conduct should be focused on, and already does prohibit, destructive
behaviors that may result from such impairment. Thus, this provision should
either be stricken or should be amended to prohibit only instances of intoxication
that make an RTD customer unable to safely function in a transit system
environment.
o As written, the provision encourages selective enforcement against some
individualssuch as those who are low-income, black, brown, or are perceived to
be experiencing homelessnessand not otherssuch as individuals heading
home from a Colorado sporting event after drinking.
2



#33 - Blocking or impeding the safe and convenient boarding, exiting, or use of an aisle,
elevator, escalator, pathway, door, or stairway. Interfering with the operations or facilities
maintenance in a way that poses a danger or unreasonably impedes a customers
movement (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4). This section is
subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV.
o Amend to clarify that both sentences of this provision are subject to ADA
reasonable modification.



Strike new addition listed after #36 - Occupying or remaining on RTD property where
the totality of the circumstances indicates that an individual is not using RTD services,
contracting lawful business, engaging in protected speech, or otherwise exercising a
fundamental right.
o Any legitimate aim of this addition is already covered by the other rules of the
Code of Conduct. This addition invites selective enforcement and encourages
RTD personnel to profile and make pretextual stops of individuals.



#38 - Using any wheeled device in an intentionally unsafe manner that could cause
injury to others (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV).
o As written, the proposed rule could violate the rights of people whose manual
dexterity is impacted by their disability.

In this vein, the following provisions are currently not subject to revision but should be amended
as follows:


#4 - Intentionally failing to obey any request from RTD to stand behind warning strips
(including yellow tactile strips) or within other safe locations on RTD vehicles or
property (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV).
o Amend to include ADA accommodation qualifier. A customer may
unintentionally fail to obey a request from RTD by reason of disability if, for
example, they have difficulty seeing the warning strips or other physical
indicators, have difficulty hearing or understanding a request, or have difficulty
ambulating.



#34 - Intentionally failing to clear a designated wheelchair/mobility device area upon
request without reasonable justification (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see
Code Section IV).
o This provision should be amended to account for those instances in which an
individual with a disability may be unable to hear, understand, or comply with
such a request. Consider, for example, a person who is hard of hearing and does
not know such a request was made or a person whose wheelchair battery has died
and they are unable to move the chair from its current position.



#43 - Putting shoes/feet up on any seat in an RTD facility or vehicle unless it is
medically necessary (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV).
3

o This provision should be amended to account for those instances in which an
RTD customer must elevate their leg or foot due to a disability or medical
condition.


#19 - Knowingly soliciting or otherwise engaging in unwanted conversation with any
other person while such person is a captive audience (i.e., while standing in line for or
riding in a vehicle) once the customer has been made reasonably aware the conversation
is unwanted. This section is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section
IV.
o Any individual should be notified the conversation is unwanted before this
provision is levied against them. This rule must be amended to allow for
accommodation under the ADA of disabilities, which may lead individuals to not
understand social cues or be unable to control vocal outbursts.



#48 - Any illegal activity under any applicable federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or
regulation, that impacts the operation, use, or enjoyment of RTD services, including but
not limited to assault; menacing; theft; possession of illegal drugs that are illegal under
both state and federal law; counterfeiting; littering; vandalism; hindering public
transportation (CRS 18-9-114); and endangering public transportation (CRS 18-9-115).
o Possession of marijuana, which is legal under state law, should not be an
enforcement priority for RTD. Crimes that are unrelated to RTDs provision of
transportation services should not constitute a violation of its Code of Conduct.



#49 - Intentional failure to comply with a reasonable request from an RTD employee or
representative related to RTD operational policies (subject to ADA reasonable
modification; see Code Section IV).
o Amend to account for the impact of disabilities on the ability to hear, understand,
and comply with requests made.



#11 - Consuming any alcoholic beverage or marijuana or possessing an open container
of any alcoholic beverage or marijuana in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property.
o Marijuana is legal under state law, so RTD should not restrict the mere possession
of marijuana on its buses and trains.

Suspension Policy
We support RTDs attempts to make public transit safer for all passengers. However, RTDs
proposed suspension policy implicates procedural due process concerns, is not evidence-based,
and will most severely punish those Coloradans who need RTDs services the most.
Depriving an RTD customer of their access to public transit raises significant procedural due
process concerns. The Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, within which the State of Colorado falls,
has recognized a protected property interest in access to public transportation under the
Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Brown v. Eppler, 725 F.3d 1221, 122526 (10th
4

Cir. 2013). In Brown, the Tenth Circuit held that a regional transit authority with a code of
conduct structure much like that of RTD had created a constitutionally protected interest in
access to its transit services:
Analyzed under the appropriate analytical framework, whether Brown has a
protected property interest in continued access to MTTA public transportation
depends upon whether the MTTA's rules sufficiently constrain its own discretion
to deny service in any particular instance. We conclude they do. The MTTA
publishes a set of Transit Policies along with its quarterly route guides for MTTA
customers. The transit policies provide that the Coach Operator or other Tulsa
Transit Staff will enforce the rules outlined here on Tulsa Transit's properties, and
that [b]y violating any of these policies [a rider] may be banned from Tulsa
Transit. . . . . Because the MTTA has limited its own discretion to ban riders to a
set of clearly defined circumstances, Brown has a legitimate claim of entitlement
to access to MTTA transportation so long as he complies with its rules and
regulations, and, hence, a protected property interest under the Due Process Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
725 F.3d at 1227.
Because customers have a protected interest in their access to RTDs transit services, RTDs
suspension proceedings must provide sufficient process in order to constitutionally deprive a
customer of that access. It is doubtful that the proposed suspension policy meets that threshold.
As RTDs governing body, you have a responsibility to ensure that RTD policies and programs
are free from discrimination. Your goals should be to reduce, not increase, interactions between
RTD Transit Police Officers/Transit Security Officers and RTD passengers, and to implement
data-driven solutions to increasing public safety for passengers. RTD has provided no evidence
that this suspension policy will have any deterrent effect and has offered no information on how
it would be enforced without violating the civil rights and civil liberties of public transit users.
RTD should take immediate steps to adopt non-police approaches to safety, several of which
have already been successfully implemented by other transit agencies, like diverting funds for
non-police attendants with experience in de-escalation tactics and crisis intervention to prevent
unwanted behavior in Portland, and LAs Public Safety Advisory Committee. Other alternatives
also lie within law enforcement agencies, like Denvers STAR program.
The potential collateral consequences of this suspension policy are extremely high. Many riders
rely on RTD to move about their community and to access basic needs and critical services.
Now, under this proposed policy, RTD Transit Police Officers and RTD Transit Security Officer
mistakes, biases, and prejudices can deprive people access to what may be their sole way of
getting to work, traveling to care for a sick loved one, attending a court date, or buying groceries.
For those who are re-entering society, enforcement of such a policy can trigger revocation of
parole if the suspension causes them to not get to or from work or home in the required
timeframes, causes loss of a job, or causes the missing of appointments with parole officers. For
immigrants, a criminal trespassing charge if they violate a wrongful suspension can trigger
5

deportation proceedings. For young people, officer abuse of this policy can serve as a gateway to
the criminal legal system.
Enforcement of the proposed rule poses the greatest risk of harm to communities that are already
over-policed: Black and brown communities, low- and no-income riders, unhoused riders, and
young people who rely on public transit. How will RTD Transit Police Officers and RTD Transit
Security Officer determine who has been suspended and who hasnt? Short of requiring everyone
to show an ID upon entering RTD, which would pose its own civil liberties concerns, officers
will have vast discretion to selectively stop people on the pretext of assessing whether theyve
been barred from riding RTD.
To stay true to the commitment of increasing public safety on RTD and for all the reasons
enumerated above, we urge you to vote NO on the proposed changes to the Suspension Policy
and vote NO or amend the proposed revisions to the Code of Conduct as detailed herein.
Sincerely,

Catherine Ordoez
Policy Counsel
Anaya Robinson
Senior Policy Strategist
ACLU of Colorado

6

Deborah Richardson, Executive Director
Taylor Pendergrass, Director of Advocacy and Strategic Alliances

June 26, 2023
SENT VIA EMAIL
Members of the Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District (RTD)
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Re: Vote NO on or Amend Code of Conduct and Suspension Policy Revisions
Dear Board Members:
The ACLU of Colorado has reviewed the proposed revisions to the Code of Conduct and Service
Suspension Policy and urges you to vote NO on the proposed changes or heavily amend those
changes as discussed herein.
Code of Conduct
Many of the proposed revisions to RTDs Code of Conduct encourage profiling and selective
enforcement of the code against black and brown individuals, individuals with disabilities, and
individuals experiencing homelessness. The following code revisions should be rejected or
amended to address these issues:


#16 - Intentionally exhibiting violent or seriously disruptive behavior that disturbs
threatens the reasonable comfort safety of other customers or RTD personnel.
o U. S. Department of Transportation ADA Regulations state the following
regarding involuntary, non-violent behavior that is disability-related and which
does not pose a direct threat (such as involuntary verbal outbursts):
It is not discrimination under this part for an entity to refuse to
provide service to an individual with disabilities because that
individual engages in violent, seriously disruptive, or illegal
conduct. However, an entity shall not refuse to provide service to an
individual with disabilities solely because the individual's disability
1

results in appearance or involuntary behavior that may offend,
annoy, or inconvenience employees of the entity or other persons.
49 C.F.R. Sec. 37.5(h) (emphasis added).
o The proposed reasonable comfort standard is too broad. It covers behaviors that
are protected by the ADA, as described above, and invites reports from customers
and enforcement by RTD personnel on unlawful groundse.g., racism or other
kinds of discrimination. RTD should amend this provision to apply to violent or
seriously disruptive behavior that jeopardizes the safety of others only.


#23 - Strike or amend as follows: Possessing or transporting large items that
unreasonably restrict the reasonable and safe movement of customers on or around transit
vehicles and facilities.
o This rule should be stricken because Rule #33 already covers the intent behind it
in a more narrowly tailored way.
o The term large items is broad enough to encompass many items that are
protected under law, such as a wheelchair. It also invites selective enforcement of
the provision against individuals with disabilities or individuals who are or are
perceived to be experiencing homelessness. For example, it is likely to be
enforced against a person carrying bags with their belongings who appears to be
experiencing homelessness but is unlikely to be enforced against a traveler
bringing suitcases to the airport.



#15 - Intentional littering (including spilled food or liquids)
o Amend to add an intentionality or knowledge requirement to avoid penalizing
accidents.



#29 - Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while so significantly and
severely impaired by the consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs that the customer is
unable thus impacting the ability to safety safely function in a transit system
environment.
o As a matter of public safety and public policy, individuals who are impaired
should be encouraged to take public transportation instead of driving. RTDs
Code of Conduct should be focused on, and already does prohibit, destructive
behaviors that may result from such impairment. Thus, this provision should
either be stricken or should be amended to prohibit only instances of intoxication
that make an RTD customer unable to safely function in a transit system
environment.
o As written, the provision encourages selective enforcement against some
individualssuch as those who are low-income, black, brown, or are perceived to
be experiencing homelessnessand not otherssuch as individuals heading
home from a Colorado sporting event after drinking.
2



#33 - Blocking or impeding the safe and convenient boarding, exiting, or use of an aisle,
elevator, escalator, pathway, door, or stairway. Interfering with the operations or facilities
maintenance in a way that poses a danger or unreasonably impedes a customers
movement (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4). This section is
subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV.
o Amend to clarify that both sentences of this provision are subject to ADA
reasonable modification.



Strike new addition listed after #36 - Occupying or remaining on RTD property where
the totality of the circumstances indicates that an individual is not using RTD services,
contracting lawful business, engaging in protected speech, or otherwise exercising a
fundamental right.
o Any legitimate aim of this addition is already covered by the other rules of the
Code of Conduct. This addition invites selective enforcement and encourages
RTD personnel to profile and make pretextual stops of individuals.



#38 - Using any wheeled device in an intentionally unsafe manner that could cause
injury to others (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV).
o As written, the proposed rule could violate the rights of people whose manual
dexterity is impacted by their disability.

In this vein, the following provisions are currently not subject to revision but should be amended
as follows:


#4 - Intentionally failing to obey any request from RTD to stand behind warning strips
(including yellow tactile strips) or within other safe locations on RTD vehicles or
property (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV).
o Amend to include ADA accommodation qualifier. A customer may
unintentionally fail to obey a request from RTD by reason of disability if, for
example, they have difficulty seeing the warning strips or other physical
indicators, have difficulty hearing or understanding a request, or have difficulty
ambulating.



#34 - Intentionally failing to clear a designated wheelchair/mobility device area upon
request without reasonable justification (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see
Code Section IV).
o This provision should be amended to account for those instances in which an
individual with a disability may be unable to hear, understand, or comply with
such a request. Consider, for example, a person who is hard of hearing and does
not know such a request was made or a person whose wheelchair battery has died
and they are unable to move the chair from its current position.



#43 - Putting shoes/feet up on any seat in an RTD facility or vehicle unless it is
medically necessary (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV).
3

o This provision should be amended to account for those instances in which an
RTD customer must elevate their leg or foot due to a disability or medical
condition.


#19 - Knowingly soliciting or otherwise engaging in unwanted conversation with any
other person while such person is a captive audience (i.e., while standing in line for or
riding in a vehicle) once the customer has been made reasonably aware the conversation
is unwanted. This section is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section
IV.
o Any individual should be notified the conversation is unwanted before this
provision is levied against them. This rule must be amended to allow for
accommodation under the ADA of disabilities, which may lead individuals to not
understand social cues or be unable to control vocal outbursts.



#48 - Any illegal activity under any applicable federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or
regulation, that impacts the operation, use, or enjoyment of RTD services, including but
not limited to assault; menacing; theft; possession of illegal drugs that are illegal under
both state and federal law; counterfeiting; littering; vandalism; hindering public
transportation (CRS 18-9-114); and endangering public transportation (CRS 18-9-115).
o Possession of marijuana, which is legal under state law, should not be an
enforcement priority for RTD. Crimes that are unrelated to RTDs provision of
transportation services should not constitute a violation of its Code of Conduct.



#49 - Intentional failure to comply with a reasonable request from an RTD employee or
representative related to RTD operational policies (subject to ADA reasonable
modification; see Code Section IV).
o Amend to account for the impact of disabilities on the ability to hear, understand,
and comply with requests made.



#11 - Consuming any alcoholic beverage or marijuana or possessing an open container
of any alcoholic beverage or marijuana in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property.
o Marijuana is legal under state law, so RTD should not restrict the mere possession
of marijuana on its buses and trains.

Suspension Policy
We support RTDs attempts to make public transit safer for all passengers. However, RTDs
proposed suspension policy implicates procedural due process concerns, is not evidence-based,
and will most severely punish those Coloradans who need RTDs services the most.
Depriving an RTD customer of their access to public transit raises significant procedural due
process concerns. The Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, within which the State of Colorado falls,
has recognized a protected property interest in access to public transportation under the
Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Brown v. Eppler, 725 F.3d 1221, 122526 (10th
4

Cir. 2013). In Brown, the Tenth Circuit held that a regional transit authority with a code of
conduct structure much like that of RTD had created a constitutionally protected interest in
access to its transit services:
Analyzed under the appropriate analytical framework, whether Brown has a
protected property interest in continued access to MTTA public transportation
depends upon whether the MTTA's rules sufficiently constrain its own discretion
to deny service in any particular instance. We conclude they do. The MTTA
publishes a set of Transit Policies along with its quarterly route guides for MTTA
customers. The transit policies provide that the Coach Operator or other Tulsa
Transit Staff will enforce the rules outlined here on Tulsa Transit's properties, and
that [b]y violating any of these policies [a rider] may be banned from Tulsa
Transit. . . . . Because the MTTA has limited its own discretion to ban riders to a
set of clearly defined circumstances, Brown has a legitimate claim of entitlement
to access to MTTA transportation so long as he complies with its rules and
regulations, and, hence, a protected property interest under the Due Process Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
725 F.3d at 1227.
Because customers have a protected interest in their access to RTDs transit services, RTDs
suspension proceedings must provide sufficient process in order to constitutionally deprive a
customer of that access. It is doubtful that the proposed suspension policy meets that threshold.
As RTDs governing body, you have a responsibility to ensure that RTD policies and programs
are free from discrimination. Your goals should be to reduce, not increase, interactions between
RTD Transit Police Officers/Transit Security Officers and RTD passengers, and to implement
data-driven solutions to increasing public safety for passengers. RTD has provided no evidence
that this suspension policy will have any deterrent effect and has offered no information on how
it would be enforced without violating the civil rights and civil liberties of public transit users.
RTD should take immediate steps to adopt non-police approaches to safety, several of which
have already been successfully implemented by other transit agencies, like diverting funds for
non-police attendants with experience in de-escalation tactics and crisis intervention to prevent
unwanted behavior in Portland, and LAs Public Safety Advisory Committee. Other alternatives
also lie within law enforcement agencies, like Denvers STAR program.
The potential collateral consequences of this suspension policy are extremely high. Many riders
rely on RTD to move about their community and to access basic needs and critical services.
Now, under this proposed policy, RTD Transit Police Officers and RTD Transit Security Officer
mistakes, biases, and prejudices can deprive people access to what may be their sole way of
getting to work, traveling to care for a sick loved one, attending a court date, or buying groceries.
For those who are re-entering society, enforcement of such a policy can trigger revocation of
parole if the suspension causes them to not get to or from work or home in the required
timeframes, causes loss of a job, or causes the missing of appointments with parole officers. For
immigrants, a criminal trespassing charge if they violate a wrongful suspension can trigger
5

deportation proceedings. For young people, officer abuse of this policy can serve as a gateway to
the criminal legal system.
Enforcement of the proposed rule poses the greatest risk of harm to communities that are already
over-policed: Black and brown communities, low- and no-income riders, unhoused riders, and
young people who rely on public transit. How will RTD Transit Police Officers and RTD Transit
Security Officer determine who has been suspended and who hasnt? Short of requiring everyone
to show an ID upon entering RTD, which would pose its own civil liberties concerns, officers
will have vast discretion to selectively stop people on the pretext of assessing whether theyve
been barred from riding RTD.
To stay true to the commitment of increasing public safety on RTD and for all the reasons
enumerated above, we urge you to vote NO on the proposed changes to the Suspension Policy
and vote NO or amend the proposed revisions to the Code of Conduct as detailed herein.
Sincerely,

Catherine Ordoez
Policy Counsel
Anaya Robinson
Senior Policy Strategist
ACLU of Colorado

6

Friday, June 23, 2023
Dear Regional Transit Authority (RTD) Board of Directors 
The Colorado Coalition for the Homeless (the Coalition, CCH) is grateful for RTD Board of Directors
efforts to gather input on the Code of Conduct  Respect the Ride  from community organizations
and members of the public since February. However, the Coalition remains concerned that these new
and revised policies will disproportionately impact people experiencing homelessness.
Transit services are a necessity for people experiencing homelessness to get to medical appointments,
case management meetings, lease ups, work, shelter, and in some cases, take shelter from extreme,
deadly weather. Violations of the Code of Conduct can result in suspension from RTD services, which
could severely disrupt unhoused customers equal access to this critical public service and their journey
to stability.
Every provision should clearly identify how it addresses potential harm to customers and their ability to
use RTD services, the harm to RTD staff and their ability to perform their job duties, or the harm to RTD
property. Currently, several proposed revisions fail to do so and invite profiling and subjective
enforcement based on perceived status or identity.
First, we are particularly concerned about #16, which reads: Exhibiting disruptive behavior that disturbs
the reasonable comfort of other customers or RTD personnel. We ask for this provision to be stricken
entirely. As an alternative, we propose the following language: Intentionally engaging in behaviors that
disrupt customers ability to use RTD services or disrupt RTD staffs ability to perform official duties.
Similarly, one new addition also under the category of disturbances prohibits offensive behavior.
CCH asks for that part of the new provision to be stricken. In both cases, behaviors could be determined
disturbing or offensive simply because a customer in uncomfortable riding near someone who appears
to be unhoused (or low-income, part of the LGBTQ community, or any other perceived status). All
harmful behaviors are already sufficiently covered in other provisions.
Next, a new addition under the category of occupancy seems to specifically target people experiencing
homelessness: Occupying or remaining on RTD property where the totality of the circumstances
indicates that an individual is not using RTD services, contracting lawful business, engaging in protected
speech, or otherwise exercising a fundamental right. This language incredibly vague and gives RTD staff
carte blanche to make pretextual stops, ask inappropriate questions about a customers destination,
background, identity, intentions, and more. Giving staff license to reprimand or remove people from
RTD property because they may believe certain people do not deserve to be there creates a dangerous
precedent and a tiered class system of RTD users.
Finally, #29 was revised to prohibit: Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while significantly
and severely impaired by the consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs, thus impacting the ability to
safety function in a transit system environment. Public transit is a smart, safe option for people who
are impaired by alcohol or drugs. RTD staff should only intervene if a rider is violating another provision

of the Code of Conduct like yelling or engaging in harassment, or they are so impaired that it constitutes
a medical emergency. People heading home from sporting events, concerts, or a boozy brunch are much
less likely to face consequences than their unhoused counterparts. This provision should be stricken or
revised to ensure equal and meaningful application.
It appears that the revised Code of Conduct seeks, in part, to prevent people experiencing homelessness
from being visible on RTD property to increase ridership. Homelessness is a community-wide problem
that will not be solved by selectively removing unhoused people from certain public spaces. It is obvious
that the problem is growing and not enough is being done to prevent and resolve homelessness in the
Denver Metro area. Most librarians, restaurant owners, and transit operators never expected to be on
the front lines of this crisis, but that is the reality we are facing. Rather than creating and enforcing
regulations targeting this population, RTD should invest in training on trauma informed practices, deescalation techniques, and harm reduction strategies and expand the team of individuals dedicated to
connecting unhoused riders with meaningful resources. With the right approach, RTD can be a safe,
welcoming, valuable resource for the entire community  housed and unhoused.

Sincerely,
Cathy Alderman
Chief Communications and Public Policy Officer
calderman@coloradocoalition.org

Aubrey Wilde
Advocacy Program Director
awilde@coloradocoalition.org

Subject: RTD Board Members + Respect the Ride Amendments to the Code of Conduct
Date: Saturday, June 10, 2023 at 6:26:50 PM Mountain Daylight Time
From: Susan Simpson
To:
Stuart Summers
CC:
Michael Simpson
Dear Stuart,
I wanted to express the strong support of our neighborhood, Central Pla:e Valley Auraria, and our
organiza?on, CPV-Auraria RNO, for the Respect the Ride amendments to the Code of Conduct. As residents of
CPV-Auraria, we are intricately connected to RTD's transit system. Unfortunately, over the past few years, we
have witnessed the nega?ve behaviors plaguing RTD vehicles and facili?es.
We are grateful for the eorts made by RTD, your Transit and Deputy Police Chief and others to address these
issues and improve the situa?on in our neighborhood. However, problems persist not only in our area but
also in other regions served by RTD. To eec?vely address these ongoing challenges, we strongly urge you to
adopt and enforce the proposed amendments rigorously. To keep riders and our environment safe, clean and
respecOul, we request that you prohibit:
 Unauthorized presence aSer hours
 Ea?ng (unless medically required)
 Disrup?ve behavior or harassing behavior of any kind (e.g spiWng, violent or profane language,
inten?onally soiling seats or areas, exposure or nudity)
 Animals, except those permi:ed by law
 Obstruc?on of access
 Transporta?on of large or combus?ble items
 Using more than one seat when rides are full
 Being intoxicated or under the inuence of drugs while riding
 Skateboards, skates, bikes, scooters, and similar items onboard or at facili?es
By implemen?ng and enforcing these amendments, RTD can take a signicant step toward care for your
passengers. We appreciate your a:en?on to this ma:er and your commitment to ensuring the well-being
and sa?sfac?on of RTD riders.
Thank you for considering our neighborhood's perspec?ve, and we look forward to seeing posi?ve changes
that benet our community and the broader RTD transit system.
Warmly,
Susan Simpson
CPV-Auraria Neighborhood Associa?on

June 27, 2023
Lynn Guissinger
Board Chair, Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Board of Directors, Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear RTD Board Chair Guissinger and RTD Board Directors,
On behalf of the Denver Streets Partnership, a coalition of community organizations advocating
for people-friendly streets in Denver, I am writing to express continued concern about the
proposed changes to the RTD Code of Conduct.
We appreciate that after hearing loud and clear from the community, that RTD took a step back
to hold a public engagement process related to these proposed updates. However, as we
expressed in February of this year, we continue to be concerned about the proposed changes to
the Code of Conduct which remain troubling in both the way they are written to target unhoused
individuals and even more so in the way that they were articulated by the RTD Chief of Police, Dr.
Joel Fitzgerald Sr., at the February 15 Operations and Safety Committee meeting. The changes
that have been made for clarity so far are encouraging, but continue to leave too much room for
officer discretion, which lends itself to the over-policing of specific demographics over others.
We double down on the call we first made in December 2021, along with the Harm Reduction
Action Center and the Denver Task Force to Reimagine Policing and Public Safety, for RTD to
work proactively with Denvers leadership to address root causes of the issues folks reported
during the public engagement process. We urge you to work with the incoming administration to
prioritize this work and continue to revise the proposed changes to the Code of Conduct.
Sincerely,
Molly McKinley
Policy Director
Denver Streets Partnership

June 27, 2023
Board of Directors
RTD
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Delivered via email to: board.office@rtd-denver.com
Subject: Respect the Ride / Code of Conduct vote scheduled for June 27, 2023, meeting

I encourage the board to delay the vote on the Respect the Ride (RtR) program until
August 2023. Although, I completed the survey and was present for a couple of
presentations on the subject. I did not really engage until I received a copy of the side-byside comparison and read it thoroughly. For that I apologize.
It is difficult in my opinion to determine what the purpose is or who RtR is targeted
towards. If, as I assume, it is aimed at the general riding public and has been created to
reduce or eliminate behaviors or activities that passengers have raised concerns about I
feel it is an ineffectual tool for that purpose.




It is far to lengthy and some of the language may be confusing.
o It should be designed in a bullet-point format with short sentences.
 See Exhibit #1
o The most important issues should be at the top.
o It should reflect the behaviors and courtesies that are desired.
o It does not need to cover unlawful acts in any detail if at all.
Terminology needs to be clearly defined.
o The term Possessing or Transporting LARGE for example is subjective.
What does large mean to you. The real issue is the volume of space riders
personal items occupy.
 Stating all carryon items must fit in a riders lap or under the seat
offers a quantitative view of what is expected.
o Service Animal needs to be clearly defined in accordance with ADA and state
statutes.
 A SERVICE ANIMAL is a dog (as redefined in 2015) or miniature
horse (still in the State of Colorado statutes) that is specifically
trained to perform a task for the benefit of a person with disability.
 Companion or comfort animals are specifically identified as pets and
therefore be in an approved pet carrier as with any other animals
being transported on RTD vehicles, properties or facilities.
 Drivers, operators and street supervisors need to be well trained in
the law and how to handle incidents as they arise.

Earl M Lee Jr  Lee.Earl1@Gmail.com  303 994 8932  Littleton CO

Page 2
Drivers and operators also need to be supported by RTD customer
service agents and management who receive complaints from the
public.
Common sense and local laws apply to behaviors like occupying an RTD vehicle or
facility after it is closed, out of service or in restricted areas. This does not need to
be covered in the RtR.
Using a wheeled device in an unsafe manner. What does that even mean?
Riding a skateboard, inline or roller skates, bicycle, scooter, Segway, hoverboard, or
other wheeled personal transportation device (unless used as a mobility aid for
an individual with a disability).
o Gives the impression (and opportunity to claim) the are acceptable if
presented as a mobility aid.
o NONE of the items above meet ADA specs for a mobility aid regardless of
who is using it.









in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property. Strollers, non-ridden and nonstraddled bicycles, and wheeled luggage are permitted.
o

Does this infer that strollers can be boarded on buses without collapsing
first?

o

What about collapsible shopping carts used (legitimately) for grocery
shopping?


What about ones used to transport other non-grocery personal
items?



What about wagons used to transport personal items.

Some verbiage needs to be placed around these very real situations along
with support for drivers, operators and street supervisors and clear
(internal) training and policies.
Intentionally occupying more than one seat.
o The word intentional is used in several points. How is occupying multiple
seats, or soiling the seats with food, liquid, etc. not intentional?
o



The list goes on hence the request to delay the vote.
Here are my priorities. Ones I feel can and should be addressed.
1. Safety
a. Driver from physical abuse
b. Passenger safety from abuse physical, verbal or otherwise
c. Vehicle and facility safety such as not blocking any access points or aisles.
i. A common problem on buses is people sitting in the disabled
securement area with items in front of them encroaching into the
walkway.
2. Consistency of rule and policy application by drivers/operators
a. Specifically fares and strollers.

Page 3
b. When one driver/operator allows these, and another does not, confusion is
created not only for the affected customer but any and all within hearing
range.
c. The term well the last guy let me is very common.
3. Responsibility and Enforcement
a. Often, I hear Security will handle it.
i. Based on the size of the coverage and available staff security cannot
handle the incidents that occur.
ii. Some enforcement needs to begin at the door with drivers/operators
having both the responsibility and authority for enforcement.
4. Passenger comfort
a. All riders expect and deserve to feel comfortable when using RTD.
5. Dissemination of the information.
a. Not everyone can retrieve information from the web.
b. No one is going to actively look for what I cant do.
c. Print though less prevalent is still a viable communication tool.
d. Signs and banners at major stops effectively reach large audiences for a low
cost per contact.
The three things I hear most often when discussing RTD services with others are.
 You cant depend on them.
 I dont feel safe on the buses and trains.
 They do not (or no longer) offer services in my area when I need them.
o Abandoned routes and less frequent service.
In summation, again I respectfully encourage the RTD Board of Directors to postpone the
vote on Respect the Ride for at least 60 days. And that an ad hoc committee be created
immediately comprised of RTD staff including some from the group who have worked so
hard in this one along with other active, interested contributors such as myself and
members.
Thank you in advance for any consideration you may give to postpone the vote on Respect
the Ride. I look forward to being of assistance.
Regards

Earl M. Lee, Jr.
Cc: Gabe Christie RTD

Respect the Ride  2023

Exhibit #1

RTD strives to provide customers with a safe, stress-free, comfortable environment for their
transit needs. This Respect the Ride (formerly Code of Conduct) has been created to define
RTD's expectations of passengers and guests to help support their goals of safety and comfort.

Respect the Ride
Common Sense Guidelines

2. Be ready to board when the vehicle approaches.

LY

1. A valid fare is REQUIRED to ride any RTD vehicle or when in a Fair Paid zone.
3. Secure bicycles and electric (no gas powered) scooters in the bike rack on the front of

ON

buses.

4. designated space. Secure them where possible. Passengers using the light rail service
must stay with their personal Transport vehicles.

5. Have fare or Proof of Fare in hand as you enter the vehicle (bus).
buses, facilities & fare paid zones.

W

6. Present Proof of Fare readily when requested by RTD authorized personnel on all trains,

VI
E

7. Let exiting passengers get off the vehicle before entering.
8. Allow passengers using wheelchairs, walkers or other ADA certified devices to board
first.

RE

9. Wheelchairs, walkers and other ADA compliant devices have priority for boarding from
High-Block (ramp). Bicycles, scooters, skateboards, etc. are NOT permitted to use the
High-Block.

FO
R

10. If seated in a designated handicap seating or securement area relocate voluntarily to
accommodate elderly and disability passengers.

11. Limit carry-ons and personal belongings to what can fit in your lap, under your seat, or
in overhead bins & designated luggage storage areas when available.

12. Personal items including packages, bags, collapsible shopping carts, luggage, pet
carriers, etc. are not permitted to extend into the designated aisleway.
13. Service Animals (dogs only) as defined in ADA are permitted in RTD facilities, vehicles
and properties. Must be 1) trained to assist the boarding passenger and 2) remain on a
leash.
14. All other animals including those identified as companion or comfort animals must be
secured in an appropriate carrier.

Comments from Earl Lee | June 2023

Page 1 | 2

Respect the Ride  2023
15. Do not block the entranceway. Move quickly to an available seat or appropriate standing
area.
16. Smoking, vaping or use of any other tobacco is prohibited on vehicles, stations and
where posted.
17. Refrain from cursing or making comments that might be offensive to fellow passengers
or that could provoke a verbal or physical altercation.
18. All passengers must exit vehicles at the final stop of all bus and train routes with all of

LY

their personal belongings.
19. Restrooms, where available, are considered Paid Fare zones. Only passengers with a
valid Proof of Fair are permitted to use them. They are to be used ONLY for their

ON

intended purposes - bathing, clothes washing, sleeping, etc. are not permitted at any
time.

20. Food being transported on RTD vehicles must be in closed containers. Consumption of

VI
EW

food on vehicles is prohibited except when medically necessary.

21. Liquids such as water, coffee, soft drinks, etc. may be consumed but need to be in a
spill-proof container.

22. Consumption of alcoholic beverages at any time on RTD vehicles, facilities and
properties is strictly prohibited.

RE

23. Expulsion from RTD vehicles, facilities and properties. Anyone found willfully violating
ant RTD policies, local, state and federal laws are subject to removal from any or all
vehicles, facilities and properties. Revocation of the access to RTD services may be

FO
R

permanent for extreme or repeated violations.
a. Possession or use of any illegal substance
b. Instigating or prolonging any violent activity

Personal Safety Suggestions
24. Heads Up around buses, trains, bus stops, stations, train platforms
25. Be aware of your surroundings.
26. See Something  Say Something
a. Transit Watch app

Comments from Earl Lee | June 2023

Page 2 | 2

From: Fritz Jnker <fritz@fritzjunker.com>
Sent: Monday, May 8, 2023 12:23 PM
To: Bobby Dishell <Bobby.Dishell@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: RTD Proposed Code of Conduct - A warning from a Portland 'evacuee'
Hi Bobby,
My wife and I have recently relocated (or more accurately, evacuated) to Denver (LoDo), after a three-year search for a
new city to replace Portland, Oregon, where we were living in the central business district for the past 15 years. Our
condo was on the main Portland mall, with Trimet (our RTD) light-rail, streetcars, and buses all at our front door. We
choose LoDo because of the fun, walkable, and relatively clean and orderly downtown, to replace what we had
lost. Seeing previous images of the Union Station RTD transport center during COVID, I can tell you had those unsafe
and unclean conditions of still been present, we would not have moved to Denver.
I have read the proposed new Code of Conduct, and although it may not be perfect, I highly recommended you approve
it. Im sympathetic that this may be a difficult decision for you, with so many moving parts, and responsibility to
represent so many.
A similar Code of Conduct was recommended in Portland in roughly 2015, with businesses and residents seeing an
increase in illicit, dangerous, and inappropriate behavior occurring on all transit modes. The conduct recommendations
were largely gutted, and those limited provisions subsequently not well enforced. The result was a worsening over time
of behavior, to the point that most downtown Portlanders stopped useship of these modes altogether for their
safety. Now buses, trains and streetcars run downtown empty, with ghosts of a more pragmatic and responsible time as
the only passengers. Its really sad, as I remember taking the streetcar and train to a from sporting events. No one does
that anymore in Portland. All that expensive infrastructure is going to waste, and people are getting back in their cars.
The condition of the Portland we escaped was horrifying - dead bodies in the streets, sexual conduct in the open, gangs
competing with weapons for camping territory, no 9-1-1 response, a 500% gun violence spike in 2022. Not a pretty
sight, and not accurately reported in the media. We left for our physical safety. These were all self-inflicted wounds of
poor public policy, well in motion before the pandemic and 2022 riots.
I wish you the best of luck in your RTD role, and thank you for serving your community - I know from experience its not
often fun, but it can be rewarding.
Sincerely,
Fritz Jnker
1735 19th Street, Unit 5C
Denver, CO 80202

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as public comment to the RTD Board Meeting, June 27th, 2023.
June 27th, 2023
Lynn Guissinger, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
ATTN: 2023 Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy Revisions
Declaring June 28th as Ride with Pride Day
Taylor Swift Concerts at Mile High Stadium
Dear Chair Guissinger,
2023 Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy Revisions
Greater Denver Transit notes with some incredulity that, despite an extensive customer, community and
employee engagement process which yielded 743 comments, not one change has been made to the proposed
Code of Conduct or Suspension Policy, both of which are now being presented to the Board for approval. This
naturally raises some concerns about whether RTD harbors a genuine desire to act on the feedback received.
To create the most robust public conversation within our means, RTD Director Ruscha and Greater Denver
Transit hosted a focus group on Thursday, June 22nd to review and examine the Respect the Ride proposed
Code of Conduct. In addition to our urbanist partners connected to the Denver Streets Partnership, we had
special guests from the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless (CCH) and American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)
who contributed highly valuable insights. We urge the agency to review the letters these two organizations
have sent in under separate cover and revise the proposals accordingly.
While there was wide acknowledgment of the challenges RTD faces in restoring a welcoming environment at
Union Station and elsewhere on the system, there was a consensus that two major changes could (a) protect
RTD from facing legal repercussions from language that risks selective enforcement and (b) appeal for the
resources required to actually implement the code.
First and foremost, ambiguous language remains in place that could result in outcomes of discrimination based
on selective enforcement from words or phrases such as offensive, demand is high and totality of the
circumstances which are wide open to interpretation. We urge the Board to remove such ambiguous
language from the entire code, and instead adopt wording specific to antisocial behaviors such as targeted
harassment, vandalism, littering, loud music, and drug use (including smoking).
Most concerningly however, the consensus view of the focus group was that the rider experience will be
virtually unchanged with the adoption of a new Code of Conduct due to RTDs vastly insufficient mental health,
outreach, and behavioral enforcement resources. This leads us to doubt the agencys ability to remove repeat
offenders who display aggressive, intimidating, violent and antisocial behaviors which are already prohibited
under the current version of the Code of Conduct.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

GDT urges a resolution from the Board of Directors and Management addressed specifically at the agencys
City and State partners: one that explicitly acknowledges the gap between RTD's ambitions to secure a safe
and welcoming transit environment and the reality of their capabilities to address the degraded civic
environment surrounding much of the transit system.
We urge that this resolution make specific and measurable requests for support from city partner personnel
including the provision of social workers, mental health professionals, addiction specialists and law
enforcement to provide a genuine alternative to individuals present on the RTD system because they feel they
have no other place to go. RTD's system will not feel meaningfully more safe and welcoming until city partners
step up and support their transit agency with the support peer agencies have benefitted from across the
country.
Finally, we see the updated Code of Conduct as just one of the many steps that will be required for RTD to
undertake in order to truly provide a safe and welcoming transit environment. RTD cannot count on the launch
of the new code as something that will meaningfully change rider or operator perceptions about safety and
respect aboard RTD; this will require further effort and resources from both inside and outside the agency.
Declaring June 28th as Ride with Pride Day
Greater Denver Transit supports the recommendation by RTD Directors Ruscha, Guzman, and Dishell that the
Board of Directors adopt a resolution declaring June 28th as annual Ride With Pride day.
However, it is widely acknowledged that the RTD system is a place where members of the LGBTQIA2S+
community are at a higher risk of experiencing targeted aggressive, intimating, and violent behavior compared
to most other spaces in the Greater Denver Metro area.
Because of this, GDT also supports the Board amending the motion to adopt a strong position against
aggressive, intimidating and / or violent behavior being targeted at members of the LGBTQIA2S+ community
using RTD's services and also the Board resolving to make education and enforcement a priority in
accordance with the latest RTD Code of Conduct.
Taylor Swift Concerts at Mile High Stadium
Greater Denver Transit would like to bring to the Boards attention that Friday July 14th & Saturday July 15th
are projected to have high ridership demand due to the Taylor Swift concerts being held at Mile High Stadium
and the Colorado Rockies hosting the New York Yankees at Coors Field on those dates. In particular the
ridership boosts transit agencies have experienced from Taylor Swift fans (Swifties) have become the subject
of numerous stories in the national press.
GDT urges RTD to communicate their plans to handle this demand well in advance, including adding extra
cars to E and W Line trains, possibly running limited C Line trains, and the fact that light rail service now runs
until 2am at weekends. GDT would also like to make RTD aware that substandard performance on these event
days such as canceled trains will show the agency in a poor light when compared to its peers at a national
level.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Best Regards,

Richard Bamber
Cofounder, Greater Denver Transit

James Flattum
Cofounder, Greater Denver Transit
CC:

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

From: Flattum, James
Sent: Tuesday, June 27, 2023 11:11 AM
To: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTDDenver.com>
Subject: Advertising Wraps on RTD Buses and Trains
Dear RTD Directors and Staff,
I am writing to express my support the RTD Board to adopt a policy that prohibits advertising wrap from covering bus or train
windows.
One of the best features of RTD buses & trains is their large windows which allow you to admire the beautiful state of
Colorado as you sit back & enjoy the ride. In addition, being able to see out of the vehicle is a big aid in helping riders identify
their stop to get off at.
Unfortunately, some RTD vehicles have advertising wrap which prevents this as it covers the vehicle side from top to bottom.
This cheapens the experience for riders & is not in line with a quality transit experience or a welcoming transit
environment, which RTD claims it aims to provide. Advertising wrap over windows can also pose a safety issue as it reduces
the riders overall view of their surroundings.
Therefore, I request that the RTD Board adopts a policy that prohibits advertising wrap from covering bus or train windows.
Yours sincerely,
James Flattum

1

June 12,2023
Re: Respect the Ride, Amendments to the Code of Conduct
Dear Mr Summers,
The LoDo District Inc, a non-profit Registered Neighborhood Organization, strongly supports the
proposed amendments to RTDs Code of Conduct. They are common sense requirements that
any good public transit service should have. Downtown, and our Lower Downtown
neighborhood depend on efficient, and attractive transit, perhaps more than any other
neighborhood in the city.
Not to be able to define and enforce prohibitions against fare-avoidance, unwanted
personal intrusions, and disruptive behavior on public transit and within transit facilities
would ruin the effectiveness and desirability of such transit and be disastrous to our
neighborhood. We urge the RTD Board to approve these Respect the Ride amendments
to the Code of Conduct.
Sincerely,

Dick Farley, Co-Chair
LoDo District Board of Directors

Marty Steinberg, Co-Chair
LoDo District Board of Directors

Ellen Wilensky,
LoDo District Vice President

Lilly Djaniants
LoDo District Co-Chair Urban Design Committee

Laurie Helmick
LoDo District Treasurer

Fabby Hillyard
LoDo District Past Board Co-Chair

Jarrod Perrott
LoDo District Secretary

Bar Chadwick
LoDo District Past Board Co-Chair

Steve Galpern
LoDo District Chair Membership Committee

June 6, 2023
RTD Board Members and the Respect the Ride Amendments to the Code of Conduct
I write to share our neighborhoods support for the Respect the Ride amendments to the Code of Conduct.
Our neighborhood, LoDo, and our organization  LoDoNA  the Lower Downtown Neighborhood Association,
include the heart and soul of RTDs transit system. Over the past 4 years we have daily seen the worst
behaviors in RTD transit vehicles and facilities. Thankfully, with attention from RTD, your Transit Police Chief
and Deputy Transit Police Chief and others, things have gotten better in our neighborhood.
Yet, there are still behavior problems here and elsewhere in areas served by RTD that should be addressed by
you. Two means to address these ongoing issues include your adoption of these amendments and then
enforcement of them.
As a transit agency, we look to RTD for safe public transportation. We and others do not look to RTD for
shelter and public health and welfare. Other agencies have those responsibilities. Do not assume those. Do
not dilute RTDs purpose. Keep riders safe and adopt the amendments, including


















Requiring purchase of a valid fare
Required exing when the fare has expired, or the final desnaon is reached
Prohibit unauthorized presence aer hours
Do not allow eang on a transit vehicle (unless medically necessary)
Restrict disrupve behavior
Eliminate any kind of harassing behavior
Prohibit language that is violent, profane or is sought to provoke a breach of the peace
Do not allow animals on transit (other than allowed by law)
Prohibit obstrucons  parcularly of those with disabilies
Limit transportaon of large items
Restrict on transport of combusble items
Limit use of more than one seat  when seang is limited or high use periods
Restrict being drunk or high while using transit
Do not allow use of skateboards, skates, bikes, scooters and more in transit vehicles or facilies
Prohibit sping
Prohibit intenonally soiling a seat or area
Restrict nudity and exposure

Thank you from your neighbors!
Sincerely,

Jerry Orten, President, Lower Downtown Neighborhood Association (LoDoNA)

Tuesday May 23, 2023

Regional Transportation District (RTD) Board
1660 Blake St.
Denver, CO 80202
Re: RTD Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program
We are writing to you to share our support of the Zero Fare for Youth pilot program. As a
nonprofit organization, RootED Denver is committed to ensuring every child in Denver has
the opportunity and support to achieve success in school, college and their chosen career.
We believe transportation plays a significant role as a barrier for student success.
Gentrification in Denver has resulted in families being pushed away from their preferred
school, forcing some families to commute long distances to ensure their students can
receive a high-quality and stable education.
RootED Denver believes that students, schools and communities thrive when they have
access to tools and resources to drive change. The Zero Fare for Youth pilot program can
serve as a significant solution to alleviate the cost of commuting for underserved families.
This pilot program will provide students with access to more academic options,
extracurricular activities and sports programs.
As part of our equity mission, RootED creates welcoming spaces for communities to build
partnerships and elevate their voice through community-driven change models. The RTD
fare study and equity assessment clearly outlined the transportation challenges faced by
minority and low-income communities. The assessment also involved community feedback
and solutions to address the current transportation challenges.
RootED strongly supports the Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program. If executed properly, it will
address the current inequities of school transportation affecting Denver Public School
students. We look forward to learning more about the implementation of the pilot program
and how we can collaborate to ensure the program reaches all eligible students.
Feel free to reach out if you have any questions. Thank you in advance for your
consideration.
Sincerely,

Patric Donovan, Managing Partner
Latia Herderson, Partner, Communications and Strategic Initiatives
Ambar Suero, Partner of Community Partnership and Advocacy
Ashley Martinez-Doublin, Director of Operations
Victoria Scott-Haynes, Partner of Community Relations and Administration
Erin Kobler, Communications Manager

Friday, June 23, 2023
Dear Regional Transit Authority (RTD) Board of Directors 
The Colorado Coalition for the Homeless (the Coalition, CCH) is grateful for RTD Board of Directors
efforts to gather input on the Code of Conduct  Respect the Ride  from community organizations
and members of the public since February. However, the Coalition remains concerned that these new
and revised policies will disproportionately impact people experiencing homelessness.
Transit services are a necessity for people experiencing homelessness to get to medical appointments,
case management meetings, lease ups, work, shelter, and in some cases, take shelter from extreme,
deadly weather. Violations of the Code of Conduct can result in suspension from RTD services, which
could severely disrupt unhoused customers equal access to this critical public service and their journey
to stability.
Every provision should clearly identify how it addresses potential harm to customers and their ability to
use RTD services, the harm to RTD staff and their ability to perform their job duties, or the harm to RTD
property. Currently, several proposed revisions fail to do so and invite profiling and subjective
enforcement based on perceived status or identity.
First, we are particularly concerned about #16, which reads: Exhibiting disruptive behavior that disturbs
the reasonable comfort of other customers or RTD personnel. We ask for this provision to be stricken
entirely. As an alternative, we propose the following language: Intentionally engaging in behaviors that
disrupt customers ability to use RTD services or disrupt RTD staffs ability to perform official duties.
Similarly, one new addition also under the category of disturbances prohibits offensive behavior.
CCH asks for that part of the new provision to be stricken. In both cases, behaviors could be determined
disturbing or offensive simply because a customer in uncomfortable riding near someone who appears
to be unhoused (or low-income, part of the LGBTQ community, or any other perceived status). All
harmful behaviors are already sufficiently covered in other provisions.
Next, a new addition under the category of occupancy seems to specifically target people experiencing
homelessness: Occupying or remaining on RTD property where the totality of the circumstances
indicates that an individual is not using RTD services, contracting lawful business, engaging in protected
speech, or otherwise exercising a fundamental right. This language incredibly vague and gives RTD staff
carte blanche to make pretextual stops, ask inappropriate questions about a customers destination,
background, identity, intentions, and more. Giving staff license to reprimand or remove people from
RTD property because they may believe certain people do not deserve to be there creates a dangerous
precedent and a tiered class system of RTD users.
Finally, #29 was revised to prohibit: Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while significantly
and severely impaired by the consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs, thus impacting the ability to
safety function in a transit system environment. Public transit is a smart, safe option for people who
are impaired by alcohol or drugs. RTD staff should only intervene if a rider is violating another provision

of the Code of Conduct like yelling or engaging in harassment, or they are so impaired that it constitutes
a medical emergency. People heading home from sporting events, concerts, or a boozy brunch are much
less likely to face consequences than their unhoused counterparts. This provision should be stricken or
revised to ensure equal and meaningful application.
It appears that the revised Code of Conduct seeks, in part, to prevent people experiencing homelessness
from being visible on RTD property to increase ridership. Homelessness is a community-wide problem
that will not be solved by selectively removing unhoused people from certain public spaces. It is obvious
that the problem is growing and not enough is being done to prevent and resolve homelessness in the
Denver Metro area. Most librarians, restaurant owners, and transit operators never expected to be on
the front lines of this crisis, but that is the reality we are facing. Rather than creating and enforcing
regulations targeting this population, RTD should invest in training on trauma informed practices, deescalation techniques, and harm reduction strategies and expand the team of individuals dedicated to
connecting unhoused riders with meaningful resources. With the right approach, RTD can be a safe,
welcoming, valuable resource for the entire community  housed and unhoused.

Sincerely,
Cathy Alderman
Chief Communications and Public Policy Officer
calderman@coloradocoalition.org

Aubrey Wilde
Advocacy Program Director
awilde@coloradocoalition.org

Subject: RTD Board Members + Respect the Ride Amendments to the Code of Conduct
Date: Saturday, June 10, 2023 at 6:26:50 PM Mountain Daylight Time
From: Susan Simpson
To:
Stuart Summers
CC:
Michael Simpson
Dear Stuart,
I wanted to express the strong support of our neighborhood, Central Pla:e Valley Auraria, and our
organiza?on, CPV-Auraria RNO, for the Respect the Ride amendments to the Code of Conduct. As residents of
CPV-Auraria, we are intricately connected to RTD's transit system. Unfortunately, over the past few years, we
have witnessed the nega?ve behaviors plaguing RTD vehicles and facili?es.
We are grateful for the eorts made by RTD, your Transit and Deputy Police Chief and others to address these
issues and improve the situa?on in our neighborhood. However, problems persist not only in our area but
also in other regions served by RTD. To eec?vely address these ongoing challenges, we strongly urge you to
adopt and enforce the proposed amendments rigorously. To keep riders and our environment safe, clean and
respecOul, we request that you prohibit:
 Unauthorized presence aSer hours
 Ea?ng (unless medically required)
 Disrup?ve behavior or harassing behavior of any kind (e.g spiWng, violent or profane language,
inten?onally soiling seats or areas, exposure or nudity)
 Animals, except those permi:ed by law
 Obstruc?on of access
 Transporta?on of large or combus?ble items
 Using more than one seat when rides are full
 Being intoxicated or under the inuence of drugs while riding
 Skateboards, skates, bikes, scooters, and similar items onboard or at facili?es
By implemen?ng and enforcing these amendments, RTD can take a signicant step toward care for your
passengers. We appreciate your a:en?on to this ma:er and your commitment to ensuring the well-being
and sa?sfac?on of RTD riders.
Thank you for considering our neighborhood's perspec?ve, and we look forward to seeing posi?ve changes
that benet our community and the broader RTD transit system.
Warmly,
Susan Simpson
CPV-Auraria Neighborhood Associa?on

June 27, 2023
Lynn Guissinger
Board Chair, Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Board of Directors, Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear RTD Board Chair Guissinger and RTD Board Directors,
On behalf of the Denver Streets Partnership, a coalition of community organizations advocating
for people-friendly streets in Denver, I am writing to express continued concern about the
proposed changes to the RTD Code of Conduct.
We appreciate that after hearing loud and clear from the community, that RTD took a step back
to hold a public engagement process related to these proposed updates. However, as we
expressed in February of this year, we continue to be concerned about the proposed changes to
the Code of Conduct which remain troubling in both the way they are written to target unhoused
individuals and even more so in the way that they were articulated by the RTD Chief of Police, Dr.
Joel Fitzgerald Sr., at the February 15 Operations and Safety Committee meeting. The changes
that have been made for clarity so far are encouraging, but continue to leave too much room for
officer discretion, which lends itself to the over-policing of specific demographics over others.
We double down on the call we first made in December 2021, along with the Harm Reduction
Action Center and the Denver Task Force to Reimagine Policing and Public Safety, for RTD to
work proactively with Denvers leadership to address root causes of the issues folks reported
during the public engagement process. We urge you to work with the incoming administration to
prioritize this work and continue to revise the proposed changes to the Code of Conduct.
Sincerely,
Molly McKinley
Policy Director
Denver Streets Partnership

June 27, 2023
Board of Directors
RTD
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Delivered via email to: board.office@rtd-denver.com
Subject: Respect the Ride / Code of Conduct vote scheduled for June 27, 2023, meeting

I encourage the board to delay the vote on the Respect the Ride (RtR) program until
August 2023. Although, I completed the survey and was present for a couple of
presentations on the subject. I did not really engage until I received a copy of the side-byside comparison and read it thoroughly. For that I apologize.
It is difficult in my opinion to determine what the purpose is or who RtR is targeted
towards. If, as I assume, it is aimed at the general riding public and has been created to
reduce or eliminate behaviors or activities that passengers have raised concerns about I
feel it is an ineffectual tool for that purpose.




It is far to lengthy and some of the language may be confusing.
o It should be designed in a bullet-point format with short sentences.
 See Exhibit #1
o The most important issues should be at the top.
o It should reflect the behaviors and courtesies that are desired.
o It does not need to cover unlawful acts in any detail if at all.
Terminology needs to be clearly defined.
o The term Possessing or Transporting LARGE for example is subjective.
What does large mean to you. The real issue is the volume of space riders
personal items occupy.
 Stating all carryon items must fit in a riders lap or under the seat
offers a quantitative view of what is expected.
o Service Animal needs to be clearly defined in accordance with ADA and state
statutes.
 A SERVICE ANIMAL is a dog (as redefined in 2015) or miniature
horse (still in the State of Colorado statutes) that is specifically
trained to perform a task for the benefit of a person with disability.
 Companion or comfort animals are specifically identified as pets and
therefore be in an approved pet carrier as with any other animals
being transported on RTD vehicles, properties or facilities.
 Drivers, operators and street supervisors need to be well trained in
the law and how to handle incidents as they arise.

Earl M Lee Jr  Lee.Earl1@Gmail.com  303 994 8932  Littleton CO

Page 2
Drivers and operators also need to be supported by RTD customer
service agents and management who receive complaints from the
public.
Common sense and local laws apply to behaviors like occupying an RTD vehicle or
facility after it is closed, out of service or in restricted areas. This does not need to
be covered in the RtR.
Using a wheeled device in an unsafe manner. What does that even mean?
Riding a skateboard, inline or roller skates, bicycle, scooter, Segway, hoverboard, or
other wheeled personal transportation device (unless used as a mobility aid for
an individual with a disability).
o Gives the impression (and opportunity to claim) the are acceptable if
presented as a mobility aid.
o NONE of the items above meet ADA specs for a mobility aid regardless of
who is using it.









in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property. Strollers, non-ridden and nonstraddled bicycles, and wheeled luggage are permitted.
o

Does this infer that strollers can be boarded on buses without collapsing
first?

o

What about collapsible shopping carts used (legitimately) for grocery
shopping?


What about ones used to transport other non-grocery personal
items?



What about wagons used to transport personal items.

Some verbiage needs to be placed around these very real situations along
with support for drivers, operators and street supervisors and clear
(internal) training and policies.
Intentionally occupying more than one seat.
o The word intentional is used in several points. How is occupying multiple
seats, or soiling the seats with food, liquid, etc. not intentional?
o



The list goes on hence the request to delay the vote.
Here are my priorities. Ones I feel can and should be addressed.
1. Safety
a. Driver from physical abuse
b. Passenger safety from abuse physical, verbal or otherwise
c. Vehicle and facility safety such as not blocking any access points or aisles.
i. A common problem on buses is people sitting in the disabled
securement area with items in front of them encroaching into the
walkway.
2. Consistency of rule and policy application by drivers/operators
a. Specifically fares and strollers.

Page 3
b. When one driver/operator allows these, and another does not, confusion is
created not only for the affected customer but any and all within hearing
range.
c. The term well the last guy let me is very common.
3. Responsibility and Enforcement
a. Often, I hear Security will handle it.
i. Based on the size of the coverage and available staff security cannot
handle the incidents that occur.
ii. Some enforcement needs to begin at the door with drivers/operators
having both the responsibility and authority for enforcement.
4. Passenger comfort
a. All riders expect and deserve to feel comfortable when using RTD.
5. Dissemination of the information.
a. Not everyone can retrieve information from the web.
b. No one is going to actively look for what I cant do.
c. Print though less prevalent is still a viable communication tool.
d. Signs and banners at major stops effectively reach large audiences for a low
cost per contact.
The three things I hear most often when discussing RTD services with others are.
 You cant depend on them.
 I dont feel safe on the buses and trains.
 They do not (or no longer) offer services in my area when I need them.
o Abandoned routes and less frequent service.
In summation, again I respectfully encourage the RTD Board of Directors to postpone the
vote on Respect the Ride for at least 60 days. And that an ad hoc committee be created
immediately comprised of RTD staff including some from the group who have worked so
hard in this one along with other active, interested contributors such as myself and
members.
Thank you in advance for any consideration you may give to postpone the vote on Respect
the Ride. I look forward to being of assistance.
Regards

Earl M. Lee, Jr.
Cc: Gabe Christie RTD

Respect the Ride  2023

Exhibit #1

RTD strives to provide customers with a safe, stress-free, comfortable environment for their
transit needs. This Respect the Ride (formerly Code of Conduct) has been created to define
RTD's expectations of passengers and guests to help support their goals of safety and comfort.

Respect the Ride
Common Sense Guidelines

2. Be ready to board when the vehicle approaches.

LY

1. A valid fare is REQUIRED to ride any RTD vehicle or when in a Fair Paid zone.
3. Secure bicycles and electric (no gas powered) scooters in the bike rack on the front of

ON

buses.

4. designated space. Secure them where possible. Passengers using the light rail service
must stay with their personal Transport vehicles.

5. Have fare or Proof of Fare in hand as you enter the vehicle (bus).
buses, facilities & fare paid zones.

W

6. Present Proof of Fare readily when requested by RTD authorized personnel on all trains,

VI
E

7. Let exiting passengers get off the vehicle before entering.
8. Allow passengers using wheelchairs, walkers or other ADA certified devices to board
first.

RE

9. Wheelchairs, walkers and other ADA compliant devices have priority for boarding from
High-Block (ramp). Bicycles, scooters, skateboards, etc. are NOT permitted to use the
High-Block.

FO
R

10. If seated in a designated handicap seating or securement area relocate voluntarily to
accommodate elderly and disability passengers.

11. Limit carry-ons and personal belongings to what can fit in your lap, under your seat, or
in overhead bins & designated luggage storage areas when available.

12. Personal items including packages, bags, collapsible shopping carts, luggage, pet
carriers, etc. are not permitted to extend into the designated aisleway.
13. Service Animals (dogs only) as defined in ADA are permitted in RTD facilities, vehicles
and properties. Must be 1) trained to assist the boarding passenger and 2) remain on a
leash.
14. All other animals including those identified as companion or comfort animals must be
secured in an appropriate carrier.

Comments from Earl Lee | June 2023

Page 1 | 2

Respect the Ride  2023
15. Do not block the entranceway. Move quickly to an available seat or appropriate standing
area.
16. Smoking, vaping or use of any other tobacco is prohibited on vehicles, stations and
where posted.
17. Refrain from cursing or making comments that might be offensive to fellow passengers
or that could provoke a verbal or physical altercation.
18. All passengers must exit vehicles at the final stop of all bus and train routes with all of

LY

their personal belongings.
19. Restrooms, where available, are considered Paid Fare zones. Only passengers with a
valid Proof of Fair are permitted to use them. They are to be used ONLY for their

ON

intended purposes - bathing, clothes washing, sleeping, etc. are not permitted at any
time.

20. Food being transported on RTD vehicles must be in closed containers. Consumption of

VI
EW

food on vehicles is prohibited except when medically necessary.

21. Liquids such as water, coffee, soft drinks, etc. may be consumed but need to be in a
spill-proof container.

22. Consumption of alcoholic beverages at any time on RTD vehicles, facilities and
properties is strictly prohibited.

RE

23. Expulsion from RTD vehicles, facilities and properties. Anyone found willfully violating
ant RTD policies, local, state and federal laws are subject to removal from any or all
vehicles, facilities and properties. Revocation of the access to RTD services may be

FO
R

permanent for extreme or repeated violations.
a. Possession or use of any illegal substance
b. Instigating or prolonging any violent activity

Personal Safety Suggestions
24. Heads Up around buses, trains, bus stops, stations, train platforms
25. Be aware of your surroundings.
26. See Something  Say Something
a. Transit Watch app

Comments from Earl Lee | June 2023

Page 2 | 2

From: Fritz Jnker <fritz@fritzjunker.com>
Sent: Monday, May 8, 2023 12:23 PM
To: Bobby Dishell <Bobby.Dishell@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: RTD Proposed Code of Conduct - A warning from a Portland 'evacuee'
Hi Bobby,
My wife and I have recently relocated (or more accurately, evacuated) to Denver (LoDo), after a three-year search for a
new city to replace Portland, Oregon, where we were living in the central business district for the past 15 years. Our
condo was on the main Portland mall, with Trimet (our RTD) light-rail, streetcars, and buses all at our front door. We
choose LoDo because of the fun, walkable, and relatively clean and orderly downtown, to replace what we had
lost. Seeing previous images of the Union Station RTD transport center during COVID, I can tell you had those unsafe
and unclean conditions of still been present, we would not have moved to Denver.
I have read the proposed new Code of Conduct, and although it may not be perfect, I highly recommended you approve
it. Im sympathetic that this may be a difficult decision for you, with so many moving parts, and responsibility to
represent so many.
A similar Code of Conduct was recommended in Portland in roughly 2015, with businesses and residents seeing an
increase in illicit, dangerous, and inappropriate behavior occurring on all transit modes. The conduct recommendations
were largely gutted, and those limited provisions subsequently not well enforced. The result was a worsening over time
of behavior, to the point that most downtown Portlanders stopped useship of these modes altogether for their
safety. Now buses, trains and streetcars run downtown empty, with ghosts of a more pragmatic and responsible time as
the only passengers. Its really sad, as I remember taking the streetcar and train to a from sporting events. No one does
that anymore in Portland. All that expensive infrastructure is going to waste, and people are getting back in their cars.
The condition of the Portland we escaped was horrifying - dead bodies in the streets, sexual conduct in the open, gangs
competing with weapons for camping territory, no 9-1-1 response, a 500% gun violence spike in 2022. Not a pretty
sight, and not accurately reported in the media. We left for our physical safety. These were all self-inflicted wounds of
poor public policy, well in motion before the pandemic and 2022 riots.
I wish you the best of luck in your RTD role, and thank you for serving your community - I know from experience its not
often fun, but it can be rewarding.
Sincerely,
Fritz Jnker
1735 19th Street, Unit 5C
Denver, CO 80202

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as public comment to the RTD Board Meeting, June 27th, 2023.
June 27th, 2023
Lynn Guissinger, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
ATTN: 2023 Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy Revisions
Declaring June 28th as Ride with Pride Day
Taylor Swift Concerts at Mile High Stadium
Dear Chair Guissinger,
2023 Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy Revisions
Greater Denver Transit notes with some incredulity that, despite an extensive customer, community and
employee engagement process which yielded 743 comments, not one change has been made to the proposed
Code of Conduct or Suspension Policy, both of which are now being presented to the Board for approval. This
naturally raises some concerns about whether RTD harbors a genuine desire to act on the feedback received.
To create the most robust public conversation within our means, RTD Director Ruscha and Greater Denver
Transit hosted a focus group on Thursday, June 22nd to review and examine the Respect the Ride proposed
Code of Conduct. In addition to our urbanist partners connected to the Denver Streets Partnership, we had
special guests from the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless (CCH) and American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)
who contributed highly valuable insights. We urge the agency to review the letters these two organizations
have sent in under separate cover and revise the proposals accordingly.
While there was wide acknowledgment of the challenges RTD faces in restoring a welcoming environment at
Union Station and elsewhere on the system, there was a consensus that two major changes could (a) protect
RTD from facing legal repercussions from language that risks selective enforcement and (b) appeal for the
resources required to actually implement the code.
First and foremost, ambiguous language remains in place that could result in outcomes of discrimination based
on selective enforcement from words or phrases such as offensive, demand is high and totality of the
circumstances which are wide open to interpretation. We urge the Board to remove such ambiguous
language from the entire code, and instead adopt wording specific to antisocial behaviors such as targeted
harassment, vandalism, littering, loud music, and drug use (including smoking).
Most concerningly however, the consensus view of the focus group was that the rider experience will be
virtually unchanged with the adoption of a new Code of Conduct due to RTDs vastly insufficient mental health,
outreach, and behavioral enforcement resources. This leads us to doubt the agencys ability to remove repeat
offenders who display aggressive, intimidating, violent and antisocial behaviors which are already prohibited
under the current version of the Code of Conduct.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

GDT urges a resolution from the Board of Directors and Management addressed specifically at the agencys
City and State partners: one that explicitly acknowledges the gap between RTD's ambitions to secure a safe
and welcoming transit environment and the reality of their capabilities to address the degraded civic
environment surrounding much of the transit system.
We urge that this resolution make specific and measurable requests for support from city partner personnel
including the provision of social workers, mental health professionals, addiction specialists and law
enforcement to provide a genuine alternative to individuals present on the RTD system because they feel they
have no other place to go. RTD's system will not feel meaningfully more safe and welcoming until city partners
step up and support their transit agency with the support peer agencies have benefitted from across the
country.
Finally, we see the updated Code of Conduct as just one of the many steps that will be required for RTD to
undertake in order to truly provide a safe and welcoming transit environment. RTD cannot count on the launch
of the new code as something that will meaningfully change rider or operator perceptions about safety and
respect aboard RTD; this will require further effort and resources from both inside and outside the agency.
Declaring June 28th as Ride with Pride Day
Greater Denver Transit supports the recommendation by RTD Directors Ruscha, Guzman, and Dishell that the
Board of Directors adopt a resolution declaring June 28th as annual Ride With Pride day.
However, it is widely acknowledged that the RTD system is a place where members of the LGBTQIA2S+
community are at a higher risk of experiencing targeted aggressive, intimating, and violent behavior compared
to most other spaces in the Greater Denver Metro area.
Because of this, GDT also supports the Board amending the motion to adopt a strong position against
aggressive, intimidating and / or violent behavior being targeted at members of the LGBTQIA2S+ community
using RTD's services and also the Board resolving to make education and enforcement a priority in
accordance with the latest RTD Code of Conduct.
Taylor Swift Concerts at Mile High Stadium
Greater Denver Transit would like to bring to the Boards attention that Friday July 14th & Saturday July 15th
are projected to have high ridership demand due to the Taylor Swift concerts being held at Mile High Stadium
and the Colorado Rockies hosting the New York Yankees at Coors Field on those dates. In particular the
ridership boosts transit agencies have experienced from Taylor Swift fans (Swifties) have become the subject
of numerous stories in the national press.
GDT urges RTD to communicate their plans to handle this demand well in advance, including adding extra
cars to E and W Line trains, possibly running limited C Line trains, and the fact that light rail service now runs
until 2am at weekends. GDT would also like to make RTD aware that substandard performance on these event
days such as canceled trains will show the agency in a poor light when compared to its peers at a national
level.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Best Regards,

Richard Bamber
Cofounder, Greater Denver Transit

James Flattum
Cofounder, Greater Denver Transit
CC:

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

From: Flattum, James
Sent: Tuesday, June 27, 2023 11:11 AM
To: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTDDenver.com>
Subject: Advertising Wraps on RTD Buses and Trains
Dear RTD Directors and Staff,
I am writing to express my support the RTD Board to adopt a policy that prohibits advertising wrap from covering bus or train
windows.
One of the best features of RTD buses & trains is their large windows which allow you to admire the beautiful state of
Colorado as you sit back & enjoy the ride. In addition, being able to see out of the vehicle is a big aid in helping riders identify
their stop to get off at.
Unfortunately, some RTD vehicles have advertising wrap which prevents this as it covers the vehicle side from top to bottom.
This cheapens the experience for riders & is not in line with a quality transit experience or a welcoming transit
environment, which RTD claims it aims to provide. Advertising wrap over windows can also pose a safety issue as it reduces
the riders overall view of their surroundings.
Therefore, I request that the RTD Board adopts a policy that prohibits advertising wrap from covering bus or train windows.
Yours sincerely,
James Flattum

1

June 12,2023
Re: Respect the Ride, Amendments to the Code of Conduct
Dear Mr Summers,
The LoDo District Inc, a non-profit Registered Neighborhood Organization, strongly supports the
proposed amendments to RTDs Code of Conduct. They are common sense requirements that
any good public transit service should have. Downtown, and our Lower Downtown
neighborhood depend on efficient, and attractive transit, perhaps more than any other
neighborhood in the city.
Not to be able to define and enforce prohibitions against fare-avoidance, unwanted
personal intrusions, and disruptive behavior on public transit and within transit facilities
would ruin the effectiveness and desirability of such transit and be disastrous to our
neighborhood. We urge the RTD Board to approve these Respect the Ride amendments
to the Code of Conduct.
Sincerely,

Dick Farley, Co-Chair
LoDo District Board of Directors

Marty Steinberg, Co-Chair
LoDo District Board of Directors

Ellen Wilensky,
LoDo District Vice President

Lilly Djaniants
LoDo District Co-Chair Urban Design Committee

Laurie Helmick
LoDo District Treasurer

Fabby Hillyard
LoDo District Past Board Co-Chair

Jarrod Perrott
LoDo District Secretary

Bar Chadwick
LoDo District Past Board Co-Chair

Steve Galpern
LoDo District Chair Membership Committee

June 6, 2023
RTD Board Members and the Respect the Ride Amendments to the Code of Conduct
I write to share our neighborhoods support for the Respect the Ride amendments to the Code of Conduct.
Our neighborhood, LoDo, and our organization  LoDoNA  the Lower Downtown Neighborhood Association,
include the heart and soul of RTDs transit system. Over the past 4 years we have daily seen the worst
behaviors in RTD transit vehicles and facilities. Thankfully, with attention from RTD, your Transit Police Chief
and Deputy Transit Police Chief and others, things have gotten better in our neighborhood.
Yet, there are still behavior problems here and elsewhere in areas served by RTD that should be addressed by
you. Two means to address these ongoing issues include your adoption of these amendments and then
enforcement of them.
As a transit agency, we look to RTD for safe public transportation. We and others do not look to RTD for
shelter and public health and welfare. Other agencies have those responsibilities. Do not assume those. Do
not dilute RTDs purpose. Keep riders safe and adopt the amendments, including


















Requiring purchase of a valid fare
Required exing when the fare has expired, or the final desnaon is reached
Prohibit unauthorized presence aer hours
Do not allow eang on a transit vehicle (unless medically necessary)
Restrict disrupve behavior
Eliminate any kind of harassing behavior
Prohibit language that is violent, profane or is sought to provoke a breach of the peace
Do not allow animals on transit (other than allowed by law)
Prohibit obstrucons  parcularly of those with disabilies
Limit transportaon of large items
Restrict on transport of combusble items
Limit use of more than one seat  when seang is limited or high use periods
Restrict being drunk or high while using transit
Do not allow use of skateboards, skates, bikes, scooters and more in transit vehicles or facilies
Prohibit sping
Prohibit intenonally soiling a seat or area
Restrict nudity and exposure

Thank you from your neighbors!
Sincerely,

Jerry Orten, President, Lower Downtown Neighborhood Association (LoDoNA)

Tuesday May 23, 2023

Regional Transportation District (RTD) Board
1660 Blake St.
Denver, CO 80202
Re: RTD Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program
We are writing to you to share our support of the Zero Fare for Youth pilot program. As a
nonprofit organization, RootED Denver is committed to ensuring every child in Denver has
the opportunity and support to achieve success in school, college and their chosen career.
We believe transportation plays a significant role as a barrier for student success.
Gentrification in Denver has resulted in families being pushed away from their preferred
school, forcing some families to commute long distances to ensure their students can
receive a high-quality and stable education.
RootED Denver believes that students, schools and communities thrive when they have
access to tools and resources to drive change. The Zero Fare for Youth pilot program can
serve as a significant solution to alleviate the cost of commuting for underserved families.
This pilot program will provide students with access to more academic options,
extracurricular activities and sports programs.
As part of our equity mission, RootED creates welcoming spaces for communities to build
partnerships and elevate their voice through community-driven change models. The RTD
fare study and equity assessment clearly outlined the transportation challenges faced by
minority and low-income communities. The assessment also involved community feedback
and solutions to address the current transportation challenges.
RootED strongly supports the Zero Fare for Youth Pilot Program. If executed properly, it will
address the current inequities of school transportation affecting Denver Public School
students. We look forward to learning more about the implementation of the pilot program
and how we can collaborate to ensure the program reaches all eligible students.
Feel free to reach out if you have any questions. Thank you in advance for your
consideration.
Sincerely,

Patric Donovan, Managing Partner
Latia Herderson, Partner, Communications and Strategic Initiatives
Ambar Suero, Partner of Community Partnership and Advocacy
Ashley Martinez-Doublin, Director of Operations
Victoria Scott-Haynes, Partner of Community Relations and Administration
Erin Kobler, Communications Manager

Director Dishell Amendment
Please see the proposed amendment below to rule 16 of the Code of Conduct.
Current rule:
16. Exhibiting disruptive behavior that disturbs the reasonable comfort of other passengers, including
but not limited to disruptively loud talking or mobile phone use (use of mobile phone speakers is
prohibited).
Staffs proposed changes:
16. Exhibiting disruptive behavior that disturbs the reasonable comfort of other customers or RTD
personnel.
Director Dishells planned amendment:
16. Engaging in disruptive behavior that materially interferes with other passengers utilizing or accessing
RTD services or materially interferes with RTD personnel performing official duties.

Director Ruscha/Guzman Amendments

AMENDMENT ONE
Current rule:
1. Being within any RTD fare-paid zone without prior payment of the proper fare.
Staffs proposed changes:
Being within any RTD fare-paid area without prior payment of the proper fare.
Proposed amendment
Motion to strike Rule #1
Rationale
 We do not currently have fare-paid areas. The Board, after having the opportunity to
hear from the public and constituent groups, should provide guidance on rules and
policies if/when that changes (which might need to be specific to certain areas). It is
worthy of its own discussion.
 We have received a lot of concern about this rule because many customers wait until
the vehicle arrives before they activate or purchase a 3-hour pass.
 This rule also invites more confusion over leased spaces such as the Great Hall, which
we do not have control over, but have their own rules for patrons. It simply isnt
necessary at this time.
 This amendment is not intended to change the agencys plan to make certain areas of
DUS paid-only areas.
AMENDMENT TWO
Current rule
2. Riding an RTD vehicle without proper fare or complying with RTD fare payment management
systems (including but not limited to: failure to obtain and keep evidence of payment such as
transfers and tickets; failure to validate a mobile ticket; and failure to tap smart card media in
accordance with RTD procedures).
Staffs proposed changes:
Failing to possess or purchase valid fare when accessing RTDs transit services. Riding an RTD
vehicle without proper fare or complying with RTD fare payment management systems

1

(including but not limited to failure to obtain and keep evidence of payment such as transfers
and tickets;failure to validate a mobile ticket; and failure to tap smart card media in accordance
with RTD procedures).
Proposed amendment (redline)
Failing to possess or purchase valid fare when accessing RTDs transit services. Riding an RTD
vehicle without proper fare or complying with RTD fare payment management systems
(including but not limited to such as failure to obtain and keep evidence of payment such as
transfers and tickets; failure to validate a mobile ticket; and failure to tap smart card media in
accordance with RTD procedures).
Rationale
 What is accessing RTDs transit services if it is not a bus or train? Vague language
invites discontent and conflict with customers.
 Operators have repeatedly told us that fares conflicts can lead to injuries and
disruptions/delays, and customers tell us that vague rules make them feel as if they
have been treated unfairly. Including but not limited to is vague. If we have another
situation to list, we should do so.
 We have heard from customers that sometimes operators do not give them a transfer
ticket when the machine is broken. Note that striking obtain and doesnt remove a
customers responsibility to ask for a transfer.
AMENDMENT THREE
Current rule:
#2 (See above)
Proposed amendment
After procedures in Rule #2, add:
Customers whose sole violation is an unpaid fare, improper use of fare media, or failure
to retain evidence of paid fare will first be given the opportunity to cure their violation
via their own mobile device, with a cash payment, or upon disembarking from an RTD
vehicle unless it is a repeat offense.
Rationale
 Under our stated policy of educate first and provide resources - as well as our
Strategic Plan initiatives of Community Value and Customer Excellence - RTD should

2

look to other transit agencies (such Community Transit in Puget Sound) and explicitly
state our intent to redirect and be a resource.
 Many transit agencies offer the opportunity to cure a violation if you did not pay your
fare or you lost your ticket. People do lose their tickets, and there is nothing that
currently prevents us from bias in judging this situation.
 Just because RTD lacks the technology to allow people to cure a violation with one of
our devices does not mean we shouldnt permit a cure at all.

AMENDMENT FOUR
Current rule:
5. Failing to leave an RTD vehicle once fare has expired or upon reaching the fare zone for
which fare was purchased.
Staffs proposed changes:
Failing to exit an RTD vehicle once fare media has expired or upon reaching its final destination.
Proposed amendment (ADD LANGUAGE)
Failing to exit an RTD vehicle once fare media has expired or upon reaching its final destination.
A fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit or if the service has been delayed or
interrupted in such a way that it would have caused a customer to pay more than originally
required to complete their trip.
Rationale
 We failed to consider that a fare media can expire while youre in transit and it isnt your
fault (e.g, service delays, accidents, bus bridge services on a limited schedule).
AMENDMENT FOUR
Current rule:
N/A
Staffs proposed new rule:
Engaging in harassment, sexual harassment, or bullying. This includes offensive behavior,
unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature, or abusive, repeated conduct directed toward an
individual because of their sex, race, color, national origin, religion, marital status, sexual
orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, ancestry, age, military status, disability, genetic
information, or any other status protected by law.

3

Proposed amendment
Strike and replace with:
Conduct against a person based on protected status and the conduct is sufficiently severe,
pervasive, or persistent that it interferes with or diminishes the ability of a person to participate
in or benefit from the services, activities, or privileges provided by the RTD. This includes
conduct that interferes with an employees ability to ensure a safe transit environment.
Protected status means the real or perceived sex, race, color, national origin, ancestry,
religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression,
pregnancy, ancestry, age, military status, disability, genetic information, or any other
status protected by state or federal anti-discrimination law.
Subjecting any other individual or individuals to harassment, including sexual harassment. This
includes conduct that interferes with an employees ability to ensure a safe transit
environment.
Harassment includes unwelcome derogatory jokes, personal insults, threats, or any
other intentional conduct directed at an individual that a reasonable person would
believe was intended to cause personal offense, injury, fear, or discomfort.
Sexual harassment means unwelcome sexual or gender-based conduct, including
unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, quid pro quo harassment, and
other verbal, nonverbal, or physical harassing conduct of a sexual or a gendered nature.
Rationale
 Offensive behavior is not defined in the original rule proposal; this amendment
addresses the First Amendment concerns raised by constituents and advocacy groups
 Bullying is ill-defined, as is harassment. This amendment clearly states the behavior
we will not permit and by what standard behavior becomes unreasonable.. It also
separates general harassment from hate speech for clarity.
 To provide expansion of the greatest possible protections for riders and staff:
 Amendment includes gender expression, ancestry, and the phrase real or
perceived to provide expansion of protections based on a protected class
 Sufficiently captures one-time incidents and removes the severe or pervasive
standard written in the proposal
 Note: This amendment is intended to strengthen the proposal and provide the maximum
possible protection of our customers and staff without violating the First Amendment.

4

AMENDMENT FIVE
Current rule:
N/A
Staffs proposed new Rule:
Engaging in language that is violent, profane, or calculated to provoke a breach of the peace.
This includes but is not limited to fighting words or threatening language that causes others to
fear for their safety.
Proposed amendment (redline)
Engaging in language that is violent, profane, or calculated to provoke a breach of the peace.
This includes but is not limited to fighting words or threatening language that causes others to
fear for their safety
Rationale
 Not limited to is unnecessary as every other type of conduct has been covered. Clarity
reduces conflict and helps all stakeholders.

AMENDMENT SIX
Current rule:
21. Taking any animal into an RTD indoor facility, onto a vehicle or within a fare paid zone
unless: (1) the animal is intended and trained to assist a person with a disability; (2) the animal
is in training to assist a person with a disability; or (3) the animal is in an appropriate animal
carrier (including locked, standard commercial containers in the underfloor luggage bays of
regional bus coaches). All dogs must have proof of current vaccinations required by the local
jurisdictions in which the animals are traveling.
Staffs proposed changes:
Taking any animal into an RTD indoor facility, onto a vehicle or within a fare paid area unless:
(1) the animal is intended and trained to assist a person with a disability; (2) the animal is in
training to assist a person with a disability; or (3) the animal is in an appropriate animal carrier
(including locked, standard commercial containers in the underfloor luggage bays of regional
bus coaches). All animals must have proof of current vaccinations required by the local
jurisdictions in which the animals are traveling
Proposed amendment (rewrite)
Bringing any animal, including an emotional support animal, onto an RTD vehicle, facility, or
property, unless the animal is in an enclosed carrier and the customer is or will be using RTDs

5

transportation services.
RTD reserves the right to refuse service if an animal is unreasonably loud or disruptive or
interferes with RTDs ability to ensure a safe transit environment.
The requirement to keep an animal in enclosed carrier does not extend to bonafide service
animals as defined under state and federal law, which is (1) an animal individually trained to do
work or perform tasks for people with disabilities, or (2) an animal that is in training to do work
or perform tasks for people with disabilities.
Under state and federal law, RTD reserves the right to refuse service or ask a customer to
disembark if their service dog is is out of control and the customer does not take effective steps
to control it, if it is not housebroken, or if it poses a threat to the health and safety of others that
cannot be reduced to an acceptable level by making other reasonable modifications.
In the event such an incident occurs, RTD will make a reasonable attempt to arrange courtesy
alternative transportation to a customers final destination, provided RTD has the resources to
do so.
All animals must have proof of current vaccinations required by the local jurisdictions in which
the animals are traveling.
Rationale
 This merely provides clarification on what is and isnt a service animal under applicable
law.
 This amendment also educates the public and is written to promote safety, reduce
conflict, and protect the rights of disabled riders and their service dogs.
 Note: RTDs website is not consistent with the Boards published rule. The website
states that animals have to have valid physical rabies tags and does not mention other
immunizations. It also says that a carrier must be a standard commercial container
and must fit on a persons lap (or floor if it does not block the aisle). RTD should clarify
what it thinks the best policy is as it relates to the type and size of the carrier. This
amendment says enclosed carrier to indicate that a carrier has four sides (e.g, not a
purse or open bag).
AMENDMENT SEVEN
Current rule:
N/A
Staffs proposed changes:

6

N/A
Proposed amendment (new rule)
Intentionally misinterpreting a service animal or service animal in training for the purpose of
obtaining the rights or privileges of a disabled person as defined in C.R.S. 18-13-107.7, or
failing to secure a pet in a carrier as required by Rule ____ and that pet causes injury to another
person or animal.
This can be combined with the previous rule, but the motion will be separate.
Rationale
 Misinterpreting a pet as a service animal is a widespread problem and it puts the safety
of others at risk. It is also a misdemeanor in the state of Colorado and cited on RTDs
website.
 This conduct is particularly dangerous to bona fide service animals (which can cost up to
$50,000), as they can become maimed or even die when an untrained animal attacks.
AMENDMENT EIGHT
Current rule:
22. Obstructing passengers with disabilities from accessing features necessary to enable
passengers with disabilities to use transit services such as ramps, lifts, and high blocks.
Staffs proposed changes:
N/A
Proposed amendment
Insert disabled parking spots and adjacent accessible pathways before the word ramps
Rationale
 Parking in a disabled parking spot when you are not legally permitted to is a serious
offense to disabled persons who need that spot to enjoy the rights and privileges of our
services.
 It is the intent to link the disabled parking violation (a civil rights issue) to a specific
penalty in the Suspension Policy.

7

AMENDMENT NINE
Current rule:
Possessing or transporting articles, baggage, or packages (except mobility aids) that restrict the
safe movement of passengers on or around transit vehicles or otherwise disrupting the use of
transit.
Staffs proposed changes:
Possessing or transporting large items that restrict the reasonable and safe movement of
customers on or around transit vehicles and facilities.
Proposed amendment
STRIKE RULE
Rationale
 This is actually already covered in Rule #33 - Blocking or impeding the safe and
convenient boarding, exiting, or use of an aisle, elevator, escalator, pathway, door, or
stairway. Interfering with the operations or facilities maintenance in a way that poses a
danger or unreasonably impedes a customers movement (subject to ADA reasonable
modification; see Code Section 4)
 Focus groups and customers gave us a lot of feedback that we had too many rules that
said the same thing, and the agency stated an intent to remove redundancies.

AMENDMENT TEN
Current rule:
Carrying any weapon, dangerous instrument (including but not limited to switchblade knife,
gravity knife, box cutter, straight razor, razor blade not wrapped or enclosed in a protective
covering, or sword), or any other item intended for use as a weapon, except to the extent and
in the manner authorized by law. Legal firearms may be carried if they are unloaded and carried
in an enclosed container that completely conceals the item from view and identification as a
weapon. This paragraph does not apply to law enforcement personnel or to persons to whom a
concealed-carry license for such weapon has been duly issued and is in force.
Staffs proposed changes:

8

N/A
Proposed amendment
Carrying any weapon, dangerous instrument (including but not limited to switchblade knife,
gravity knife, box cutter, straight razor, razor blade not wrapped or enclosed in a protective
covering, or sword), or any other item intended for use as a weapon, except to the extent and
in the manner authorized by law. Legal firearms may be carried if they are unloaded and carried
in an enclosed container that completely conceals the item from view and identification as a
weapon. This paragraph does not apply to law enforcement personnel or to persons to whom a
concealed-carry license for such weapon has been duly issued and is in force.
Rationale
 Is pepper spray a weapon? What about a taser? (Constituents have asked this question.)
No one has a constitutional right to a taser, but Colorado law permits one in selfdefense. Additionally, we expressly permit firearms on transit and in our facilities.
 How do we know if an item is intended to be used as a weapon?
 If staff would like to reference menacing, they should cite statute (though menacing is
probably already covered in other rules.
 Menacing, CR.S. 18-3-206:
A person commits the crime of menacing if, by any threat or physical action, he or she
knowingly places or attempts to place another person in fear of imminent serious bodily
injury. Menacing is a class 3 misdemeanor, but, it is a class 5 felony if committed:
By the use of a deadly weapon or any article used or fashioned in a manner to
cause a person to reasonably believe that the article is a deadly weapon; or
By the person representing verbally or otherwise that he or she is armed with a
deadly weapon.
AMENDMENT ELEVEN
Current rule:
Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility (subject to ADA
reasonable modification; see Code Section IV).
Staffs proposed changes:
Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility when seating is limited,

9

and customer demand is high. This section is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code
Section IV.
Proposed amendment
Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility when seating is limited,
and customer demand is high. This section is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code
Section IV
Rationale

The amendment is for clarity, not to change the intent. It is based on multiple
constituents and stakeholder groups stating that customer demand is high was
confusing if we already wrote seating is limited. Is there a difference?
AMENDMENT TWELVE
Current rule:
Entering or remaining on RTD property or vehicle while a person is so severely impaired by the
consumption of alcohol or by the taking of any drugs that the person is unable to function
safely in the environment of a transit system.
Staffs proposed changes:
Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while significantly and severely impaired by
the consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs, thus impacting the ability to safety function in a
transit system environment.
Proposed amendment
Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while so significantly and severely impaired
by the consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs that the customer is unable thus impacting
the ability to safety safely function in a transit system environment use RTDs transportation
services.
Customers whose sole violation is of this rule might be asked to disembark, denied service, or
asked to leave RTD property, but they will not be subjected to the Suspension Policy unless it is
a repeated offense.
Rationale
 This is based on customer feedback
 Corrects typo of safety to safely

10

 Impacting invites even more subjectivity and this amendment offers some clarity.
 We do not want to discourage individuals from using RTD when we know that public
transit is part of public safety campaigns, e.g., Dont drink and drive!
AMENDMENT THIRTEEN
Current rule:
Unplugging a plug already being used in an electrical or data outlet, in any RTD vehicle or
facility, to charge a personal device.
Staffs proposed changes:
Unplugging a data or electrical plug already being used in an RTD vehicle or facility
Proposed amendment
Unplugging a data or electrical plug already being used in use by RTD or by another customer in
an RTD vehicle or facility. This section is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code
Section IV.
Rationale:
 This is for the education of staff and customers alike. Customers have expressed
concern about not being able to charge electric wheelchairs, and one customer said in a
forum that she was unable to charge hers at DUS since the outlets have been covered
(and wasnt able to get assistance from staff),
AMENDMENT FOURTEEN
Current rule:
38. Using any wheeled device unsafely (i.e., in a manner that could cause injury to the rider or
other patrons).
Staffs proposed changes:
Using any wheeled device in an unsafe manner that could cause injury to others
Proposed amendment
Using any wheeled device in an intentionally unsafe manner that could cause injury to others
(subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV).
Rationale:
 The proposed rule could violate the rights of people whose manual dexterity is impacted

11

by their disability
AMENDMENT FIFTEEN
Current Rule:
N/A
Staffs proposed new rule:
Occupying or remaining on RTD property where the totality of the circumstances indicates that
an individual is not using RTD services, contracting lawful business, engaging in protected
speech, or otherwise exercising a fundamental right.
Amendment:
Motion to strike
Rationale
 RTD has stated its intent to simplify and combine rules when possible. There is nothing
this new addition does that is not otherwise covered by another rule.
 Rules must be limited to behavior, not appearance or an overly vague definition of what
is not permitted.
 At worst, this looks like justification for a pretextual stop or a situation in which
someone is asked to show their papers, give an address, or justify why they are in a
public space. This goes against the Creating a Welcoming Transit Environment
resolution.

AMENDMENT SIXTEEN
Current rule:
41. Leaving needles in RTD restrooms except in designated Sharps Disposal Containers.
Staffs proposed changes:
N/A
Proposed amendment
Failing to use designated sharps disposal containers to dispose of sharps waste.
Rationale
 Medical sharps waste is not limited to just needles.

12

AMENDMENT SEVENTEEN
Failure to wear footwear, shirts/tops, and pants/shorts/skirts on or in any RTD vehicle or facility
(subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
Staffs proposed changes:
N/A
Proposed amendment
Add: This rule does not apply to children under the age of 5
Add: Customers whose sole violation is lack of shoes or a shirt due to financial insecurity will
not be asked to disembark or be denied service, nor they will not be subjected to the
Suspension Policy unless it is a chronic offense. All customers in violation of this rule will be
educated about this rule, and customers in violation due to financial insecurity will be offered
education about available services to address the issue.
Rationale
 The current rule is not applied evenly, especially in the summer or with children.
 This amendment reduces the potential for conflict between passengers and operators
and furthers our stated intent to create a Welcoming Transit Environment.
 A person should not be penalized on the account of being impoverished.
 RTD is not liable for a persons decision to willfully ride public transportation without
shoes or a shirt.
AMENDMENT EIGHTEEN
Current rule:
48. Any illegal activity under any applicable federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or regulation,
including but not limited to assault; menacing; theft; possession of illegal drugs; counterfeiting;
littering; vandalism; hindering public transportation (CRS 18-9-114); and endangering public
transportation (CRS 18-9-115).
Staffs proposed changes:
N/A
Proposed amendment

13

Any illegal activity under any applicable federal, state, or local law that impacts the operation,
use, or enjoyment of RTD services, including but not limited to assault; menacing; theft;
possession of illegal drugs that are illegal under both state and federal law; counterfeiting;
littering; hindering public transportation (CRS 18-9-114); and endangering public transportation
(CRS 18-9-115).
Rationale:
 We do not need to issue suspensions for jaywalking or infractions not related to
providing transportation. Furthermore, police involvement isnt really warranted for
leaving a potato chip bag behind (though littering is infuriating, we do not even provide
sufficient trash receptacles).
 Possession of marijuana (and psychedelics) is illegal under federal law, but not in
Colorado.
 Vandalism is already a rule.
 Hindering public transportation (CRS 18-9-114); and endangering public transportation
(CRS 18-9-115) is likely already covered in Rules 1-50.

14

Suspension Policy Amendments
Add where appropriate (single amendments)
1. Customers whose sole violation is an unpaid fare, improper use of fare media, or failure
to retain evidence of paid fare will first be given the opportunity to cure their violation
via their own mobile device, with a cash payment, or upon disembarking from an RTD
vehicle unless it is a repeat offense.
Any customer found in violation of any fares-related rule will be given information on
how to apply for RTDs low-income fares program and how to engage with an outreach
worker or social services agency to address any potential financial issues.
2. Customers whose sole violation is of the [cite rule related to drug & alcohol intox as to
impede a persons ability to travel safely] might be asked to disembark, denied service,
or asked to leave RTD property, but they will not be subjected to the Suspension Policy
unless it is a repeated offense.
3. Customers whose sole violation is lack of shoes or a shirt due to financial insecurity will
not be asked to disembark or be denied service, nor they will not be subjected to the
Suspension Policy unless it is a chronic offense. All customers in violation of this rule will
be educated about this rule, and customers in violation due to financial insecurity will be
offered education about available services to address the issue.
4. Add: In considering whether or not to suspend a Customer for violation of the Code of
Conduct, RTD shall consider mitigating actors, including but not limited to:
Age,disability status, severity of the offense, if the offense is a repeated offense,
if the offense resulted in victimization of another passenger or staff, and the transitdependent status of the customer
RE: Staffs revised proposal (single amendments)
1. Keep a warning for first offenses of fares violation - strike up to 14-day suspension
2. Right to a hearing
a. Reject redline proposal except for the word customer
3. Evidence: Insert provision that the customer will be shown evidence RTD has against
them before the hearing

Tai-Shrae Parish
Subject:
Attachments:

FW: Amendments
20230627_RTD_Letter.pdf

From: JoyAnn Ruscha <JoyAnn.Ruscha@rtddenver.com>
Sent: Tuesday, June 27, 2023 5:25 PM
To: Jack Kroll <Jack.Kroll@rtddenver.com>; Board Office <board.office@rtddenver.com>
Cc: Michael Guzman <Michael.Guzman@rtddenver.com>
Subject: Fw: Amendments

These were Ok'd by us and we will intro them.
From: Richard Bamber
Sent: Tuesday, June 27, 2023 4:59 PM
To: JoyAnn Ruscha <JoyAnn.Ruscha@rtddenver.com>
Subject: Fwd: Amendments

JoyAnn,
Amendments below:

Add to 'WHEREAS' section:
WHEREAS the risk of members of the LGBQTIA+ community using RTD's services being disproportionately targeted with
aggressive, intimidating and / or violent behavior still remains.
Add to 'NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT RESOLVED' section:
 Adopts a strong position against aggressive, intimidating and / or violent behavior being targeted at members of the
LGBQTIA+ community using RTD's services and resolves to make education and enforcement a priority in accordance with the
latest RTD Code of Conduct, and

1

