Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Thursday, May 14,
2009
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

May 14, 2009

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Thursday, May 14, 2009 at 5:50 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Vice-Chair Bagley, Directors; Cohen, Pulliam, James, Chacon, Busck,
Tayer, Kemp, Martinez, Daly, O’Boyle, McMullen, Tobiassen, and Brohl.
Board Members
Absent:
Director Christopher
Subject:

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Brian Middleton, Jerry Nery, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Sirois, Cal
Marsella, Sherry Ellebracht, Bill Van Meter, Marla Lien, Cal Shankster,
Dave Genova, Rick Clarke, Henry Stopplecamp, Daria Serna, Scott Reed,
John Shonsey, Greg Straight, Liz Telford, Julie Skeen, Lisa Trujillo, Paula
Perdue and Mike Scott.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – The Denver Post, Ira Schreiber, Matt McDole, Ryan
Clement, Bill Shockly-Owens Corning Paul Courtois-Owens Corning,
Maria Garcia Berry and Roger Sherman.
****

Call to Order
I.

Vice-Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:50 p.m.

Recommended Action
Bill Van Meter indicated that this is an update from the already existing 2003 policy
but adding Commuter Rail. Some key points: identify light rail and commuter rail
technologies, station spacing and speed.
Director Tayer and Director Martinez identified some stakeholders who they feel
should have received this document (i.e. Northwest Parkway, East Corridor and
DIA). Director Tayer requested that stakeholders receive a copy of this tomorrow,
which is May 15th. Bill agreed to do a focus distribution to stakeholders.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Thursday, May 14,
2009
Page 2 of 2

Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy Update
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt this policy, which updates the District’s current established procedures
and guidelines for evaluating proposed new stations on RTD’s existing and planned light
rail and commuter rail lines. Since each potential station and station area is unique, no
one set of guidelines should determine whether a station is appropriate for a specific
site. The criteria described below are meant to serve as a policy framework for issues
that should be considered when planning for and approving new stations. RTD staff will
evaluate each of the criteria, and provide the results for the RTD Board’s information
when considering the approval of a new station. Final determination regarding whether
new stations will be added to light rail and commuter rail lines, and who will provide
associated funding of new stations, will be a Board decision on a case by case basis.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the May 19,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Daly seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously

II.

Other Matters
Downtown Denver Partnership plans on attending the next meeting to give an
update on Mall Paver Program.

III.

Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, June 2,
2009.

IV.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Vice-Chair Bagley declared the meeting adjourned
at 6:02 p.m.

